start question
Why did my mango vodka infusion have a gelatin residue ?
It is almost certain that you do not have a gelatin in your mango infusion : gelatin is formed when an animal connective protein called collagen is hydrated at moderately high temperatures in the presence of water . Instead , what I suspect happened is that the <URL> , a gelling agent present in fruits , including mangoes , has had long enough to dissolve into the liquid phase of your infusion ( it will thicken both water and alcohol ) , making it seem somewhat thicker . Pectin is the same substance , by the way , that makes fruit jellies and jams thicken -- the same effect has happened to your infusion , just over time , instead of from heat processing . Assuming you had a sufficiently high ratio of vodka for the alchohol 's preservative effect to apply , your infusion should be safe .
You need to 1 ) increase the emulsification , and 2 ) reduce the amount of time the sauce is very hot . You can try adding honey or mustard to the sauce , that will improve emulsification . You can also hit it with a stick blender which will do a much better job of breaking it up than can be done by hand . Also it may look ok after a few hours but who knows how much separation is starting to happen at a very small scale and will accelerate when it hits heat . Add the sauce at the last possible moment before plating . It is n't going to benefit from cooking , and it is n't going to marinade into the cooked food , so do n't have it in any longer than it takes for it to warm up . 20 seconds is probably all it will take .
Pre-grated . Do n't use pre-grated cheese for any sauce where consistency matters . Pre-grated cheeses are almost universally coated with cellulose to prevent clumping . This will muck up a good sauce every time . If it 's going into a lasagna or a mac &amp; cheese though , chances are it will go unnoticed by any but the cook .
Ricotta is not supposed to melt , or dissolve , or anything like that . It is made up of protein clumps . The only way it can appear very smooth is if the manufacturer created a cheese where the clumps have been made very tiny mechanically - because chemically , they are still clumps and stay that way after heating . You said that you changed brands . There you have your explanation - your old brand must have been more finely " ground " than the new one , so you are noticing the clumps in the new one , while the ones in the old were too small to be noticed . This effect works in parallel with the gums Batman mentioned .
Soaking beans will not soften them . If done for a very long time ( i.e. , days ) , some beans will eventually begin to sprout or ferment , at which point they will become softer . But that is generally not desirable for basic cooking . Instead , you 'll need to cook the beans to get them to soften . Bring to a slow boil and then simmer until the interior is the desired texture . ( A common test is to take a few beans out on a spoon and blow on them ; if the outside of the bean breaks open a bit when you blow , they are likely soft and cooked through . ) By the way , the main purpose of soaking is to hydrate the seed coat ( the outer covering of the beans ) . Once that happens , the moisture can more easily penetrate the interior when cooked , allowing the beans to soften . If you do n't soak , you 'll simply waste the first part of your cooking hydrating the seed coat . Depending on the type of beans , their age , and other factors , that could increase your cooking time by anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour or so . ( For more details , see my previous answer to another question <URL> . ) Also , do NOT try using an acid . Acids can actually toughen the seed coat , making the beans take longer to cook and soften . This is one of the reasons chili recipes ( for example ) often recommend cooking the beans first , before adding to acidic ingredients like tomatoes . ( Note that cooking times for beans and lentils can vary significantly , depending on type of bean and age . For a mixed bean soup , I 'd expect about 1-2 hours of simmering for pre-soaked beans , and perhaps as many as 3 hours . Older beans can take longer , and I 've occasionally had old batches of dried beans which never quite softened to a consistent texture . ) EDIT : Just to add onto Joe 's great advice from the Dry Bean Council , Harold McGee has this to say about beans which never soften ( from On Food and Cooking ) : " Hard-to-cook " beans ... are normal when harvested , but become resistant to softening when they 're stored for a long time -- months -- at warm temperatures and high humidities . This resistance results from a number of changes in bean cell walls and interiors , including the formation of woody lignin , the conversion of phenolic compounds into tannins that cross-link proteins to form a water-resistant coating around the starch granules . There 's no way to reverse these changes and make hard-to-cook beans as soft as regular beans . And there 's no way to spot them before cooking . Once cooked , they 're likely to be smaller than normal and so may be picked out before serving . McGee also mentions that occasionally you may encounter batches of " hard-seed " beans , which hardened during particularly hot and humid growing conditions . In such cases , the beans will be tough no matter how early they are used ; they may take much longer to cook than usual ( and sometimes may never soften ) .
You need to make sure you use the right measurements when translating recipes from the US to the UK as the UK uses imperial measurements which are different from US measurements . There are also differences in cream fat content and egg sizes . Teaspoons and tablespoons are the same , so do n't worry about them . First , pint measurements , as the UK does n't use cup measurements . The UK pint is 20 % bigger than the US pint , so if you are using UK pints to measure you may be getting ratios wrong . Use Milliliters instead when translating . 1 US Cup is 237ml ( I round up to 240 ) . If you use UK pints as a measure instead of US you wo n't have enough baking powder in the ratio . In fact , I find UK baking powder and bicarb a bit weaker than US powders , so I increase those measurements a bit anyway . What works for me is the first time I make a US recipe in the UK I weigh the dry ingredients and use weights every time I make the recipe after that , I can fine-tune it that way . US light cream is between 10-30 % butter fat , and heavy cream is about 36-40 % . UK single cream is between 10-30 % fat , whipping cream is about 36 % , and double cream is 50 % fat . So if you are right that US heavy cream is UK whipping cream , but mixing 2 parts UK double and 1 part single works just as well as many places do n't stock whipping cream . I doubt that your results come from the cream you are using though , the fat contents are n't that different . One thing that could be different is the flour you use . US and UK flours are n't completely the same . For my biscuits in the UK I buy 00 or purpose milled pastry flour , which is finer and better for pastry than the bog standard stuff . If you ca n't find it pick the flour with the lowest protein content you can find . Hope this helps , let the forum know your results if you can .
Hmm . I would say that pumpkins maybe have a slight bit of acidity , but I would never think of them as distinctly sour . I suppose it could be the variety you are using . Also , taste your stock by itself to make sure it is n't contributing an unwanted sour note . All of that said , it may just be one of those expectation things . We are used to pumpkin in a sweet context , and your brain wants that little bit of sugar there to match the template , so it seems sour without it . If you really want to test this out further , try making a small batch of the same recipe with no spices and plain water to see if it is truly the pumpkin that seems sour to you .
Gelatin works by creating a very fine mesh of proteins , between which the ( hidrophilic ) liquid gets trapped . A mixture of fat and water is n't a liquid . It can be either a rough two-phase mixture , with visible fat droplets swimming around in the water , or it can be an emulsion , with invisibly small fat droplets dispersed through the water . Emulsions appear smooth , e.g. milk . When you try to use gelatine on the mixture , two things can happen . In an emulsion , the fat droplets can be smaller than the protein mesh . Then they get trapped as well as the water , and the result is gelled emulsion , just like you 'd expect . But if you have big globules of fat , they ca n't be trapped between the proteins . So it looks like they got squeezed out of the mesh and bubbled up to the surface , if it had n't been there all along . On the surface , gelatine molecules could n't find each other between globules of fat to crosslink , or maybe the motion of the globules broke any nascent links in the small amount of water between them , so it could n't gel . So the conclusion is : you ca n't set soup/stew with gelatine . ( I know that concentrated stock hardens from its own gelatine , but it has the fat filtered out first ) . On the practical side , if you want to have thick stew juice , you have to use something else than gelatine . It is probably simplest to create an olive oil based roux with the stew juice . Or you can gel with xanthan . Both will result in a " juice " which is creamy , instead of solid wobbly blocks of juice , with xanthan retaining the authentic taste and a roux-based sauce being a novel variation . If it is real jelly you are after , you 'll have to emulsify first and use gelatine after that . Xanthan itself should emulsify well , or you can probably use lecithine . AFAIK , there is no problem to use lecithine and gelatine together , but somebody with more experience in gelling agents should confirm that . In any case , emulsifying will lead to your liquid getting quite opaque . This is inavoidable , as it has to do with the way the collection of individual micro fat droplets break and reflect light rays .
I have the same problem and went through 3 different brands of milk , thinking they were UHT . However , after some experimentation I determined what I was doing wrong . In my case , after cutting the curd , and while the water was heating back up to 105 , we were stirring too much . The key is very slow gentle movement . Just enough to slightly move the curds , and not disturb them . " Stirring " will cause you to end up with a nice tasting ricotta , but not mozzarella .
Could be an unfinished roux ( the butter , flour mixture ) . But most likely it 's because the cheese was heated too quickly or too much , causing the protein to clump up . Suggestions : Melt with less heat Use a double boiler ( to reduce hot spots within the pan ) Toss the shredded cheddar with cornstarch first ( starch helps reduce clumping ) Add cheese in smaller batches ( easier to maintain correct heat level and stir cheese in )
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
North American cookware companies seem to use the terms " saute " and " sauteuse " interchangeably , but technically , the saute pan is the straight-sided one , and the sauteuse or " fry pan " is the slope-sided one . In French cooking equipment terms , the straight-sided one is called a " sautoir " , and the sauteuse has higher sides and while angled out , they are not curved . The curved , shorter sided one is called a poele ( and probably what most North Americans would identify as a " frying pan " ) . So the issue is really that there are a lot of different names floating around for just 3 types of pans . When you saute , you want to maximize cooking surface area , so that things do n't steam . Sloped sides will reduce the cooking surface , so that 's why a saute pan will have straight sides . Regarding the lid , it would be used in the case that you want to cover the pan after a sear , to braise or steam . It also makes your pan more versatile . Regardless of the etymology of " saute " , according to La Cuisine de Reference , the definition of saute is to cook quickly in a small amount of oil , and any of the aforementioned pans can be used for this cooking technique . " Sauter - Cuire rapidement des petites pièces de viande , de poisson ou de légumes dans un sautoir , une sauteuse ou une poêle , avec un peu de matière grasse . "
All of the answers you are looking for have been touched on in various parts of this question : <URL> Summary : Expiration dates are for best quality only . Nothing magical happens on that date . Truly fresh eggs ( i.e. from the chicken ) will hardly degrade at all even after a year in storage . Supermarket eggs are washed , removing the protective layer and lowering the shelf life . Some supermarket eggs are already contaminated with salmonella , and there 's no test you can do to find out for sure ( other than eating them raw ) . This will cause serious problems if you leave them in storage for several months , unless you freeze them . Lastly , damaged eggs will simply go rotten . You wo n't always see the damage , but you 'll definitely smell it by the time you hit that best-before date . As with just about every other food , you 're better off interpreting the sell-by or best-before dates as a conservative guideline ; any food can go off before the date if it 's been damaged or mis-handled , and many foods will still be fine long after they " expire " . <URL> is a good resource for finding out how long various foods actually last in storage .
This is one of the reasons I hate working with liquid lecithin - it 's the most viscous and sticky substance I 've ever had in my kitchen ( or , frankly , anywhere ) . Prevention seems to be the best approach ; try not to let the lecithin directly touch any utensils or cooking surface . Grease up your spoons , preferably with something reasonably solid at room temperature like coconut oil , butter , or margarine . That makes the lecithin slide off more easily , and you only need to clean off the grease afterward ( i.e. with soap ) . The only way I 've been able to clean surfaces or utensils coated with the lecithin itself is lots and lots and lots of warm water and paper towels . Warm water is important since lecithin does not dissolve very well in cold water . Good luck - personally , on the infrequent occasion that I need lecithin these days , I just stick to the granules .
I look for a few things ... Colour : There are many different varieties of mangos . Some go from green to red , some end up Orange , some start off yellow and end up orange . So once you 're familiar with the type of mango you 're buying , you can get an idea of what a ripe one looks like . Smell : A ripe mango will smell sweet . Check near the stem end , the smell should be stronger there . You should smell it and think " mango " . Smell is a large part of your taste , so it should be very familiar . Firmness : Mangos , like peaches will soften as they ripen . Just as it starts to go from firm to soft , it is just about ripe . Weight : With most fruit you can tell their ripeness by their weight . A riper fruit will be slightly heavier than an unripe one . As an aside , if you 're at a grocery store , and you see a few different types of mangos , look for these Ataulfo mangos : <URL> . They 're my personal favourite . The flavour is richer , and they are a lot less stringy . Finally , DO NOT refrigerate if you want them to ripen . <URL> ( There is also some generic mango info there )
The reason that your basting sauce flopped was the recipe was calling for an emulision ( basically , a vinegrette ) and by leaving out the vinegar you are changing the one of the basic building blocks of the dish . The sauce will require that you add the fats to the mustard as it will clump as experienced if you do n't . The mustard in the original recipe is used as an emuslifer and may need to be cut down without the addition of the vinegar . To build a sauce like this , you should start with the vinegar , add the seasonings and any emulisfers ( in this case , the mustard ) and slowly drizzle the fats into the resulting mixture until all has been incorperated . You will still get a smooth sauce as long as you keep the order even if you leave off an ingredient or two .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
Caffeine is water soluble , but it takes a bit of time to be absorbed by water . What determines the caffeine content of a coffee process is how much time it spends with/in water . For example , a bodum French press will pick up more caffeine from the coffee since the grounds stay soaked for a while . Drip coffee will have more than a single espresso ( common misconception is to think the opposite ) . It 's likely that the instant coffee process passes the water through the coffee under pressure and faster than drip . This will naturally prevent the caffeine to be absorbed in water as much . Besides using decaf roast , what you may wish to do is get an americano coffee made with one or two Ristretto shots of espresso . A Ristretto shot is usually pull away after 10 seconds . Take a look at this analysis from the <URL> for the actual Caffeine values .
If you were using supermarket cream , the reason would be very clear : it is not only pasteurized , but also homogenized . This means that it has been mechanically emulsified to prevent the butter from separating . I do n't know if the cream for creme fraiche is homogenized too before creme fraiche is made , but with your result , I 'd suspect homogenization too . It wo n't show up on the label as an ingredient , as it is done by forcing the cream through microfilters .
Antibiotics might be a reason , but it 's not the only cause . Other significant reasons are : exercise feed post-processing Most of the chicken available in grocery stores in the U.S. is factory raised ... they 're bulked up as quickly as possible without threat of predators . They 're fed corn , rather than their acting as pest control on farms , where they 'd be eating insects , moving about ( in their search for insects and other things to eat ) , and possibly running away from predators ( getting more exercise ) . That 's not to say that free roaming chickens would n't be fed corn or other processed feed ( or even antiobiotics ) , but that they 'd still have an opportunity for other food . The lack of predators means that chickens never have to fly , so they do n't need fast-twitch breast muscle , and they can grow to a size where they 'd never be able to fly , even for short flight to excape predators . Also not common in the U.S. are old chickens for stewing ... we have large chickens , but not necessarily the old ones , such as formerly egg-laying chickens that are no longer producing eggs . I have no idea what 's done with those ... they 're not in grocery stores , so I assume that they 're used in some other way ( dog food ? ) . One other possibility is the gender of the chicken . I do n't believe that males are raised for meat ( or anything else , really , other than in token amounts to sustain the species ) in the U.S. . I assume that a higher percentage of roosters would be produced in other countries , but I have no idea if they might be culled early ( if there are agression issues , etc , that would make them difficult to raise ) , like male cows are . And as for the post-processing comment ... much of the U.S. chicken is sold cut up , possibly with a brine solution injected , rather than being sold whole . This does n't seem like a big deal , other than the possibility of the brining , but it also means that chickens have been selectively bred for breast meat , rather than whole carcass weight . It also means that most of what we 're eating is white meat , rather than a mix of white &amp; dark meat .
end question
start question
How much juice is in a lemon ?
It can range on the size of the lemon and the time of year . A medium lemon will give 2-3 Tablespoons of juice , where a larger lemon can give 1/4 cup ( 4 Tablespoons ) . Just have to decide on much lemon flavor you want in your recipe as to which number you pick .
I have n't personally tried making lemon essential oil . But according to Young Living , an MD named Jean Valnet estimated that it takes 3,000 lemons to produce one kilo of Lemon essential oil . Here are some links to the estimations ( keep in mind that a kilogram is roughly 2.2 lbs ) : <URL> ( states 3000 makes 1 kilo ) <URL> ( states 3000 makes 1 kilo ) <URL> ( states 3000 makes 2 lbs ( about .91 kilo ) )
Here 's some general guidelines I have used in the past : Small onion = 4 ounces by weight or about 1/2 cup chopped Medium onion = 8 ounces , or about 1 cup chopped Large onion = 12 ounces , or about 1 1/2 cups chopped Jumbo onion = 16 ounces , or about 2 cups chopped <URL> The terms are not always completely accurate so use your best judgement . I 've often seen large onions that were as big or bigger than " jumbo " according to this data .
The only good way I know of to concentrate fresh orange juice and maintain the flavor is by removing the water . But not by heating it , as the heat will destroy the flavor . You need a vacuum distiller or freeze dryer for your orange juice . Pulling a vacuum will boil the juice at room temperature , removing the water without adding any heat .
To taste is one of those awesome cooking terms that trips people up all the time . To taste does not mean to what tastes good to you , although you can use that as a determination and your dish should still come out fine for most people . To taste means that you add salt ( or whatever ) while tasting the dish and you slowly add until the seasoning tastes perfect . To properly do this you are going to have to train your palate , but luckily it not that hard to do . As a matter of fact , we have a pretty good way to learn it right <URL> The end result you are trying to achieve is the point where food tastes the most like it 's self with out adding to much , this the small increments . The important part to remember is that " to taste " is where your food lives . It 's the thing that is unique to you and a part of what makes every dish you make an expression .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
I make bacon and other cured meats frequently . I find that the amount of liquid released from pork belly varies . That is not a useful measure of how the cure is proceeding . Bacon , in particular , is usually cooked after the cure , so I do n't worry too much . I use the salt-box method , coat the belly in cure mixture , place in large zip lock , place in container slightly larger than belly and put in fridge . Flip every day or so for a week . What I look for next is a firming up of the belly . I pinch it . If it has firmed up after a week , I move on to hot smoking ( or you could use your oven ) . If it still feels soft , I give it another day or two .
( after reading this : <URL> ) They usually use pectinase ( <URL> ) to break down pectin molecules to help mechanical filtration . They also use gelatins to help clump up particules to help mechanical filtering .
This question is actually answered in a <URL> you linked : kimberly says : Sorry for silly question , but the ingredient list says " 1/2 sleeve celery $ 0.65 " . do you mean 1/2 of a stalk or 1/2 of a bunch of celery ? [ ... ] Beth M says : Yes , I meant a half bunch . Sorry about the confusion ! :) I used about 4 stalks or so . They cook down quite a bit . Also there 's a picture of the ingredients used : So 4-5 stalks appears to be intended amount of celery . A recipe like this though is going to pretty flexible so if that seems like too much or too little it should n't be a problem if you go outside that range .
Fish contain very little n-6 ( Omega-6 aka linoleic ) fatty acids by nature . Most of the n-6 fats are contributed by vegetable sources during processing , such as vegetable oils used in coatings or pre-cooking . The amount of n-6 fats will depend on how the fish is processed and in which oil . The US National Library of Medicine has a brief article at <URL> . Info on n-3 and n-9 fatty acids in sprats can be found <URL>
Soda-like drinks have traditionally been made in the same way as beer , but with less fermentation to keep the alcohol content low . Without alcohol , ( and with a bunch of protein and fat around from the yogurt ) you run the risk of growing some <URL> in your soda . Some traditional fermentation techniques carry risk of botulism , and any ' new ' technique should undertaken very carefully . That being said , your soda should be quite acidic and probably safe . Get some pH paper and use it ! There are a few things I would change in this plan : Yogurt is made at fairly high temperatures to encourage lactobacillus growth while inhibiting others . Find out the best temperature for your culture , and make sure you can maintain it during fermentation . Try get the culture growing independent of any yogurt : grow it in your sugar/lemon solution for a few generations without pressure and with a bit of oxygen . If it 's still alive and still tastes good , you 're probably OK . Otherwise , if the culture dies halfway through fermentation , something else is likely to grow in its place :-( Lemon juice is quite acidic , and will clean metals quite nicely . So do n't put your soda in any metal container unless your really like the taste of iron . ( Even beer is acidic enough to cause this problem , fermentation is always in glass , plastic or stainless steel ) . Used plastic soda bottles work well when clean . The other major problem with a pressure cooker is getting the soda out : if the cooker did hold pressure from a fermentation ( actually it will probably leak CO2 faster than it is made ) you should n't be able to open it until the pressure is removed . Again , soda bottles are a good choice here . Last - your water should not be chlorinated , the flavor of your soda could be ruined by chlorine .
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
I 'm not sure if it 's a typo but the recipe surprises me , traditionally ( as far as a 100ish year old dish can be " traditional " ) vichyssoise would have chicken stock or seasoned milk as the liquid base . For that quantity of potato and leek I would estimate 0.6 - > 0.75 L of liquid so it is possible it is a typo .
i am celiac , ideally you should clean your entire kitchen , clean out your silverware and utensil drawers and wash all utensils in the dishwasher . Wipe all surfaces and sinks with bleach wipes . Scrub all pots and pans , to remove gluten films then wash in dishwasher . give all dishes to be used a run through the dishwasher . off limit items are , seasoned pans ( cast iron , or porcelain ) , earthenware , pasta pots , strainers , toasters , cooking stones , wood spoons or utensils , cutting boards , blenders and crockpots . to avoid contamination use fresh mayo , mustard , peanut butter jars , etc. . do not use any ingredients such as sugar that may have been contaminated with flour from use while baking . because you are not familiar with ingredients that contain gluten , use only pure ingredients if you are cooking for your celiac guest . avoid spice blends . <URL> hope this was a bit of help .
I also typically use bottled lemon juice , as my budget does not allow for fresh lemons . <URL> says you should use the bottle within a week , but I 've had success with keeping it much , much longer . That said , this is one item that will not usually work well past its best-by date , I 've found . Maybe in the future , you could freeze it in cubes if you ca n't use it soon enough ?
If you have a stove : Put a pan on the stove and use low heat to " toast " your cake . If you only have a rice cooker : The rice cooker is only for " wet-cooking " like cooking rice or steaming . I do n't know whether toasting food in the rice cooker breaks the cooker . Therefore I do n't know how to fix the cake then . :(
You can neutralize the acidity of your drink by adding a half teaspoon of baking soda , but do n't do this . Apart from fizzing up like a volcano , your lemon drink , or what is left of it , will taste pretty awful . What you want to do is reduce the perceived acidity . This can be done simply by adding more honey . I suggest adding a teaspoon at a time until it tastes about right . I like about double the amount of honey you specified if we 're talking teaspoons .
I have this recipe on my short list to try : <URL> Few things I 've noticed in her recipe and my own experience with pies containing whole lemons . The meyer lemons as she notes make a huge difference . Mind you their growing season is short and they are not available everywhere . If you have access to them , then all the better . Otherwise find the sweetest variety you can . If you can , select lemons with as thin rinds as possible . That all said , the shaker pie is designed to be sweet , sour and bitter . How bitter depends on the above .
Some fruit juices can be heated to drive off excess water ( especially those with a higher sugar content ) but citrus does n't tolerate this well . Fresh-squeezed citrus will get bitter and acrid if reduced . Instead , squeeze your citrus as normal and freeze the juice in an open container . Once it 's set into a solid block , place it into a funnel or strainer over a collection vessel . The juice itself will run off more quickly and collect in the vessel , while the ice crystals stay in the strainer ( until they melt , at least - do n't let them melt all the way , or you 're back to the beginning ) . Once the ice looks very lightly colored , discard it and enjoy your concentrated juice . You can repeat this process if you want further concentration , though eventually there will come a point where the juice is so concentrated that it wo n't freeze at conventional freezer temperatures . Good instructions for this process <URL> - it 's really quite simple !
<URL> , a major component of lemon oil , is not very water soluble , and will leave a sticky residue on your hands til you wash with soap and water .
end question
start question
What 's the crud in the pan with potatoes and oil ?
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
For baking potatoes Do n't just wash them , scrub them . Otherwise you 're eating dirt . No , that 's not a joke . Potatoes grow in dirt , and are usually sold coated with dirt . Yes , really . Either salt them and wrap them in tin-foil , or simply bake them on a bed of salt . Dessication of the skin is important . You 'll probably want to bake them longer and higher than most recipes say . I find 425F for 1 1/2 hours is optimal ( and 2 hours is fine ) . That results in skin which is dry , crispy , and slightly caramelized , while this inside still is fluffy ( albeit , according to some , overcooked ) .
Skillets are not designed to hold much liquid ; as you point out , the curved sides are optimized for easy flipping and turning ( i.e. with a spatula ) . They also normally do not come with lids ; I 'm sure there are some out there , but even my All-Clad skillets did n't . You can really only use a skillet for high-heat searing or frying due to their low profile . Do n't bother trying to poach or even shallow-fry in one . Sauté pans , on the other hand , have more height , and usually do come with lids . They 're a little heavier , and do n't make it as easy to turn , but they can also be used for shallow-frying and moist-heat cooking methods like braising or poaching . I 've seen people make sauce or chili in sauté pans as well ; sometimes they 're more convenient if you 're only going to make a small quantity , since the large exposed surface area ( relative to a saucepan ) makes it easier to reduce sauces . It 's a no-brainer if your recipe starts out with sautéing garlic , onions , vegetables , etc. , and then has you adding the liquid ingredients ; if you have a large enough sauté pan then you do n't need to bother transferring to a saucepan afterward . I think you 've got it backwards ; of the two options , a sauté pan is definitely the more versatile option . I use both , but if I only had the space or budget for one , I 'd choose the sauté pan , because it can do everything a skillet can do ( just not quite as well ) and many more things a skillet is useless for . A skillet is really only necessary for people who do a lot of pan-searing . Note that as commenter Owen suggests , there are " French skillets " sold which have higher bases ; these are not really skillets , and are not normally sold with lids , but assuming you can find or improvise one , they would make semi-decent multi-taskers . I maintain that cast-iron skillets , while taller , are not nearly as versatile due to their reactive material and weight - I only ever use mine for searing/grilling .
If the cocktail is from the 1800 's it 's just the place of origin . Nowadays the two are both fairly strong rums . They taste almost the same except the Jamaican Rum ( where I live ) is cheaper .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
Stretch and fold should be done in both directions . One stretch and fold , in most techniques that I read , is stretching like you stay , folding , then rotating 90 degrees and repeating . You can see an excellent example of stretch and fold in <URL> and <URL> . Where they do it and then turn it - that 's one stretch and fold .
Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth : Broths are the result of cooking meat , not just bones . They 're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own . The juices poured off from a roasted turkey ( after being degreased ) would be considered broth . Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth . Stocks are made from just the bones . They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes ( sauces , soups , stews , rice , etc. ) Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking . Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks , since it 's really hard to get all the meat off the bones . Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time ( 4-6 hours for chicken &amp; 8-12 for veal/beef ) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones . Broths are n't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods ( even chicken surrounded by the liquid ) will result in tough , flavorless meat . Consomme : a fortified and clarified stock . The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a " raft " which is a combination of lean ground meat ( appropriate to the type of stock being used ) with brunoise ( 1/16 inch ) mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) , and egg whites . The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats , the proteins coagulate forming a " raft " on top of the stock . A small hole is poked in the center ( if one has n't already formed ) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor . Bouillon : French word for broth . Court Bouillon : sometimes called a " short broth " . A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water , acid ( lemon juice , vinegar , wine ) , parsley stems , bay leaves , peppercorns , and some salt . When to use Stock vs. Broth : Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred . Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity is n't important , and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch .
I have a bottle of San-J Tamari ( black label ) in my fridge and the back reads : Tamari is a premium soy sauce made with more soybeans than ordinary soy sauce giving it a richer , smoother , more complex taste . Tamari has more flavor enhancing properties than salt . Add 1 tsp . ( 320 mg sodium ) instead of tsp . salt ( 590 mg sodium ) to reduce sodium intake . Stir-fry or marinate poultry , meat fish and vegetables . Add 1-2 tsp . to perk up sauces , soups , gravies and casseroles . In my experience , I use a little less tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . As Sean mentioned , it 's definitely a bit stronger than regular soy sauce . I eyeball most of the time , but I 'd say I use 1/2 to 3/4 portion of tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . I reach for the tamari when I want a bit more of a complex flavor on something plain like rice - when the soy sauce is to be the star of the dish , essentially . I tend to use regular soy sauce when mixing into a larger homemade sauce or where the soy sauce flavor will blend into the background because the recipe calls for so many other strong ingredients . Oh , and tamari seems to add a bit of an almost " smoky " flavor , it seems .
There 's too many factors to have a set percentage of oil that will stay , but lets cover a few common things that determine the oil in your final product . Heat of the oil : Your oil needs to be plenty hot enough to actually fry in . For fries , you 'll typically want to shoot for between 350-375 F . If you do n't have a thermometer , then get one ! If you really do n't want to get one , a white bread cube will fry brown in about 60 seconds at the right temp - but a thermometer is best . If the oil is n't hot enough to fry in , it will start to absorb the oil . So before you ever fry anything , get that oil up to temp ( and make sure its that way between batches ! ) . Coating of the fry ( or other fried food ) : A batter coating is just going to hold more oil than a plain french fry . If you 're trying to be health conscious about french fries ( but then again , why are you eating french fries !?! ) , avoid batter coating them and go with a ' plain ' fry . Post frying treatment : Shake , shake , shake ! Give the basket a good vigorous shake . Do n't have a basket ? Use a strainer or at least a cooling rack with a mesh-type grate . You 're trying to physically shake as much oil off the fry as you can . Additionally , I like to lay them on paper towels and then fold the paper towels on top . See all that oil ? Simple math , if its on the paper towel , its not in the fry anymore . Crowding the pan : If you crowd the pan you fry in , you 'll lower the temperature of the oil and give the oil not enough circulation . This means longer to fry and more time not at the right temperature . This means more oil in the final product . Its better to do some smaller batches than to try to cram it all in one batch . The right oil : The main thing here is that you need an oil that can fry hot enough without smoking . This goes back to the right temperature . ( In case it had n't sunk in yet , temperature is important ! ) If you ca n't get it hot enough , then you 're going to absorb a lot of oil . Olive oil is a bad choice . I usually use peanut or canola oil .
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
Transfer of heat . First you need a hot pan ( sprinkle some drops of water on the pan , it should sizzle ) . Then you add a drop of oil and swirl it around . When the oil forms a striated pattern , it 's hot . Then you put the meat in . The hot oil helps to transfer heat from the bottom of the pan to the meat . You only need a spoonful of oil .
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
Cook 's Thesaurus recommends <URL> . As I do n't tend to make fish stock , I 'd probably either use shrimp stock ( take the shells and heads , simmer in water for about an hour ) , or crab stock ( just use the shells , and maybe the smaller legs if you did n't extract the meat from them ) If you can find it , some stores will carry ' seafood bullion ' or ' shrimp bullion ' . As they tend to be salty , I 'd probably only use them at half strength , like the recommendation for substituting chicken stock . In a real pinch , you might be able to use water + fish sauce , but I have no idea what the proportions would be . ( I 'd probably compare sodium levels , and try to match that . So 1400mg/TB vs. 120-280mg / 2oz ... so averages 800mg/cup , so about 1.5 tsp fish sauce + water to replace a cup of clam juice ) .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
I found a link that will provide the explanation you are looking for : <URL> Here is a direct quote from the site : Masa is dried corn that has been cooked in limewater ( cal ) , soaked overnight , and then ground up while still wet . Sold in this form , it 's called fresh masa , and it makes the lightest , fluffiest tamales . In Mexico , it can be purchased at tortilla factories in two ways : with smooth consistency for making tortillas and , upon request ( if you are lucky ) , with a coarser consistency for making tamales . ( Be careful to differentiate between masa para tamales and masa preparada para tamales ; the latter , available at some tortilla factories and large Mexican groceries , is the coarse-textured masa mixed with lard and flavorings .
There are two basic kinds of potatoes : starchy and waxy . The difference is actually in the amount of starch in them . Starchy potatoes , such as Russet or Idaho potatoes are best for baking , since the starch will allow it to be nice and fluffy after it 's baked . They do n't hold their shape particularly well when cooked . If you cut into a baked potato , it should be crumbly and dry . Waxy potatoes include most fingerling potatoes , and most red potatoes . They hold their shape better when cooked , so they are good for soups and stews and potato salads . Yellow-fleshed potatoes such as Yukon Gold or Yellow Finn are in between , and so can be used for either purpose . Purple potatoes also seem to have medium starch , and so can be used for both . According to one cookbook I have ( Moosewood Restaurant New Classics ) , there are two ways to determine which is which . If you cut the potato in half , the blade will have a film or a foamy residue on the knife . These potatoes may also stick to the knife because of the starch . The rules for the brine is to make it of 11 parts water to 1 part salt . A high-starch potato will sink ( it 's denser ) and a low-starch one will float . Here 's a <URL> . Now as to choosing ones that will bake well , it really depends on size . You want potatoes that will bake evenly , so try to choose ones of similar size . I bake my potatoes directly on the oven rack so that the hot air can move freely around them . Try to give them lots of room for that . Also , if you wrap them in aluminum foil , they 'll steam and wo n't give you the nice crunchy skin . ( And I 'd avoid any potatoes with irregular shapes -- the smaller diameter ones may cook before the larger ones . ) Large potatoes take about an hour to bake at 350F . Lots of small ones may take a bit less time -- experiment with your oven and your potatoes . I 'd start squeezing slightly after about 40-45 minutes . If they yield when squeezed , they 're probably done .
<URL> Sugar balances both salty and sour flavors in dishes . Adding just a little sugar makes salty things taste less salty and sour things taste less sour , without actually reducing the amount of salt or acid in the recipe . For example , the liquid base of the Pad Thai recipe I follow contains chili powder , fish sauce , tamarind , and light palm sugar . The palm sugar balances out the sour from the tamarind and the salt from the fish sauce . Without it , the noodles would come out too sour and too salty . I do n't know the physiological reasons for this . Would be interesting to hear them if someone knew ...
Best thing to do is to keep them out of the light in an cool dark dry place . I usually put them in a hessian bag to try and keep the moisture away . Do n't store them in the fridge or anywhere that gets direct sunlight .
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
According to <URL> : The meat of sheep 6 to 10 weeks old is usually sold as baby lamb , and spring lamb is from sheep of five to six months .
end question
start question
How much powder does 1 TBSP of Cumin seeds yield when crushed ?
A little bit less than 1tbsp , maybe 4/5ths of a tablespoon .
Poaching is a gentle process - the milk is n't boiling so there is no risk of it burning or the like . It will of course not spoil in the sense of it going off , that 's a totally different process . Fresh milk is better because , well , it 's fresh . Powdered milk would probably work , but if you have fresh , use that .
Ricotta cheese is made from whey left over from making cheeses using rennet , such as mozzarella . The whey is heated and an acidic element ( such as vinegar , lime juice ) is added to it to incite coagulation . Paneer is made by adding an acid to hot milk . To answer your question , you can make ricotta using whey left over after making mozzarella , but you can not make it from whey left over from paneer as acids are used in it 's production . Note : if ricotta is made from whole milk it will be practically identical to paneer .
I would shred one or both leaves ( depending on size ) and garnish the soup right before eating it .
The tricky thing with flax seeds is to grind them fine enough . I 've found that my coffee grinder , for example , wo n't do the job because the seeds have a very hard coat . You can buy vacuum packed pre-ground meal and that may be a good option . Once you have ground flax seeds , they can be added in small amounts to baked goods very easily . Adding say 1/4 to 1/2 cup to a muffin , quickbread , or yeast bread will work nicely and add a nutty flavor . They can also be sprinkled on salads or grain dishes . You could add a little sea salt and use them somewhat like <URL> .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
When cooking with fenugreek personally , I have found that processing them in a grinder is the best way to use them in a dish . If they are not ground fine enough they can remain a bit more textured . Longer cooking time in liquid can help with the breaking down of the texture as well . However , it is best to just start out with grinding them as fine as you can . In response to the mustard seeds , I leave them whole , or grind them . Depending on how I plan to use them . They can be prepared in dishes both ways . They too break down in liquid much easier than the fenugreek seeds . So the crunchy texture you mentioned , may have been from the fenugreek , not the mustard seeds . Cooking duration can play a role too , just to keep that in mind .
I assume you mean sherbet , which is made by mixing 1 cup of powdered sugar ( also called icing or confectioner 's sugar ) with 1 tsp of baking soda ( also called bicarbonate of soda ) and 1 tsp of powdered citric acid . Altering the proportion of soda ( alkali ) to citric acid makes it more or less fizzy .
Ah , so the question is " Why does boiling the tofu change its texture ? " . Answer : it does n't . Try doing this recipe without boiling the tofu , I think you will find it is pretty much the same . I think if the boiling serves any purpose at all it is to remove any last remnant of taste from the tofu . I do n't mash tofu often , but when I do , I never boil it and I 've never had a problem .
I 'd go for a more powerful one , in general , and I noticed that the higher powered disposals are sometimes quieter , which I really like . I really learned that paying the extra for good plumbing parts ( faucet , disposal ) through our plumber was worth it , since they can be fixed , unlike cheaper big box store stuff , and that there was a real difference in the higher quality disposal .
After looking into this much longer than a sane person should have , I 've realized that the strength of the tea does n't depend so much on the quantity of tea . Controlling the strength of tea is normally done by controlling the steeping time . As stated by paul , the best way to dilute the strength of a tea is by resteeping it . The steeping time of a tea is most determined by the coarseness of the tea leaves . Similar to garlic , finer leaves make the taste a lot stronger , whereas large , coarse leaves will be weaker . The instructions on the bag often say what 's been tried and tested . Quite often , one tea bag can make quite a lot of tea , enough for a teapot . I 'd recommend going for two tea bags only if you 're planning to go for larger than a teapot , for tea suited to drinking by itself and with added ice , or with certain weaker teas . For black tea , the common steeping seems to be 2-3 minutes . There 's little harm in steeping too short , but steeping too long will create a harsh bitter taste ( though some people may actually want that ) . For cheap , harsh , unbranded teas , 3 minutes seems to be enough unless the leaves are finely chopped . Also , as bonus knowledge , steeping tea for 45 seconds then throwing away the water and resteeping it is a great way to decaffeinate tea . Do n't shake the tea bag or stir the drink while steeping it , because it will cause the harsh stuff to enter water faster , and black tea should be steeped at 98 degrees C.
Um , no . You can even <URL> . The only common potentially dangerous seeds I know of belong to almonds , apples , apricots , peaches , plums , cherries , and other stone fruits . These contain a cyanide and sugar compound known as <URL> . When metabolized it breaks down into hydrogen cyanide ( HCN ) . In all cases the toxin is inside the seeds and will not be exposed to the body unless the seeds are chewed . Of these , the only seed commonly consumed would be the apple seed , usually inadvertently , or by daring children . It would take a large amount ( ca n't find a reliable reference - one source said 1 cup ) of well chewed seeds to poison you . Regarding almonds , only the bitter almonds have cyanide levels to be concerned about ( we eat sweet almonds ) . So , besides the apple , these all belong to the Prunus genus of plants . Cyanide is just their thing . Watermelon belongs to the Citrullus genus .
Drain some of the liquid off either of those , whiz it in the food processor , add liquid back as needed to reach the " crushed " consistency .
There is a difference beyond just the price . All-Purpose flours are not the same : Southerners tend to make more quick breads , pies , cakes , etc. where tenderness is the primary quality factor . Southern brands of all-purpose flour such as White Lily , Martha White , Red Band , Adluh and others are typically milled from wheat that naturally has a lower gluten percentage . They also blend it to achieve an overall lower percentage . In addition , southern all-purpose flour is usually bleached , often with chlorine gas which weakens the gluten structure of the gluten in it and creates an acidic nature in the dough . Gluten does n't develop as easily in an acidic environment . On average , people living in the northeast/midwest tend to bake a lot more yeast-based products ( dinner rolls , cinnamon rolls , pumpernickel bread , rye , wheat , white , french bread , etc. ) which benefit from a higher gluten percentage . Northern/Midwest brands such as King Arthur , Hecker 's etc. tend to use wheat that has a higher gluten content for the milling of their flour and they typically leave it unbleached which allows the gluten to better develop during mixing/kneading . National brands such as Gold Medal and Pillsbury are being distributed across the country so they blend their flour to fall within the mid-range of gluten content . As for store brands , those that are national ( such as Kroger/safeway ) are probably being milled by the national flour mills and should probably perform about the same . If it 's a regional store brand ( such as Piggly Wiggly here in the south or Wegman 's in the Northeast ) I 'd be willing to bet that it probably falls within the scope of those regional types of milling practices . For a chart showing the range of gluten content for various types of flour from cake flour to bread flour ( including the all-purpose brands mentioned above ) see <URL> .
There are indeed different varieties of sorrel , * but they 're both/all high ( though I ca n't determine how high ) in the substance of concern , which is oxalic acid . This acid is found in lots of other green leafy vegetables , notably spinach and parsley , and is the reason that you should n't eat rhubarb leaves . ** It seems to have a reasonably high expected lethal dose ; the internet echo chamber puts it at 600 mg/kg , which would mean eating pounds and pounds of whatever leaf you 've got . The necessary amount to cause sickness is obviously much lower , however . There 's also a long-term risk for kidney stones -- oxalic acid combines or reacts with calcium to form calcium oxalate , which is a major component of those stones ( and this is the mechanism for more immediate poisoning , whether lethal or not ) . I have also seen reports of simple mouth and digestive irritation , again caused by the calcium salt . Unfortunately , it seems that cooking does not destroy oxalic acid . It may be possible to reduce its presence by boiling and discarding the water , however . It 's unclear to me whether this is because the acid itself dissolves into the water , or whether the oxalates ( Harold McGee says that the potassium and sodium salts are water-soluble ) form during cooking and are dissolved . In all , I think the only recommendation that can be made is simple moderation . It 's incredibly unlikely that you 'll kill anyone with a salad , but do n't eat the stuff in large amounts every day . * " Common " ( looks like elongated spinach ) and " wood " ( looks a bit like clover , but the leaves are cardiod ) are the two that I 'm most familiar with . ** Although it seems that there 's possibly at least one other poisonous substance in the leaves .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
I suggest starting with this <URL> for more information on brining . Much of what would be transferred into your turkey is liquid from the osmosis , but some salt , and sugar if you choose to use it , would be added as well . If you purchase an " enhanced " turkey that has already been injected , you do n't want to brine it . The injection has a similar effect . If you 've made an enhanced turkey in the past , you 've already eaten a bird with added sodium . <URL> states that the turkey will gain 10 % of its weight in a combination of water and sodium . Your brine comes out to about 3.9 % salt , so your 12 lb turkey will gain ( ( 12 lbs * .1 ) * .039 ) = .0486 lbs = 21 grams of salt from a 3.9 % brine . Your average soda has 55 milligrams of salt per serving . The total amount of salt from your brine will be spread over the entire turkey , so divide that amount by the number of servings you expect that turkey to provide to get the number of additional milligrams of sodium per serving of turkey from brining . If at the end of the day you do n't want to brine , in that same article McGee also suggests a way to keep turkey moist without a brine . EDIT : I did my math wrong above , and have corrected the formula and results .
If you render out fat , there will be less fat in the final product ... it figures . Getting rid of all of the fat , is probably not possible , or desirable .
According to <URL> : Jaggery is not as sweet as white sugar , so when substituting white sugar for Jaggery use about 1/3 less . When swapping Jaggery in for sugar , use anywhere from 1/4 to 1/2 more Jaggery than was called for of sugar ( if you want to keep the recipe as sweet as it was . ) That meshes with my limited experience too , so if the jaggery is ground in such a way that it will measure like the sugar you are replacing , and you are replacing 1TBS of sugar , then you would want to use somewhere in the neighborhood of 1TBS plus 1tsp of jaggery . If precision is needed ( which of course does n't really apply here , but bear with me ) consider that the way jaggery and sugar measures volumetrically are unlikely to really be identical . It would be better to measure by weight , or if there is liquid in the recipe , by water displacement .
Sure you can bake crushed peppermint candy into cake . If you 're talking about candy cane type candy , you can just crush it and add it to the batter , you would n't have to make changes to the recipe at all except the addition . It wo n't affect the way the cake bakes . The very edges of crushed candy might meld into the cake a bit , but I would expect that effect to actually be pretty nice . The sharp edges would be just a bit softened . Whether it maintains it 's own character would mostly depend upon the size of the pieces . Powder might dissolve , but distinct pieces ( like .3 -.5 centimeter or so ) would stay distinct .
end question
start question
How do you score pork skin ?
I recommend ( and use ) a <URL> . Not only are they fairly tough and sharp , you can adjust the blade to the depth you need ( you do n't want to cut too deep ) . And the blades are cheap to replace ... As others have noted in the comments , be careful with this as you would with any knife : the blades may be small , but they 're quite sharp .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
Unless you 've got the time and resources to set up your own biology lab , you 're not likely to have much luck raising your own bacterial cultures from scratch . You 'd probably need growth mediums suited to particular strains of bacteria and strict isolation between them to prevent other opportunistic bugs from taking over . If you really , really want to try , you might have better luck asking on <URL> . Fortunately , a lot of pickled-vegetable recipes ( such as <URL> , or <URL> ) do n't bother with an initial culture . This is what 's called a " wild fermentation " , meaning that you 're culturing with whatever bacteria happen to float their way into your fermentation vessel . If the initial culture is present , it 's there to kick-start the process , or to obtain a very specific flavor profile by using a precise blend of bacterial strains . In those cases , you 'll want to buy , because it 's practically impossible to invite only a single strain of bacteria to the party . Even if your kitchen is scrupulously clean , exposing your food to open air also quickly exposes it to bacterial colonists that you ca n't control . Other fermented foods can be started from a purchased culture , or they can be inoculated from a sample of active culture in a purchased food . For example , <URL> as a starter for fermenting your own , and you can cultivate the scoby from a store-bought bottle of kombucha to <URL> . With some care and maintenance , you can make some of these cultures <URL> . The cultures that give sourdough bread its distinctive flavor are sometimes kept this way . If you need a specific starter for your recipe , you 'll just have to pony up and purchase it . Depending on the final product , you might be able to use a different starter and wind up with a similar end product ( see <URL> ) but it would be inadvisable and possibly unsafe to deviate from your directions .
There used to be a good reason to add the jelly to the meat pie : food safety . In the time before refrigerators , it was hard to keep meat without some spoilage . But a slaughtered fully grown pig meant some hundred kilos of meat , and it was n't eaten on a single day . Most of the bacteria which spoil meat need oxygen to proliferate . So once you pack the meat into a clinging skin , it keeps for longer . This is one of the reasons why people bothered to bake meat pies instead of roasts in the first place . But there is a problem with meat pies . As the other answers mentioned , the meat steams while being baked , and this steam must be gathered below the upper crust and vented through a hole . You ca n't tightly wrap the meat in the crust and then bake ; the steam will probably open the seam , resulting in an irregularly shaped pie , and the crust still wo n't cling . So , a meat pie has some space between the meat and the roof . I do n't know how quickly such a pie will dry out , as ElendilTheTall suggested . Surely , this is a factor . But I bet that , if you keep it outside of a refrigerator , it will spoil long before it dries . Filling this space with jelly ( which happens to be available in big amounts too - after all , we just slaughtered our big pig and want to cook lots of it as quickly as possible , so we probably have more stock than we can use up ) practically seals the meat airtight against bacteria . And while the cooks from that time did n't know about bacteria , they sure knew how quick a piece of meat spoils visibly ( smellably ? ) . This is how the traditional jelly-topped meat pie recipe was born . We have refrigerators today , but we still follow the recipes as they always were . I do n't see any reason not to . Drying out is probably a factor . And as for the taste - I have eaten more French patês than English meat pies , and maybe there is some difference . They never looked like on sarge_smith 's picture . But I definitely like the jelly layer . I must confess that I have always eaten it in good restaurants or home made , so maybe the poor quality has ruined it for you . But anyway , if you want to bake meat pies without it , you do n't have to include it . The problem is that , if you leave the space hollow , you 'll have a cosmetic problem ( your crust will probably shatter when you try to cut it ) and the already mentioned drying possibility . The solution is to bake the pie without the upper crust . You 'll then have meat pie slices which only have crust on three sides . If you do n't want a baked crust to form on the meat , or if you experience heat control problems because of the missing insulator , use a temporary cover ( aluminum foil , bacon stripes , or lay some big lettuce leaves on it and throw out later , or you can try a plate , but must somehow leave an opening for the steam ) . If you want a pie with four crust sides , blind bake a sheet of pastry pre-cut for the open side ( allow for shrinkage when cutting ) , then glue it to the meat pie somehow . Sticky honey glaze , or a layer of cream cheese should work ( as would jellied stock :) ) This does n't guarantee that you wo n't get some congealed fluid within the pie . sarge_smith correctly pointed out that the meat in a pie is collagen-rich , and all the juices which would become roast drippings in roasted meat are staying between the meat and the crust . Some will get absorbed , but maybe not all . It may be worth to try making the pie with ground tender meat . I am however not sure whether this will provide you with a good jelliless pie , or with a pie with a soggy crust .
I would recommend separating the crackling from the meat and re-heating both separately . The meat can go into the oven ( or the microwave ) , the crackling can go under the grill ( aka broiler ) .
The only trick I know is to let it start to firm up before mixing in the fruit . You can pour a layer , let it slightly firm up ( it 'll be kinda a thick goo ) , add the fruit and the rest of the mix . ... but you do n't want to let it set up completely ; then you 'll just have two layers that have n't bonded well with fruit stuck in there . Exact time for it to gel depends on what temperature you 're resting it , and the size of the container you 're chilling it in ( mostly it 's a matter of surface to mass ratio )
You would use raw corn . You can either grill it on the cob , or use a <URL> .
This is absolutely fine , especially if the eggs are pasteurised . I 've seen plenty of recipes that have raw egg in them that say it ; s fine to freeze them . You can even freeze eggs ( that have been mixed up a little ) for up to three months . So yes , I 'd say freeze it as soon as possible . Also , if you were concerned about freezing the quinoa that will fine as well ( a lot of people do n't know you can store grains in the freezer ) . Enjoy !
Take them to a professional . Nothing you can affordably buy in your home will work well . Personally , I do n't buy quality serrated knives . I buy cheap and replace when dull . Only my normal blades are quality , and these I have sharpened yearly .
Personally , I 've never made a dish that required greasing of the crockpot - even if it called for it , I 've ignored that step and had no problems . I can only imagine the step is added to ensure nothing sticks - but my crockpot ( and all others I 've seen ) are glazed porcelain or ceramic , and the recipes always include a liquid of some kind , so I do n't think that 's going to be a problem . If I were going to grease it , however , I 'd do it in the method you described , and use a very light touch .
In my somewhat limited experience you have two things that affect growth of the crispy ears . As Caleb mentions using a lame to score your bread means you can cut with a bit of an angle that will promote a little flap . The second is ensuring a rapid oven spring , which will cause the flap to open as much as possible before the starches on the surface set . The key to good oven spring is having a hot enough oven ( preheat longer than you think you need to if you are using a stone or other heat-storing vessel in the oven ) , and a source of steam injection . A few ways to do get some steam : When you put the dough in , pour a 1/2 cup of boiling water into a small cast iron skillet pre-heated in the oven . Spritz the walls of the oven with water when you put the dough in . My favorite - preheat a large dutch oven , and put the dough inside the dutch oven ( lid on ) to bake . For the last 10 minutes of the bake , remove the lid . The dutch oven stores some of the initial steam release and makes for much nicer spring and crusts . Of course , only round bread fits .
Quinoa naturally contains a bitter compound on the outside of the seed . Usually you have to rinse the quinoa to remove the bitterness but most commercial quinoa seems to have already been rinsed . So , I no longer rinse my quinoa . If you have time , it 's nice to heat a pan and add the quinoa and toast it a little ( for a nutty flavor and fluffier texture ) , then add water and salt . I typically bring the water to a boil ( 2 cups water to 1 cup quinoa plus 1/4 tsp salt ) , cover and reduce the heat to a simmer for 10-20 minutes ( or until the little tails release ) . Lately I 've found that using a rice cooker is a no-fuss way to prepare quinoa . I usually just do quinoa , water and sea salt but you can add spices while cooking it if you want to enhance the flavor . I would add vegetables afterwards . Quinoa is so quick-cooking I would n't see the need for a pressure cooker .
By hunting chicken in a game preserve ? ;-) <URL> The essence of poaching chicken is a gentle boil in water , stock or other flavorful liquid . I really like poaching chunks of chicken in a thin sweet-and-sour sauce , then thickening the sauce , adding pineapple chunks , and serving over rice .
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
I recommend ( and use ) a <URL> . Not only are they fairly tough and sharp , you can adjust the blade to the depth you need ( you do n't want to cut too deep ) . And the blades are cheap to replace ... As others have noted in the comments , be careful with this as you would with any knife : the blades may be small , but they 're quite sharp .
I am not familiar with nopales , but I would be astonished if their green color was determined by something else than chlorophyll . Chlorophyll is usually destroyed by normal cooking techniques . If you want to keep the color mostly green ( some dulling is inevitable ) : cook the vegetable in an alkaline fluid . The easiest way is to use water with some baking soda added . The problem here is that humans like food which is slightly acidic , and alkaline food tastes soapy . Also , vegetable fibers soften more easily in alkaline environments , so they will be somewhat mushy . So use a very small amount . If they are to be added to a dish which is acidic ( in a Mexican dish , the culprit will probably be tomatoes ) , cook the green vegetable separately , and only combine it with the rest of the dish at the last possible moment . Right before serving is best . Heat destroys chlorophyll too . Cook the green vegetable as short as possible . Blanching is perfect , do n't forget the ice bath at the end . It will probably be enough as a preparation method . While I do n't know how hard a nopale is , I find blanching to be quite sufficient even for broccoli ( provided the water contained either salt or baking soda ) , and their stems are one of the woodiest things we eat . If you do n't think they are softened enough after blanching , cook them longer , until you find they are sufficiently softened .
100 ° C for 7 hours sounds just about perfect . The meat will be meltingly tender by then . In fact I think you could go even lower on the temperature if you like , say 80 ° C or 90 ° C. Of course , if you want to be absolutely sure , check with the thermometer , but unless you know that your oven is unreliable or you happen to be in possession of the largest pig shoulder in the world I am 100 % sure it will be more than done in 7 hours on 100 ° C. Good luck !
First , the recommended minimum cooking temperature for pork is 145 so you can cook them a little less than you already are . Also , keep in mind that meat continues to cook after it is removed from the pan/cooking element . The residual heat will produce what is known as " carry over cooking " which can range from 5-15 degrees , depending on the size of the item and how long it sits . Pork chops are n't going to continue rising as high as a large roast that has a greater amount of residual heat built up . Also , it is very difficult to get an accurate reading on temperatures for chops and steaks with a thermometer so it 's really best to learn to determine doneness through touch . For pork you 're looking for a medium doneness so touch your middle finger to your thumb . That will contract the fleshy part between the thumb and index finger on the same hand . Poke that with the index finger from your other hand . It should feel somewhat springy with just a little firmness . That 's how your pork ( or medium-done steak ) should feel when it 's ready to be removed . As for other things you might consider ... Brining will pull moisture into the pork so that it 's less likely to dry out during the cooking process . A brine is a mixture of water , sugar , and salt . Additional flavors may be added but this would be a basic moisturizing brine . Through osmosis , the liquid is pulled into the cells of the meat . As the meat cooks it retains it 's juiciness due to the fact that salt helps to retain water . The flavor is enhanced through any seasonings that were also introduced to the brine as they will be carried into the cells of the meat as well . Basic Brine : 1 qt . water , 1/2 cup kosher salt , 1/2 cup sugar . Add the sugar and salt to the water and stir until dissolved . Submerge meat in brine and refrigerate if brining for an extended period of time . Plan on about 1 hour per pound of meat . When you 're ready to cook , remove the meat from brine , pat dry and then season as you normally would and rub with a little oil before broiling , grilling , searing , etc. . I hope that provides some help !
Properly ? You throw it in a pit with hard wood coals for at least 8 hours . Of course we do n't refer to that as roasting . :) Oven roasting is easier . Turn the oven on to 250F or so . Put something flavorful on the roast . Stick in a probe thermometer and put it in the oven . Remove when the thermometer reads 150F . Let it rest for a few minutes before carving . For more color and fat rendering you can roast at 450F for 10 minutes before dropping the oven to 250F and putting in the thermometer . Flavorings are varied of course . Apple works well .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
end question
start question
Can/do apples and pears ripen ?
Ripe pears range from as firm as soft wood ( think balsa ) to as soft as a sponge when ripe , depending on the variety . If your store-bought pears are hard for more than a week , then you bought ones which were picked too young and will never really ripen . This is a common issue with supermarket produce . Ripe apples are generally always firm , even when ripe . Soft apples are generally rotten , except for a few varieties which are primarily meant for cooking into sauce or fillings . This makes it more complicated to tell when they are ripe . Both apples and pears ripen much more slowly when refrigerated . Most fruit will ripen faster when put in an enclosed space with ripening apples , including other apples .
It 's just how long you dry them . Thin apple slices work best for crunchy chips and then just dry them till they 're crunchy - sometimes as much as 18-20 hours . Soft , chewy dehydrated apples just go for a shorter time .
My opinion - I have n't done rigorous testing : Canning softens the interior of the peach but when I have ( in my laziness ) left the skins on they stay tough and quite unpleasant tasting . I doubt it has any effect on the longevity of the product but it would make it a little less pleasant and versatile .
Unless you 've got the time and resources to set up your own biology lab , you 're not likely to have much luck raising your own bacterial cultures from scratch . You 'd probably need growth mediums suited to particular strains of bacteria and strict isolation between them to prevent other opportunistic bugs from taking over . If you really , really want to try , you might have better luck asking on <URL> . Fortunately , a lot of pickled-vegetable recipes ( such as <URL> , or <URL> ) do n't bother with an initial culture . This is what 's called a " wild fermentation " , meaning that you 're culturing with whatever bacteria happen to float their way into your fermentation vessel . If the initial culture is present , it 's there to kick-start the process , or to obtain a very specific flavor profile by using a precise blend of bacterial strains . In those cases , you 'll want to buy , because it 's practically impossible to invite only a single strain of bacteria to the party . Even if your kitchen is scrupulously clean , exposing your food to open air also quickly exposes it to bacterial colonists that you ca n't control . Other fermented foods can be started from a purchased culture , or they can be inoculated from a sample of active culture in a purchased food . For example , <URL> as a starter for fermenting your own , and you can cultivate the scoby from a store-bought bottle of kombucha to <URL> . With some care and maintenance , you can make some of these cultures <URL> . The cultures that give sourdough bread its distinctive flavor are sometimes kept this way . If you need a specific starter for your recipe , you 'll just have to pony up and purchase it . Depending on the final product , you might be able to use a different starter and wind up with a similar end product ( see <URL> ) but it would be inadvisable and possibly unsafe to deviate from your directions .
The first rule to keeping food from sticking to cast-iron is to keep it well primed - it sounds like you 're doing that already . Beyond that , read <URL> - they 'll also apply to cast iron . To summarize : Food sticks when chemical bonds form between the food molecules and the metal . Very hot oil helps to reduce sticking by instantly and continuously heating the food until it 's surrounded by a layer of steam from its natural moisture content boiling . Let the oil get nice and hot before adding food . Very hot oil also binds with the pan , so food ca n't . This is the principle behind priming the pan in the first place . I have some theories regarding particular problem foods : Most of the molecular bonding occurs from proteins . Egg whites are mostly protein . Frying potatoes creates surfactants in the oil , which cause oil and water to mix . This reduces the effect of the protective layer of steam . ( Some people save and re-use cooking oil -- though it can impart a delicious flavor to later meals , it will also build up surfactants if the same oil is used too many times . ) Also , keep in mind that acidic foods like tomatoes will break down the protective patina and may make foods stick more readily .
make waffles ! that 's what we do with ours , besides bread . sourdough waffles with syrup have this great sweet/sour balance going on that is really wonderful .
Ripe pears range from as firm as soft wood ( think balsa ) to as soft as a sponge when ripe , depending on the variety . If your store-bought pears are hard for more than a week , then you bought ones which were picked too young and will never really ripen . This is a common issue with supermarket produce . Ripe apples are generally always firm , even when ripe . Soft apples are generally rotten , except for a few varieties which are primarily meant for cooking into sauce or fillings . This makes it more complicated to tell when they are ripe . Both apples and pears ripen much more slowly when refrigerated . Most fruit will ripen faster when put in an enclosed space with ripening apples , including other apples .
Seltzer and carbonated water are the same thing . Club soda is slightly different . <URL> The term seltzer water is a genericized trademark that derives from the German town Selters , which is renowned for its mineral springs . Naturally carbonated water has been commercially bottled and shipped from this town since the 18th century or earlier . Generally , seltzer water has no added sodium salts , while club soda still retains the sodium salts . So , the primary difference is that seltzer has no added ingredients , but <URL> : Sodium bicarbonate , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate and sodium citrate are added to club soda ... <URL> of the ingredients list and taste of various types of fizzy water . So to answer your question directly , you can make seltzer just by carbonating regular tap water , and you can make club soda by adding potassium bicarbonate , potassium sulfate , or baking soda to water and carbonating it .
You might not be as consistent as you think . See <URL> . One thing that comes to mind is amount of flour , and how ( and how much ) you 're mixing -- but I do n't know that those would make it ' thin ' necessarily , but it would make them tough if you 're over mixing . It might be a temperature issue , if you 're using a solid shortening ( eg , butter ) rather than a liquid shortening . Also , although you said you 're cooking them for the same amount of time , inconsistent oven temperature might turn that into inconsistent baking -- you only want brownies to be set on the sides when you take them out of the oven -- they should fail a toothpick test if you want them fudgy . Cooking them until they 're ' done ' will result in them hardening up as they cool .
I went to the farmers ' market last week and bought a variety of apples . After cooking , here 's the order from softest to firmest : McIntosh , Cortland , Winesap , Yellow Delicious . The McIntosh of course practically dissolve . If you want to make quick apple sauce , or if you like really squishy pie , they 're the best . I typically prefer Cortlands for pie , b/c they do n't totally dissolve but neither do they keep their shape . I think I 'm going to try Winesap , though ; I think they 'd work great for pie . The Winesap apples I used got very soft , but they still held their shape . Think of it like a ripe banana or pear - it has shape , but you can squish it really easily . After 30 minutes in the oven ( making apple crisp ) , they got soft enough that lightly pressing with a fork would squish them down . They did not stay as firm as the Yellow Delicious did and definitely not as firm as Granny Smith would .
You can make some very good sauces , based on demi-glace . Bordelaise ( if you add chopped shallots , red wine and a bit of marrow ) ( eat it with grilled beef , steak or pork ) Robert ( if you add chopped onions , vinegar and white wine , and a bit of mustard ) ( fits very well with grilled pork ) Zingara ( chop ham , mushrooms and truffle into tiny pieces ) ( You can mix this with tomato sauce and it goes well with beef tongue ) If you want to use demi-glace as it is , it fits very well with pork chops or lamb , hogget , or mutton .
Any number of things can go wrong . Is your flesh cut correctly , that is , against the grain ? Hint : if you see a string , it 's cut with the grain and will affect tenderness . Has your flesh properly aged ? Enzymes in the meat dissolve the tissue , making it naturally tender . 21 Days is recommended . You marinade too long . 15-30 minutes is <URL> for your cuts . You cook the meat too long . A thin slice should be fried on high heat for a short time . Restaurants get better meat . Fact of life . Edit : Basic sauté method . Heat the pan . The pan is hot when a drop of water becomes steam instantly . Add some oil and heat it . It should become very hot very quick . Look for wrinkles on the surface . Add the meat . When you see a drop of ' blood ' ( that 's plasma ) flip the meat . Retire the meat . [ Optional ] Add cold liquid to pan ( could be the marinade ) , clean the bottom of the pan . Lower the heat and make a pan sauce . Add the meat to the sauce for a minute and serve .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
Generally any non-oily fish is fine for deep frying . A relatively meaty fish ( though not too meaty like monkfish ) with a good thick fillet is best , because this allows the batter to cook without overcooking the fish . As Yellow Croaker is not an oily fish , you should be fine to batter and deep fry it provided you have a nice thick fillet . Traditional fish and chips usually uses cod or haddock .
I have no trouble making lovely light lemon cake gluten free , and many other gluten free cakes too , I make them for a living . There is a substitute for gluten and it 's called Xanthan Gum . You can buy this separately to add to your flour ( about a teaspoonful for every 250g ) , or in a ready mixed flour blend , at least you can in the UK . A mixture of flours such as rice , potato starch , tapioca and maize/cornstarch works much better than a single flour when substituting for wheat flour . Each flour has its own unique characteristics and brings different properties to the cake . The combination of these , if got right , makes a light , moist and tasty cake , often better than wheat flour ones - this is feedback from my customers who are not coeliac ! There are recipes to be found on the web for making one 's own flour blends if needed , but look for a recipe that contains Xanthan Gum and it will not turn out like a brick . And there 's no need to cream the fat with the sugar and whisk the eggs separately etc. . I just use an all-in-one everything in the mixer bowl and mix .
An avocado will keep a few days in the refrigerator after it has been cut . The cut portion will turn brown/black due to oxidation , you can just cut that off , it is not harmful . From <URL> to keep the avocado from discoloring sprinkle it with lemon/lime juice or vinegar and wrap tightly in plastic wrap or place in an airtight container . From <URL> storing a cut avocado with a piece of cut onion in an airtight container will stop the oxidation . I do n't know why this is , but I suspect that it has to do with the sulfur compounds that the onion releases . This is the same sulfur that makes you cry when you chop onions , but it is also used as a preservative . The onion 's smell and taste do n't seem to transfer to the avocado , as far as I can tell . But I 'm not overly sensitive to onions , so you may want to check this out first if you are . When not to use , from WebMD if your avocado 's flesh has become very dark or the flesh has become stringy you should avoid eating it , particularly if there is any sign of mold . Avocados have a very high fat content , so they oxidize and become rancid very quickly at room temperature and will need to be thrown away .
It is possible for mold to form on cashews - or any other nuts - but only if there has been moisture penetration into the container . If the moisture is at a safe ( low ) level , then mold wo n't grow . See for example , <URL> , which refers to the maximum acceptable moisture content of 5.8 % for retail storage/shipping , although if you look at their data table , it appears that you may still end up with non-trivial amounts of mold in the low 5 % range ( which is why you are supposed to store nuts sealed and in a cool , dry place ) . Honestly , cashews are hard enough such that you would almost certainly see mold on the surface if it were present in harmful quantities . Most likely what you 're smelling/tasting is simply oxidation of the fats ( the process which causes rancidity ) without actual full-blown rancidity . Mold requires moisture but all oxidation requires is light and maybe a little air exposure . If you really want to be on the safe side - e.g. if your home is particularly hot or humid - then store your nuts in the refrigerator or freezer ( sealed , to prevent contamination or off-odours ) . Although most ( all ? ) nuts are considered shelf-stable , they do keep longer in the fridge or freezer .
One of my favorite topics , having grown up close to two apple orchards ... Most likely , by " quick-cooking , " the recipe intends you to use a pie or sauce apple , i.e. one that softens readily with heat . Sauce apples . Use these for a pie if you like VERY soft pie contents . Personally , I prefer applesauce that has some chunks in it , so I do n't use " sauce apples " for sauce ; however , the standard is to list for sauce those apples that practically dissolve ( like McIntosh ) . Pie apples . An apple listed for pie is typically one that retains its shape but softens well ( like Cortland , Mutsu , Empire , Jonagold , or Fuji ) . Consider the taste . Some apples ( Gala , for example ) lose a lot of flavor when cooked , and are best for eating raw . Others gain tremendous flavor when cooked ( Empire ) . Which apple to use is certainly a matter of preference . Some people like their pie apples to remain quite firm ( using , say , Granny Smith ) , while others like them to be VERY soft ( and thus use a " sauce " apple ) . Here 's some apple lists/charts ... I 'd say look up the varieties readily available to you , and see which ones are listed for sauces or pies . <URL> <URL> Look up the website for your local orchard - they may link to a usage chart for the apples they grow !
You can let it ripe at room temperature . If you want to slow down the ripening process , put it in the fridge , although this will affect the mango negatively . If you want to speed up the process , put it in a bag with a banana . When the mango is ready to eat , it will be slightly soft if you press it and you can smell the mango flesh through the peel . The green colour will not totally disappear .
What Tim said . Eggs just do n't hold very well , and they are very sensitive to temperature -- reheating them basically will mean re-cooking them . I would never store eggs in this manner , because the texture and flavour degradation will make them unpleasant to eat . However , to actually answer your question -- and again , I urge you not to do this because stored and reheated eggs will taste like garbage -- cooked eggs should keep for up to 72 hours in the refrigerator . Remember to chill them as rapidly as possible after cooking , and you may wish to undercook slightly in order to minimize problems when reheating . I would use 72 hours as an absolute maximum , particularly if you are undercooking . 48 hours is probably wiser .
end question
start question
When a recipe calls for Wine , does it make a difference what wine to use ?
Yes . If you would n't drink it , do n't cook with it . Whatever it tastes like out of the bottle , it will add that to the dish . Cook with a wine you might pair with the dish ( light wines for seafood , chicken ; heavier wines for meats and stews ) . Do n't use a fruity wine unless you want your dish to have some fruit notes . Do n't use a very dry wine if you 're making a sweeter dish .
Rice wine vinegar and rice vinegar are the same thing , so that 's easy . For additional pantry-stocking : Seasoned rice vinegar is just rice vinegar with a little salt &amp; sugar added . It 's intended to be the right mixture for a number of recipes , not the least of which is sushi rice , although in my experience you 're better off seasoning plain rice vinegar to the correct balance . Rice wine is , of course , sake . Generally if you 're cooking with rice wine you want a moderately priced , clear filtered sake like Gekkeikan . The same advice about cooking with regular wine applies here ; do n't try to cook with anything undrinkable . Mirin is a specific kind of light , sweet rice wine used in braised dishes , dipping sauces , steamed fish , etc. . If you ca n't find it , buy a drinkable sake and add around two teaspoons of sugar per 1/4 cup of sake .
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
Court-bouillon is an old French broth designed for subtle seafood dishes ( crayfish/lobster etc. ) . There is no " standard " for it The finished product should have a note of the wine and vinegar ( make sure you use a good quality wine and vinegar ) If you add the wine and vinegar too early they may have time to overly react with the other ingredients and make their flavours too strong ( ethanol and acids strip good and bad flavours from vegetables and herbs ) . If you add it to late it may have an overly powerful smell of wine and vinegar The simple trick is to add it nearer the end , and gently simmer for longer if the smell is too intense
In the oven , that heat is coming from all directions more or less equally . On the stovetop , the heat is coming only from the bottom . This can potentially cause convection , and almost certainly requires occasional stirring ( especially for larger batches ) , meaning that the ingredients are being moved around . The combination of the ingredients being heated more when they 're at the bottom and the movement can cause them to start breaking apart , and generally cook unevenly . Personally , I only find this to be an issue with beans and meat ( and it 's not something that 's going to cause failure ; it 's really just a refinement ) but if you are making an especially large batch of stew , you may want to try the oven .
If the problem you 're having is that it is too watery ( I assume that 's what you mean by " too thin " ) , there might be two causes : The recipe you linked to calls for a sizable amount of stock/broth , relative to the wine . It might be assuming that you have something closer to homemade stock , which has a high concentration of gelatin , as opposed to store-brought " broth " , which is more like meat-flavoured juice . You might not have reduced it enough . A " thin layer " could mean anything , but it 's not thickness you 're concerned about , it 's viscosity . When the sauce has been reduced enough , it should have the consistency of ... sauce . As in thick , sticky , and slow-moving . If it still looks and pours like water , it 's not reduced enough . On the subject of taste , there 's also the question of which wine you use . The wine sauce is going to taste like the wine ( stronger , actually ) , which is one of the reasons why chefs will tell you not to cook with any wine that you would n't drink . It 's pretty easy to make a reduction - just continue to let water boil off until it turns into the consistency you want . If you overdo it , you can always add a little extra wine to compensate . As noted in the comment clarification - if you 're simmering at a reasonable temperature , expect to wait at least an hour , and for no less than half the water to evaporate .
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
Assuming you do n't normally buy pre-brined / injected birds , you should notice a difference ... <URL> , it should be noticeably moist and tender , especially the white meat . A couple of things to try : Increase the time in the brine . 10 hours is plenty for breasts or quarters , but a whole chicken may take longer . A whole turkey will definitely take longer ! Check your salt . A cup of small-crystal table salt per gallon of water should be fine , but if you 're using flakes ( kosher and some sea salt ) , you may be producing too weak a brine ! If in doubt , weight it out . See also : <URL>
It probably wo n't hurt you , but I would n't risk it , just in case . Glazes for food containers are unlikely to contain lead , but may have other metals that are harmful in sufficient quantities . These include cadmium , barium , cobalt , strontium , chromium , and in the case of some older orange ceramic , URANIUM . Blue glaze is probably copper or cobalt based . I found a <URL> on ScienceDirect about high blood cobalt levels in association with lead poisoning from glazed Greek earthenware . This indicates that cobalt can indeed be leached out of the glaze and absorbed into the body . Cobalt is eliminated rapidly , but is moderately posionous , and copper is problematic in large quantities . Which brings this back to where I started : it wo n't kill you , and probably wo n't make you sick , but it 's not really worth the risk . File it in the same category as eating egg salad left out in the heat a few hours ? One other caution : prolonged contact with acid may damage and discolor your formerly handsome crock , in addition to leaching out these metals . To check for this , you can leave white vinegar in the container for a week or so , checking for change in color of the vinegar and the container every day .
There is not really a turning point . The way that wine goes bad is the process of making vinegar . From wikipedia : The word " vinegar " derives from the Old French vin aigre , meaning " sour wine " . The Canadian government limits things that can be sold as ' vinegar ' to something with an acetic acid content of 4-12 % , so you could do the technical-bureaucratic thing and wait for the acetic acid to get up to 4 % . If you are n't hung up on technicalities , then you can use it as soon as it gets sour enough . It is done when all the alcohol has been changed to acetic acid , but it is a bit hard to taste since the acetic flavor dominates .
Look for a strong motor and thick blades . If the blades are thin , they 're likely to warp over time . The motor needs to be able to spin those blades through the liquid . Look for a thick glass container . The plastic ones are unlikely to deal with the heat of things like soups and sauces being dumped in . Check the gasket between the glass container and the piece that attaches the blades . A thin , flimsy gasket is likely to start leaking before a thicker , softer gasket . Look at the number of teeth on the connection from the motor to the blade . The more teeth , the greater the surface area being used to distribute the power to the blade mechanism and is less likely to wear out . Overall , as with many things , one of the quickest ways to tell a good one is to weigh them both . The heavier item is better . No one pays for shipping extra weight unless it 's there for a good reason . ( note that the " heavier " rule does n't apply to electronics like cellphones/computers , etc. where the cost of making it small is actually higher )
I assume you are talking about the risk that the alcohol vapor from the wine mixes with the air and ignites . Let 's do some maths . I 'll do my calculations with some pretty round numbers , but in the end you 'll see that it does n't matter . Assume an average gas oven with a volume of 150l . According to Wikipedia , the absolute minimum mix of ethanol to air for ignition is 3 % , so that 's 4.5 l of pure ethanol vapor . Water expands at a rate of 1700 when it turns into steam . Assuming ethanol is in the same ballpark and add some entropy for higher temperatures , we 'll assume a factor of 2000 . That means we 'll need 4.5 l / 2000 = 2.25 ml of pure ethanol . In a typical bottle of red wine there is 12 % ethanol , so for a 750ml bottle , that is 90ml . As you can see , we have about 40 times the ethanol we need to make a nice boom . Now to answering your question : I would deem it probably safe to cook red wine in the gas oven . The burners are usually not in direct contact with the air inside the oven , and both the burners and oven is ventilated , so the ethanol would probably escape even before it could meet the required saturation . And even if the vapor was allowed to build up inside the oven and not get in contact with the gas flames , the self ignition temperature for ethanol is 363 ° C , far hotter than it 'll get in there . The most convincing argument that it 's safe is the millions of times chefs around the world have cooked with wine in a gas oven :)
There are several factors that increase price . Some are related to the objective quality of the wine , some indirectly linked , other are rather disconnected from quality ( but not necessarily irrelevant , as we 'll see ) . It 's also worth noting that being of high quality does n't necessarily mean being appealing to the average consumer . Apart from the stuff listed below , mass-market wines tend to be made in a non-challenging , easily accessible style . Lower tannin levels , less acidity and a generous amount of residual sugar ( say 10-30g / l ) makes for easy quaffing but little complexity or elegance . They can be very well-made , but the agriculture may not be very sustainable , and the fruit probably is n't of the highest quality . ( If you visit a winery at harvest when they bring in the bulk wine fruit , the meaning of " quality " becomes rather apparent . ) Wines targeted at connoisseurs , wine snobs and wine geeks ( such as yours truly ) tend have more structure ( tannins , acidity ) and are more often completely dry ( although there are of course high-quality off-dry , semi-sweet , and sweet wines ) . There 's a limit to how much a producer can spend to increase quality , a limit which varies with location ( because of salaries for workers etc ) but around $ 100 per bottle is probably in the right order of magnitude . This does not mean that all wines above this magical limit are equally good , though . A dirt-cheap wine will also have a cost associated to it which will be payed for by someone else , like under-payed harvest workers , the environment around the vineyard , etc. . Below are some factors that have a more or less direct link to wine quality and/or character : Yield per acre : Limiting the vineyard 's yield per acre ( which can be achieved by sparser planting , thinning / <URL> , old vines , etc ) increases the quality of the fruit , but you will produce less wine with more or less the same amount of work , which means you 'll have to adjust the price . Number of harvesting tries : At harvest , you can pick all the fruit of one vineyard at the same time and be done with it . Unfortunately , not all bunches ripen at exactly the same time , so to avoid over - or under-ripe grapes , you can make multiple tries ( French , pronounced " trees " ) over several days and pick each bunch at optimal ripeness . More tries inevitably means more work , and so , price increases . Selection : When the harvest is brought in , you can throw all the fruit into the press , or you can select the best grapes to make your wine ( and make brandy or a <URL> of the discarded grapes , or sell them on to a bulk wine producer ) . Being picky reduces the amount of wine produced , and so , prices increase . Drying : Some wines , like <URL> and <URL> , are made from partially dried grapes , and drying decreases the amount of wine you produce ( apart from being extra work ) which means - more expensive wine . Sparkling : Sparkling wines made with the <URL> - like <URL> and <URL> - need to be disgorged after bottle fermentation , which leads to a certain amount of waste ( a Cava producer I talked to said that around 10 % of the original wine is lost in disgorgement ) . Oak aging : Many wines are <URL> , which greatly affects the character of the wine compared to other types of containers , like concrete or stainless steel vats . ( More oak does n't mean better wine , of course . ) Oak barrels are horribly more expensive than the alternatives ( and European oak is more expensive than American , and they impart different character ) , and so , the more oak you use , the more expensive the wine gets . Aging in general : Most high-quality wine receive a bit of aging before consumption to let all components integrate ; some designations of origin even require aging prior to selling . <URL> Gran Reserva , for example , must be aged at least three years , with at least one of those years being on oak , while vintage <URL> is mandated to rest three years on the <URL> , etc. . Apart from time being money , you also need a suitable storage location ( cool and humid but not too cool and humid , secure but accessible to yourself , etc ) which is far from free . The price increases . Other factors are n't causally linked to higher quality , but tend to be connected : Reputation : If you 're an unproven winemaker you will be able to charge more if you 're operating in a district of high repute than if you 're working in an area where no-one has made quality wine before . Conversely , a well-known , high-quality producer expanding their operations to a somewhat less proven district will likely be able to charge more than their new neighbours . Brand : Marketing can take many forms , such as it advertising , tailoring wines to suit <URL> , and tends to push prices up . Wineries can even try <URL> . You can also be lucky and find some great , undiscovered producer ( do n't tell anyone ! except me , that is ) selling their wines at more-or-less cost price ( which probably still wo n't be dirt cheap , though ) . Land prices : Some spots are better for growing grapes . If you 're in
I 'd say there are basically two material options . Plain ( seasoned ) cast iron or enameled cast iron . I prefer enameled , because you do n't have to worry about keeping them seasoned -- just wash as you would any other pot -- and the enamel surface is easy to get clean . But they 're also more expensive by a significant margin . A properly maintained plain cast iron one will be awesome too , and do everything enameled will do for less money , so do n't rule it out . What you should consider : The foremost thing you want to look for is a heavy pot . Heavy bottom AND heavy sides and lid . You want something that holds a lot of heat when you need it to , and heavier often means more even heating and better searing ( crucial for braises and pot roasts ) . Consider the lid . It should fit well , without gaps or sliding around . Some have loop handles on the side or on the top , some have a knob on the top . All are fine , but keep in mind that a metal lid handle will be more durable with all the oven time your dutch oven will likely see . They say the plastic ones are OK ( Le Creuset , a trusted brand , uses them so they ca n't be that bad ) but I 'm not 100 % convinced . Whatever handle you get , think about how easy it 'll be to grasp wearing an oven mitt . Handles on the pot itself are a potential issue . Some plain cast iron pots will have a bucket-style bail handle , which I do n't think is that great for the kitchen , especially the oven . These are really intended for campfires and camp stoves , so I 'd avoid them . Sturdy , compact but easy-to-grip handles of any type are good . It 'll be heavy , so make sure you feel secure holding on . Size is another consideration , and it 's a tough one because it 's so individual . I think between 5.5 and 6.5 quarts is pretty standard and works for most cooks . A dutch oven is n't like a stock pot , where big is always good . You want one big enough to cook the things you want , but you do n't want it to be too huge for what you have in there , or you 'll give up a lot of cooking liquid to evaporation too fast . This is less crucial for soups and stews ( I 'd do soup in a regular stock pot ) , but for a braise it 's kind of important . So I would resist going too small , but do n't go too far , especially if you 're always cooking for two people . Also , bigger = heavier , so do n't let your eyes get bigger than your muscles ! Another option is shape , as they generally come in round or oval . Oval sometimes helps people who ca n't decide how big to go . With roasts being generally oblong , an oval pan can fit a proportionally larger roast without getting really huge . With a round pot , your whole pot needs to be at least as big around as your roast is long . Ovals are a little less common , however , and generally do n't come as big as round ones . They 're often more expensive too . Finally , do n't compromise too much on size or cost . Any halfway decent dutch oven , properly looked after , will last much longer than you will . Make sure you 're getting what you want , because you 'll be living with your decision a long time .
Marsala is a <URL> , that is , a wine to which extra alcohol has been added . Therefore , you can store Marsala outside of the fridge , in a cool place ( 15-20 ° C ) , away from direct light . In these conditions a bottle can sit there for several weeks/months with no obvious degradation , as you would expect for fortified wines . Generally it is suggested to drink Marsala or similar wines , such as Porto or Banyuls , in the following 4/5 months , but I had bottles opened for a year or so and they were still good , although the flavour faded a bit . As for Marsala all ' uovo , it has pasteurized egg yolks in it , and even home-made recipes call for a pasteurization step . In general I would store home-made one in the fridge to be on the safe side , but do not serve it too cold . Commercial ones may also have preservatives ( aside from the added alcohol of Marsala ) in them , and are safe to leave in a cool place for several weeks .
Wine vinegar and wine are very different although are produced from the same thing . Wine vinegars are vinegars produced from fermenting wine by acetic acid bacteria which convert the ethanol in wine into acetic acid . Being a vinegar , it is much sharper than wine although like wine many flavours can be detected beyond the generic sharp lemon-like flavour , particularly in the premium aged varieties such as balsamic vinegar from Modena . Wine vinegar has no alcoholic content in it and so there is no need to ' burn off the alcohol ' which you would do when cooking with wine . Wine has a much subtler flavour and so would use it in things like gravies , sauces , etc. . Likewise , vinegar is much stronger and I would mainly use it in vinaigrettes or in small quantities in cooking ( ie finishing of a dish with a small drizzle of vinegar ) in much the same way as you might use lemon .
Deglazing removes caramelized bits ( the " browned " bits ) from the bottom of your pan or skillet after cooking meats or vegetables . It is usually accomplished by putting stock , sauce , wine , or even water ( or really any liquid ) in the pan over heat after the pan has been emptied of whatever was cooked into it and any rendered fat and scraping the browned bits into that sauce with a spatula . The browned bits dissolve into your liquid to create an excellent sauce for whatever you just cooked in the pan .
I look for notes that give subsitutions . If the recipe creator ca n't be arsed to either provide subs or say " you really ca n't substitute , " then it seems to me they are n't so much interested in cooking as they are in must provide dogmatic formula . This does n't work for me . Notes along the way -- " you are looking for a texture like ... " " the colour should be ... but do n't worry if it looks like ... " -- are essential . A complete lack of " Oh by the way you should have done X an hour before you did Y " is non-negotiable . Anytime I cook through a recipe like that without reading first ( caveat emptor , I know ) I tend to end up swearing and throwing things . Timelines are key . ( By the way , I 'll be hanging onto this thread as it will definitely help me with the cookbook project I 'm working on . Thanks for asking ! )
The difference between red wines and white wines are that red wines are fermented with some of the skins , while white wines are not . Tannins come from the skins , and make people 's mouth feel dry , hence more tannins mean a wine is called dry . So you can not have a low tannin dry wine , as dry means tannic by definition . Much of a wine 's characteristics come from the properties of the earth , water , and climate that the grapes are grown in ( the french call the sum of these characteristics terroir ) , so you can get a dry wine from most grapes depending these factors . However , some grapes produce less tannic skins , and therefore overall produce less tannic , ie fruitier wines . Common fruitier red varieties are pinot noir , garancha ( granache ) , primitivo ( Zinfandel ) , and pinotage . All these varieties should be available in US supermarkets . If you can find an Oregon pinot noir then that would be my choice , they are very good value and great tasting wines . California zinfandel used to be considered cheap plonk ( because it was ) , but lately has had a resurgence and there are some fantastic wines from this grape .
It 's fine as written . Combining vinegar with baking soda ( or any acid with any base ) is usually done in baking to produce gas , which can lighten the finished product . This is an icing , which is applied after the baking process ; it 's not set to capture air bubbles , so any effect would be largely temporary and more easily produced through beating . The vinegar here is intended to mimic the tangy flavor of real cream cheese . The lemon juice has the same effect , but apple cider vinegar adds a different mix of acids , better matching the flavor of the real thing .
end question
start question
What plant-based ( non-dairy ) milk do not separate when making caffe latte ?
A good plant-based milk I 've had success with is hemp milk . I 'd say try coconut and almond milk , but these two are thinner in my experience , and tend to be less creamy . Hemp milk foams well , and is quite tasty . Like most things , do n't get it too hot , or it 'll break and be less desirable . That said , I never have problems in this regard with soy milk , but using non-soy is probably better for many other reasons .
The usual way is to use a thickener . Some of them require warming , but others do not . Guar or xanthan gum will work if used in the cold sauce . It is the easiest way . If you do n't have them , yuo can use gelatine , but you 'll have to dissolve it in warm liquid first and then add to the cold sauce , then wait to thicken . None of these will change the taste . If you are from the " no additives " fraction , you can just use a thicker dairy product . I do n't think the heavy whipping cream would be a particularly good fit to yogurt . The best choice would be a fermented product thicker than yogurt , e.g. sour cream or creme fraiche . But you can also use a cheese , although this will change the taste ( without making it bad or too different from the original ) . Good choices would be cream cheese , ricotta , quark , tvorog or mascarpone .
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
To release the bone marrow , which is excellent source of protein and has medicinal properties .
If you 're making a sauce that is n't supposed to curdle , and it does , you throw it out and start over .
I agree with Brendan 's answer above . Having also made freezer burritos ahead of time , I find that it helps if I put some source of re-heatable ' liquid ' in the wrap while preparing them ( e.g. salsa , not sour cream , for example ) . It might have something to do with steaming the food instead of directly heating it , maybe ? Let me know if that helps .
Depends on the apple . Apples with softer skins will bake to a more even consistency , but apples with tough skin ( the ' shiny ' kinds like McIntosh or Red Delicious ) tend to get caught in your teeth and throat , and are generally a pain to eat . If you do make a pie with the skins on , use smaller pieces of apple or slice around the apples to create shorter pieces of peel . These are easier to eat and do n't get caught in your mouth as much .
To expand upon baka 's comment : this would taste good without the cumin too ; it 'd just be a simpler flavor . You can then replace it with any other spice that appeals to you , since pork 's flavor is n't going to strongly clash with many spices . ElendilTheTall 's answer suggests one option ; I 'm sure you can come up with others . This gives you a chance to make your pork fit well with whatever other dishes are in your meal .
It 's a simple matter of viscosity , when eggs are cold the white is less runny . When eggs are warm the white is much more runny . As for whether it is easier to separate eggs when cold or warm it depends on your method . If you use the shells to separate the white , by cracking them in half and then transferring the yolk back and forth between the halves , then I 'd say cold is a bit better because once the white starts to drip out it tends to go as a whole . With warm eggs more white will stay in the shell with the yolk . However , if you use your hands to separate the eggs , by letting the white drip between your fingers ( or using an egg separator which does the same thing ) , warm eggs work much better because the runniness allows them to flow easier . This method works fine for cold eggs too , but warm is faster . Of the two methods I prefer using my hands rather than the shell for a few reasons : Less broken yolks : It 's easier to break a yolk when using shells It 's faster : especially if your eggs are room temperature you can separate eggs twice as fast this way You can whip the whites right away : Most of the time the reason you are separating the egg whites is to whip them into peaks , and warm whites whip better than cold whites . If your eggs are warm already then you can whip them right away , if they are cold you have to wait for them to warm up A handy trick if you are separating a lot of eggs is to separate each white into a separate bowl , then putting the white into a larger bowl with the rest of them . This is so if you get a bad egg , or a yolk breaks into the white you can discard the egg and keep the rest of them .
One reason to make your own butter is that you get distinctly different flavours depending on the type of cream you use . If you use fresh cream you get sweet butter which is popular in North America , Australia and Britain , but less easy to come by in continental Europe . If you use a cultured cream like Crème fraîche you get cultured butter , which is common throughout most of Europe . Cultured butter is slightly soured by lactic acid . It has a fuller , more complex flavour than sweet butter . If you decide to make it , be sure that you do n't use a cultured cream that includes artificial thickeners . The ingredient list should read something like " pasteurised cream , lactic-acid culture " ( apologies if that 's not accurate ; I 'm translating from Swedish ) . I have a couple of other reasons why I personally want to make butter . First of all my four year old son has been asking how butter is made , and this would be a great way show him . The second reason is that I 'm curious as to how real buttermilk tastes ( the buttermilk in the supermarkets is fermented milk ) . And last of all , I noticed that my beurre noir sauce was working out much better when I lived in Australia , so I 'd like to do some side-by-side comparisons with European butter .
Frothed milk is not essential to <URL> , it 's normally made with plain milk ; the frothed-milk version is mostly a Western variation . But I assume you like it with that little extra . You might try using a <URL> , you can get them much cheaper than the deluxe model I 've linked to here . If you 're very particular about your frothed milk though , it seems from some <URL> I found , that a proper milk steaming attachment as found on espresso machines is the way to go . The author of the instructions states that " With a little care , you can create steamed milk that is velvety smooth like the texture of wet shaving cream . The bubbles will be so small that you can barely see them ! This is the way it 's supposed to be , because this way , it will blend with the espresso , creating a harmony of the flavors instead of a dry , tasteless cap floating on top . " The same author provides instructions on how to make Masala Chai with or without frothed milk : In its most basic form , chai is black tea that is brewed strong with a combination of spices and is diluted with milk and sugar . The spices vary from recipe to recipe , but usually consist of cinnamon , cardamom , cloves , pepper and ginger . Chai tea is traditionally consumed hot and sweet . The sweetness is needed to bring out the full flavors of the spices . How to Make Chai Here is a simple recipe to make chai yourself at home . This is what you will need : [ ... ] Chai Latte I just love a good chai latte ! A chai latte is just the spiced tea mixed with milk that 's steamed from an espresso machine . I love the soft foamy texture the steamed milk adds to the chai . You can get these at coffee houses , or if you can make them yourself if you have an espresso machine . I have detailed instructions on <URL> in the coffee section of this site . You can follow the above directions just do n't add the milk . This makes a strong tea . Then add the steamed milk straight from the espresso machine . Practice to make velvety steamed milk and use fresh ingredients . This will insure that you make the perfect chai tea latte . Source : <URL> You may also want to take a look at the page titled " <URL> " on coffee-makers-cafe . com , which gives a comparison between different methods of frothing milk . But note that that page also states you will get the best results with an espresso machine 's steam wand : The only way to produce true microfoam is with a good quality steam wand that has enough pressure to swirl the milk and the ability to heat the milk to the correct temperature . You wo n't get microfoam with a frother . Microfoam is like a thick milk ... like runny-yoghurt in consistency . If you swirl it around in the jug it has a shiny , acrylic-like appearance .
The simple answer to your question is the kind of starch they use . Most use cornstarch or tapioca starch , neither of which contain gluten , so most powdered sugar should n't contain gluten . If the type of starch is n't listed , do n't buy that product . For absolutely no gluten , it gets a bit more complicated . A Google search for " Gluten Free Powdered Sugar " only yielded a few brands that make a " gluten-free " claim . Since most brands of powdered sugar do n't contain any ingredients that would normally contain gluten , look for the line " This product is processed in a facility that also processes wheat " . Choose a powdered sugar that lists the starch used as cornstarch , tapioca starch or other non-gluten starch and that does n't have that line on the label . Of course I can only speak to US labeling , other countries may be different . One brand , Domino Sugar , stood out to really stand by their claim of gluten free . <URL> ( C&amp;H is Domino , BTW ) . I happen to have some C&amp;H powdered sugar , so I looked at the label . There is no " Gluten-Free " claim on the label , but the ingredients listed are only sugar and corntarch , and there is no " this product is processed in a facility ... " warning . Walmart brand also pops up on the " Gluten Free Powdered Sugar " search , they say " Naturally gluten-free food " . The FDA requires that claim not be misleading , so if they do use equipment to process the sugar that also processes gluten-containing ingredients , the sugar can not contain more that 20 ppm gluten . There is one way to know for sure about any ingredient you use , or to even to check your final dish . Elisa Technologies , a very well respected name in medical laboratory testing , has put out home test strips sensitive to 10 ppm , that 's half the concentration of gluten the FDA allows for a product to be certified " gluten-free " . If a product tested contains less than 20 ppm gluten the US , Canada and the European Union allow that product to use " Gluten Free " on the label . <URL> At over $ 10 a strip , you 'd want to use them judiciously , but if I or someone I loved had serious health issues that did not allow gluten , I 'd get these strips . <URL>
The biggest reason to heat milk to almost boiling before fermenting is that it improves the texture of the yogurt . During fermentation the bacteria consume lactose and produce lactic acid which causes the milk proteins to denature and coagulate trapping most of the fat . The proteins involved are primarily the casein proteins . When this happens , there is still quite a bit of protein left that is n't bound up in the new casein mesh . All of the albumin proteins are water soluble and will not add to the structure of the yogurt . These albumin proteins denature when they are heated . For this reason recipes universally call for the milk to be heated to 190 and then cooled . The albumin is denatured and is able to tangle up with the casein during fermentation and add to the yogurt structure . Skipping this step will make a very profound difference to the structure of your yogurt . Without it your yogurt will be thinner and much more fragile . When you scoop it there will be more whey and all that albumin will wash out in it . According to Harold McGee ( On Food and Cooking pp 48 ) " These treatments improve the consistency of the yogurt by denaturing the whey protein lactoglobulin , whose otherwise unreactive molecules then participate by clustering on the surfaces of the casein particles . With the helpful interference of the lactoglobulins , the casein particles can only bond to each other at a few spots , and so gather not in clusters but in a fine matrix of chains that is much better at retaining liquid in its small interstices . "
If you 're planning to smoke your sausages , natural casings will allow for greater smoke penetration than many non-natural casings , and they wo n't impart any odd flavors of their own to the meat . That said , when you first open a container of natural casings , they may have a strong smell because of gas build-up ; let them air out ( in the fridge ! ) and they 'll be fine .
Folding a burrito is serious business . Get it wrong and you 'll end up dumping most of the contents all over the place and look like a burrito noob . Get it right and your hands and plate will be perfectly clean , and you 'll no longer be hungry . Beware : publicly flaunting these skills might lead to people wanting you to fold their burritos for them . General Tips First off : make sure your tortilla is ready to be folded . A cold or dried out tortilla is likely to crack or split . Use a warm and moist tortilla . Second : do n't overfill the tortilla . If you have small tortillas do n't try to make a giant burrito and expect that to work . How to fold Now that we have the basics out of the way let 's get to folding . See <URL> ( which I 've converted into an image here ) : Place the contents in the approximately center of your partially folded tortilla . Leave plenty of room on the ends otherwise you 'll most surely have food spilling out once it 's folded up . Hold the filled tortilla so the weight of the filling pulls it tight . If your burrito busts through now , it will certainly burst later . If not , proceed to step 2 . Fold one end towards the center . Fold the other end over . Roll the bottom ( the end nearest you ) up towards the top . This is n't the intuitive way , but it 's the right way . Make sure not to let the food squeeze out . I hold it with my fingers at the crease where the bottom edge that 's been folded up meets the food . Keep rolling it up . Om nom nom .
By " Italian Sausage " I think you mean the seasoned pork sausage available in many supermarkets throughout the US . I 've found that a 30-70 mix of beef and turkey/chicken works reasonably well as a substitute when pork is not available . Beef is too strong a flavor and turkey too weak in its own . Flavor-wise most italian sausage has red wine , fennel , and oregano .
Generally with baking you mix all the wet ingredients , then all the dry , then incorporate the latter into the former . This prevents clumping and helps make sure everything is mixed uniformly . In some recipes , adding the eggs ( often un par un , or one by one ) also contributes ( via the yolk 's supply of lecithin ) to emulsifying e.g. butter and milk together . The best way to find out , of course , is to experiment . Next time you 're making these cookies , make a double batch . Do one according to the recipe , and the other your way . Honestly with cookies I doubt you 'll see much difference ; they 're basically foolproof ( I have , when in a hurry , made chocolate chip cookies by dumping everything in the mixer , whacking it about with the paddle attachment , and then folding in the actual chips . Worked fine , basically ) . When it comes to baking things that are more finicky -- cakes etc -- I would follow the recipe directions .
Reducing a mixture is simply boiling out water present in the solution . Adding a starch ( either cornstarch or other flours ) does n't remove that water but instead causes the starch to expand and " trap " some of the water . Cornstarch in particular <URL> when there is n't enough moisture in the base mixture , or if there 's too much fat or sugar present , so it 's not suitable for really rich sauces , for example <URL> . It also does n't work well in acidic mixtures like tomato sauce . The worst thing you can do for a cornstarch-thickened mixture is to cook it at a high temperature ( i.e. more than a moderate simmer ) or for an extended period of time . These will expand the starch granules so much that they pop , breaking the cornstarch and causing the sauce to thin again . So , be very careful of cooking temperature when using a cornstarch slurry . I have also found that cornstarch does n't respond very well to cooling and re-heating , so it 's not the best solution if you plan on saving some of the sauce for later use .
The chai tea latte at Starbucks is made from the <URL> concentrate . This product is available at supermarkets and online , and is mixed with milk to make a product not unlike what you have at Starbucks ( minus the foam , as you pointed out ) . So , what are these flavors ( say , if you wanted to make this from scratch ) ? The website mentions that the black tea is malty . You could likely reproduce that with a maltier tea like Assam , though the box also says a " a rich blend of flavorful teas " , meaning that a stronger blend like English Breakfast might be a closer match . It looks like you are on the right track with the spices as well : cinnamon , ginger , cardamom , and cloves are all listed , though the website mentions black pepper , star anise , and vanilla in addition , which ought to lift your cup of chai a bit as well .
One reason is simple appearance , I think - opaque white liquids or saps have long been called " milky " , including nut milks , coconut milk , dandelion or milk thistle saps , and several other white substances . Nut milks get called milk because they look like milk to the eye . Another reason is that nut milks behave like milks in recipes - they are emulsions with sugars , proteins , and fats ... fruit juices tend to have nutrients and sugars , mostly , they behave rather differently in cooking . Almond milk was a long held substitute for animal milk in medieval times because it was more reliable - the nuts would be shelf-stable , while actual milk could spoil within hours . It is worth pointing out that nut milks were substitute for so long because they worked in dishes calling for milk , at both the chemical level and for rough flavor profiling . Also , it is probably worth noting that nut milks taste like milk , as well - a mellow flavor , very mild and a bit rich . The flavor is n't strong or sweet like other juices . They are different from cow 's milk , true , but perhaps nut milks are not immensely more different from cow 's milk than it is different from sheep 's milk or goat 's milk . In the end , nut milks get called milk because they seem similar , and there 's no other category they fit into more neatly . If it is to label them as an alternative , it is a very old label , and for an alternative that works very well in nearly all applications . Ps : if it helps , the nutrients extracted from the almonds into the milk were produced by the parent tree and intended to sustain the baby almond-plant ... so the major difference is that the plant stores the milk in solid form , not whether it was meant for the next generation or not
end question
start question
Flank steak came out chewy this time . What 's to blame ?
I would suggest from the information you 've provided so far , that the most likely cause is that you 've overcooked it . There are a couple reasons that might have happened . Pan What pan you choose matters here . If you do n't have a powerful stove ( ideally gas for stir frying ; or induction with the right sort of wok adapter ) , then a flat stainless skillet is your best bet . If you have the right stove , then a thinner wok is ideal as it 'll recover heat more quickly . Heat How high is " really high " ? Do you have gas ? induction ? crappy old electric ? Not all stoves are made equal . If you 're stir frying something ( especially something like flank steak ) . You want to cook it very very , hot . You also want to cook it quickly . Do n't crowd the pan . Assuming your average electric home setup : I 'd use a flat bottomed stainless steel skillet . Let it heat up dry until it 's super hot . Drop a droplet of water onto it , if it beads up and dances around you 're good . Add some oil . Add a single layer of meat until it 's cooked . If you 're stove is n't hot enough , you 're not going to recover heat as quickly as a pro range . Let it cook a bit before flipping it over . If you happen to have a powerful enough stove , then a wok is your best bet . Same deal heating it up and adding oil . This time , you can keep it moving till it 's browned . I 'd take it out as soon as I did n't see any red . With both cooking methods , I would n't add it back to the heat except to mix it with everything else . ( Cook meat and remove . Cook vegetables and remove . Stir fry noodles if desired . Throw everything in , add sauce and combine and then remove ) . Cut You 've said you cut it across the grain , so I 'll assume this is n't your problem . It 's worth reiterating for anyone else 's benefit , as this is the most common problem . Depending on how sharp your knife is , you could try going even thinner than 1/4 " . If there 's any chance your 1/4 " is more than a 1/4 " that would be a negative , as it 's going to toughen up as it 'll take too long to cook . If you have trouble cutting it thin enough , you could freeze it for about 30 min to an hour before cutting . It 's a lot easier to get thin cuts that way . If it came frozen , just cut before fully defrosted .
Marinading should help a great deal , especially a good long marinade . The only other thing you can do is make sure not to overcook the beef . Cutting against the grain does n't guarantee tenderness any more than any other method will , it just helps , so do n't worry too much .
Fine mesh sieve is the usual way , but the way you describe it , yours is not fine enough . Look in professional stores for a " chinois " , this is the kind of sieve you need . But yes , it will take a long time . In classic restaurants , the stock will be cleared before going through the chinois . This is done by floating a rack of eggwhite which bounds the stray proteins . It is at least as slow as the cheesecloth , but more nerve wracking , because you have to do it manually , and it is rather finicky and can easily go wrong . I remember reading about a modern trick of clearing which used gelatine and freezing the stock without a mesh or a rack , but do n't know any more what it was . Maybe somebody else has read it and can supply the details . Edit I returned home and looked the freezing method up ; it is listed in the book " Cooking for geeks " . It contains the sentence As the water in the stock freezes , it will push the impurities into the gelatin The book also has pictures . They show that you do n't end up with fine protein sediment clogging your sieve and finest slit in the stock . The first picture shows the drip-freeze filtered stock compared to the same stock filtered at 100 microns , the difference is large . The second picture shows that after the procedure , what stays in the sieve are cohesive pieces of gelatine with the particles trapped inside , not a film of the scum . So it seems that there is a reason for freezing first . For home use , I just do n't bother clearing my stock , I just use a tea sieve to remove the worst of the protein . When simmered without allowing it to boil , this produces reasonably good stock without all the fuss .
I 've never done this , but what about filling the bowl with water , lowering the spinning basket into it so the lettuce shreds lift off , then dumping it out ?
White sugar is generally <URL> and has been heavily refined , so it wo n't undergo any chemical changes over time . In fact , sugar is actually <URL> . Brown sugar is a bit different . It gets hard simply because it loses moisture - i.e. the water evaporates - and that wo n't cause the taste to change . However , some people have reported brown sugar actually <URL> ( also <URL> ) . This fermentation is more likely to happen than in white sugar due to the presence of molasses . It takes a long time for fermentation to occur , but it can definitely occur , and that will most certainly change the flavour . I 'm not sure if I 'd call it " losing " the flavour ; some might argue that the presence of alcohol is a good thing , although fermented sugar obviously will not be as sweet . I would not worry about the flavour of brown sugar that has merely hardened ; if it smells like alcohol , though , you might want to be more careful .
Any meat that is good for fast cooking ( BBQ , frying , grilling etc. ) will be suitable for this . Do not use meat that is normally casseroled or slow cooked . For beef this is the non-exercised top parts of the cow . Typical western cuts are called sirloin , rump , and fillet You need very thin slices of meat more than cubes if you want any level of browning and cooking to be achieved The easiest way to do this is to partially freeze you meat for one to two hours in a normal domestic freezer . A slab of meat with a profile of around 30 x 80 mm ( ± 50 % ) is the easiest to handle . Use a sharp chef 's knife or meat cleaver and slice it into 2 to 3 mm thin slices which will cook very nicely on a pizza A well marbled ( mixed fat content ) cut would work better , like in this picture
Again assuming you 're using the same recipe ... I do n't think you need to leap to different kinds of flours as in <URL> . You could be using the same type ( probably all-purpose ) and even the same brand , but purchased and stored somewhere else ; it 'll end up with a different moisture content , and perhaps fluffed differently , so your volume measurements might not actually end up getting you the same amount of flour . If you 're trying to follow her recipe exactly , there 's really no harm in simply reducing the flour a bit to get the texture you remember .
A difference I see between your recipe and other alternatives is that you do n't have any other starch besides your rice . Other recipes include a good amount of tapioca or potato starch . The other difference was that other recipes used rice flour instead of rice . You might also want to consider a change in technique . You can make rice noodles like a crepe rather than in an oiled steamer pan . Simply use a non-stick or oiled crepe pan , put in batter to crepe thickness , and let it cook until it begins to pull away from the edge of the pan . Invert and release in one motion onto a cutting board and slice .
You can use Crisco All-Vegetable Shortening : its is on PETA 's ( People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ) shopping list of baking goods , but can work just as well for frying as lard .
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
It depends on what type of lettuce it is -- part of the issue is that if the lettuce is touching plastic , it will rot quicker , so I wrap it in paper towels , then bag it ( but not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . For whole heads of lettuce ( iceburg , butter , red leaf , etc ) , I just wrap the whole thing in dry paper towels , then shove it back into the bag from the grocery store or farmer 's market . I then pull off leaves as I need it , and re-wrap it . It stores for well over a week this way . For mescalin mixes , arugula , or other individual leaves , I 'll wash them , dry them , then unroll enough paper towels to spread the leaves on , then roll up the whole thing , and bag the roll ( again , not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . I can probably get a week out of it this way . ( all times assume you 're not buying from a store where it 's been sitting on the shelf too long before you buy it ; I get my lettuce when I can from the local farmer 's market ) So , to answer the specific questions : keep the bag open ; you do n't want moisture to condense inside the bag , as it 'll make the lettuce rot faster . I get better storage time with heads of letuce keeping them whole . If you 're going to be eating it all within 2-3 days , it probably does n't matter , and for loose lettuce , I find it more convenient to wash it as I re-pack it anyway . You never want to store lettuce wet ... you might be able to store it completely submerged , but damp will lead to it rotting faster .
It is almost certainly either fat , water , or a combination of the two which was squeezed out of the cheese as a result of the heating . The heating would cause the proteins in the cheese to further tighten , squeezing out the liquid , which is why you may not see it until heating the cheese .
Because onions contain a lot of flavour compounds that we like , and which are synergistic with meats .
There should be no adjustments required : Yes , two pots take a few minutes longer to heat up than one , but with 4-5 hours total , it should n't matter .
Genuine fajitas are made with skirt steak . The most important thing you can do when making fajitas is marinate appropriately . That recipe calls for a dismally short marination time ( 30 mins to an hour ) . When I make fajitas I marinate them a minimum of 4 hours , though typically overnight . I usually use a combination of soy sauce , lime juice , garlic , olive oil and salt in a zip-loc bag . Another thing to be aware of is how you slice the meat . If you bought your fajita meat presliced from a good butcher , then chances are he cut it properly - against the grain . If it 's a random supermarket butcher you may or may not have had it cut properly . If you cut the meat yourself , make sure you slice it across the grain , otherwise you 'll be chewing some very tough long proteins . Also , as with any meat , do n't overcook it . Medium rare is just fine for a skirt steak . Some people will substitute a flank steak for a skirt steak when making fajitas . Flank tends to be a little less tough , but not as flavorful . The above marination and cutting guidelines apply to flank steak as well . Update - I also notice that the recipe suggests 3-4 minutes per side for medium rare . This does n't sound right to me if the grill is on high heat . Skirt and flank steaks are rather thin and 2 minutes per side on a hot grill should be medium-rare . Also , make sure you let it rest . I usually rest any steak for 5 minutes , not 3 as the recipe suggests .
In a cup with water . You place them straight up in a small cup with a little water . Just like you would if you were storing flowers . You 'll want to store this in your chill chest on the top most rack ; to avoid any cross contamination from other possible food products ( chicken , etc ) . You may want to leave the rubber band on to allow it to stay tidy . If you must you can cover your asparagus cup with a zip lock bag on top . With this method we usually can store asparagus for 5-7 days . If you must keep them longer it maybe better to just freeze them in an air tight bag . after they 're dried out .
Harvest time can have a large effect on the quality of the tea . First off , whether it was the first harvest of the year or a later one will greatly change the character of the tea . The dates can also be used similar to the vintage dates of wine . If you got a tea from a specific region and know the date of the harvest , if you find another tea from the same region and same date , it will have been grown under similar conditions . Also , since black and oolong teas have been oxidized , the oxidation process will continue to some extent as the tea ages , further changing the flavor . The date can be used to predict freshness , and also to find a tea that suits your tastes better ( for instance , I know that I like many black teas better after they have aged for a year or two ) .
the amount of flour is likely the culprit . Flour is very sensitive to moisture and can change volume a surprising amount so that the two cups may not be two cups . Also make sure you are not scooping the flour out with your measuring cup , but filling it with another implement before leveling off the top with a straight edge . As you are after a not-quite-bread-like consistency , even though you are using high-gluten flour ( in the bread flour called for ) you do n't want a full bread-like texture Letting the yeast rise Many sweet breads do something similar . Cinnamon buns for example . It again affects the crumb and texture of the final product . It also slows down the yeast as it notes in the recipe when you refrigerate for just a little bit . The rise the next morning should give you nice small bubbles .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
It depends greatly on how hungry I am . :-) 350F for about an 60-90 minutes , depending on how many are in there . 425F for about 40-60 if I 'm hungry and impatient . Microwave on high for a few minutes ( few holes poked in it with a fork ) if I 'm really hungry and really impatient . They 're done when a fork goes in easily .
end question
start question
How long in fridge for sushi steaks ?
I have always made sure that I only defrost enough to meet the needs of the moment for sushi . If you cut the blocks into 4 to 8 rolls worth , they should defrost under running water in just fifteen to twenty minutes , just about the time it takes me to do a batch of sushi rice . That said , fish once defrosted will start to lose flavor immediately but will remain edible for 2 days . Once it starts to smell , get rid of it immediately , and I would play it very safe on that " starts to smell " the faintest whiff should be enough to send it to the bin .
Paul , I make my own pasta dough frequently . Since my standard recipe makes around 40oz ( 1 kg ) of dough , I always have leftover , so I 've had plenty of experience with saving it . Even with eggs , pasta dough will be fine in the fridge for a week ; the texture will be unaffected ( if anything , it will be better ) . If you want to keep it longer than a week , it can be frozen for several weeks wrapped tightly in plastic wrap , and more-or-less indefinitely if you vacuum-seal it . Glad to hear about your WWW recipe , I 'll have to try that .
The USDA recommends storing hard boiled eggs , whether peeled or not , for 1 week . I personally have kept &amp; eaten them after 2-3 weeks . I have also cracked one open that was no longer edible &amp; believe me - You will know when that happens ! The egg will will smell rotten &amp; you will have no question as to whether or not to eat it ! Some additional Info on storing eggs : Eggs should be stored in a refrigerator at about 40 degrees F , mainly to reduce the chances that any bacteria on the shell will multiply and cause a risk of illness . Buy refrigerated eggs and store them in the refrigerator as soon as your get home . However , even under refrigeration , eggs slowly lose carbon dioxide , which enlarges the size of the air cell and causes the yolk to flatten and the white to spread . Fresh Egg - Refrigerated raw shell eggs will keep without significant quality loss for about 4 - 5 weeks beyond the " sell by " date or about 3 weeks after you bring them home . Fresh egg whites - 2 to 4 days Fresh egg yolks ( unbroken and covered with water ) - 2 to 4 days Deviled eggs - 2 to 3 days Leftover egg dishes - 3 to 4 days
Circular bed of sticky sushi rice , topped with a drizzle of spicy mayo as the sauce and chunks of sashimi . cut into pizza slices .
Like many crafts which originated in Japan , their sushi training more or less creates sushi artisans . If you just want to make a snack , you 'll have plenty of ability given a basic review of techniques . You should focus your learning on understanding food-safety , getting the rice right , and making the roll not fall apart . The rest is just levels of mastery which you need not approach in your kitchen in order to experiment and enjoy a good dish .
Short answer : storing food in an open can is normally safe for a short period , but inadvisable . Longer answer : There are three main issues with storing foods in an open can . They are metal oxidation , contamination , and funk . Oxidation . As commenters have observed , cans used to be made of tin , which is toxic . Modern cans are made from either steel or aluminum . If the contents of the can are acidic , cans are lined with a polymer ( plastic ) inner layer . If that layer is broken -- say , by a major dent in the can or by using a knife to scrape out contents -- then the acid can get to the metal and , over time , corrode it , and some of the now-oxidized metal will dissolve into the food . As far as we know , the oxidized metal is not toxic , but it tastes horrible . Contamination . Any open container of food can become contaminated when an airborne water droplet ( tiny -- microns wide ) containing a nasty microbe drips or settles into it . The major biological culprit here is Listeria , which can grow in any moist environment , including spaces refrigerated below 40F ( 5C ) . Also , if juices from your raw meat drips onto an upper shelf , which later gets wiped inadvertently into your container of ready-to-eat food , you are likely to get Salmonella or E coli . This risk can be mitigated if you keep your raw meats on the lowest shelf , but not eliminated . Also , it is worth noting that contamination through this pathway is a relatively rare event -- but even so , it is not worth the risk . Funk . Have you ever put an ice cube in your beverage and notice your beverage tastes strange ? The chemical compounds that give food their flavor tend to be volatile ( meaning they will readily leave the food into the surrounding air ) . Also , the mustiness of a refrigerator/freezer is due to volatile compounds produced by mold and mildew . Foods that are wet and/or fatty can be molecular velcro to these compounds .
When I make a paella I never cover it , I find it keeps in too much moisture . My uncovered method is to put the fish in and cook for 10 minutes . If my mussels are small I will usually wait 2-3 minutes before putting them in , bu for " standard " mussels 10 minutes seems to work well . I use a low-medium heat on a large burner .
I can give you the traditional aproach my <URL> uses : Harvest season is just a few weeks per year . The mill will during that time buy the amount of grain they need for one year - from harvest to harvest . The grain gets sorted , tested , dried and cleaned if necessary , and is then put into storage . During the year , it gets milled . The two factors here are capacity and demand . A mill works year-round , it makes no sense to let the machines stand idle for a long time . So there is a maximum capacity they can process per year - and a good management wo n't buy more . Also , there are times of higher demand ( think holiday baking ) which need more flour to be milled in advance . The grain should rest for a few weeks after harvest for better quality . I 'm no scientist , but I trust my miller on this . A good mill will strive to sell the flour as soon as possible after it is milled , partly for economic , but mostly for quality reasons . While especially white flour wo n't spoil for months ( recommended : one year ) , darker or especially whole grain flours get rancid quickly and quality decreases . ( E.g. changes in taste and moisture content and enzymatic degradation which influence the baking process and results . ) The whole grains on the other hand can easily be stored for well over a year , multiple years in fact . Big industrial mills work in a similar way , just on a way larger scale and the flour has a longer time from mill via stores to the customer .
According to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkin , and it yields the best quality product . Select full-colored mature pumpkin with fine texture ( not stringy or dry ) . Wash , cut into cooking-size sections and remove seeds . Cook until soft in boiling water , in steam , in a pressure cooker , or in an oven . Remove pulp from rind and mash . To cool , place pan containing pumpkin in cold water and stir occasionally ( So Easy to Preserve , 2006 ) . Pack into rigid containers leaving headspace , and freeze . They offer suggest a variety of cooking methods before freezing the flesh of the pumpkin , but you may find that roasting offers the least work and best flavor development . Pressure canning of cubed ( but not mashed or pureed ) pumpkin is also possible ( as pumpkin is a low acid fruit , boiling water canning is not appropriate ) . You should use only a <URL> if you choose to go this route . You can also make <URL> , although this does not to leave the pumpkin suitable for many recipes , and is only suitable if this the actual product you desire .
I would store them outside , not inside the fridge . Fridge temperatures make anything containing flour go stale quickly . Of course , sometimes people have to live with it , such as when they have made a cake with perishable icing or filling . But cookies are not perishable , so they are better stored outside of the fridge . As to whether to put them in a sealed container or not , it depends on the cookie . The harder type does all right in the air , and can get flaccid in a sealed container . If they are soft , they are probably better off covered . It is still preferable to not isolate them completely , a canvas bag or a bread box with ventilation slits does better .
The cheesecake kept for 1 year just fine with no discernible off flavors or other problems . I 'm a homebrewer and we wound up putting the cheesecake into the freezer section of our spare ' beer fridge ' . That freezer is pretty much only used for overflow freezer space , and the refrigerator section is used for beer bottles and kegs , and we have had a few apples in the crispers for most of the year , but that 's it . The freezer section was rarely opened more than once per week . The cheesecake had no off flavors , and only had light water crystallisation on the surface , which was not at all detrimental to our enjoyment of the cake . This was a plain ' real ' cooked cheesecake with graham cracker crust . So , for a ' good enough ' storage method , wrap loosely in foil and store in a freezer that is rarely used , and the cheesecake should be excellent for at least one year .
Truffles are a low acid food , and they grow underground , so they are at risk to have botulism spores present . Vacuum packing creates a low oxygen environment , which is what the botulism bacteria requires to grow and produce its toxin . Unless the truffles have been salted ( to 5 % by weight ) , acidified ( to a pH of 4.6 or lower ) , or frozen ( at all times after being vacuum packed ) , they are at risk for the growth of botulism . Some strains can grow and produce their toxins at refrigerator temperatures ( and most refrigerators have a temperature cycle that peaks in the more general growth range ) . While the growth is slow , it can occur . The risk is increased if the truffles have not been continuously refrigerated since they were vacuum packed . For this reason , mushrooms and truffles should never be vacuum packed and stored . You should discard these truffles . In the future , obtain your truffles from a reputable source ( which does not vacuum pack ) and use them fresh , or freeze them as botulism is not active at freezer temperatures . See also : University of Colorado Extension fact sheet on <URL>
Buttermilk is already thoroughly packed with live bacteria . During its manufacture , that bacteria already consumed some portion of the available lactose and turned it into lactic acid . Because of the lack of food , acidity , and the extreme competition it is pretty hard for buttermilk to go bad . The good bacteria will stay active and the buttermilk will get thicker and more sour until it runs out of lactose . In fact - when your buttermilk container has about 1/2 cup left you can make more just by refilling the container with milk and leaving it to ferment on the counter for a day . If you use it up more quickly than the bacteria eat the lactose then you can keep this up indefinitely . Do n't worry if it is thicker - if it still smells good then it probably is . As Noctrine said - mold around the lip is the worst risk . I am not a food chemist and despite my personal experience - if you ever suspect that food is bad just throw it out . $ 2 of buttermilk is n't worth an unpleasant afternoon .
They are okay to eat . The sprouts on the other hand can be very acidic and SHOULD NOT be eaten . As long as you make sure you wash the potato thoroughly you should n't have to worry .
There are 2 ways of looking at it ; how long it will be safe to eat ( ie from food poisoning ) and how long it will still be appetizing and taste alright ( ie not gone rancid ) . As you 've taken it from the tin it wo n't get that tinny flavour but as time goes on may absorb other flavours from the fridge so make sure you keep it away from anything that is strongly smelling . Also as around 87 % of the coconut milk is fats it will soon go rancid , so keep that in mind , ( you 'll know when it does by giving it a quick sniff ) . In terms of food safety , if it 's UHT which most are , then it could probably last for a long time ( as long as UHT milk ) so about 2 1/2 weeks I 'd say . Otherwise if it 's not UHT then not as long . I would say about the same time as fresh milk so around a week as it contains sugars and fats and so is a very compelling proposition for any bacteria . Other sites discussing this : <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Hope this helps !
Yes , store them individually . First , wrap them tightly in plastic wrap , preferably one that says it 's specifically for freezer use . Then wrap this tightly in aluminum foil . They 'll keep for months without freezer burn this way .
Surely you figured something out by now , but here is what I would do . First , look closely and carefully for surface mold . Look around the rim of the container . If that is clear , smell the oil for rancidity . If it stinks , throw it out . At this point , it looks good and it smells good . I ca n't imagine a dish where the roux is not thoroughly heated , so unless you are pioneering some kind of cold ingredient , cold roux dish , I think you are good to go . The sealed roux in the fridge should behave like a confit and retard spoilage for a while . If you did a dark roux ( like a cajun style ) it should last a really long time . They sell it in jars in New Orleans supermarkets , and if memory serves , the jar said something like 90 days in the fridge after opening .
You can kind of knead them a little with your hand . Just roll them on the board to break up the " fibers "
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
Your best bet for preserving quality ( and safety ) is to re-seal the bag , then leave them in the fridge for a bit . You want them to thaw a little , so you can pry them apart . Its safe to re-freeze after this ( as the meat never entered the danger zone , indeed it probably never got above ~ 30 ° F ) . There will be some quality loss from the partial thaw-freeze cycle . I recommend waiting to do this until you 'll be cooking at least one of the steaks . Now , how to freeze them : Freezing in vacuum bags is n't special . Just like with freezing in ziplock bags , freezer paper , foil , etc. , you need to freeze individual servings individually . If you want to economize on vacuum bags , you can try one of : Wrap the steaks in plastic wrap or freezer paper to freeze . Once frozen , transfer to vacuum bag and draw vacuum . Place two steaks in the bag next to each other , separated by ~ 1in ( depending on thickness of steak , you want the bag to be able to conform to the shape of the steak ) . If you 're using an external vacuum machine like a FoodSaver ( as opposed to a $ 600 + chamber machine ) , the steaks may be pulled together as it sucks out the air ; press your finger down on the plastic between them to keep them apart . Separate steaks with freezer , parchment , or waxed paper ( you can try plastic wrap , but they may freeze together anyway ... ) in one bag . You can stack them on top of each other , or put the immediately next to each other ( without the 1in space ) , or both . Freeze after sucking air out . There is a disadvantage to stacking things thicker to freeze ( as in the last suggestion ) : generally speaking , the faster you freeze something , the more quality is retained . And of course the thicker it is , the longer it takes to freeze through . If you 're cutting from rolls , remember that each time you open and re-seal the bag , you 're going to cut off an inch or so of plastic , depending on your vacuum machine . Cut the bag big enough to accommodate this .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between latte , mocha , and all the other drinks on a coffee-house menu ?
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
It mostly depends on the heat used . If you are cooking at a high enough heat that vegetables and thinly-sliced meats ( if using ) are cooked through in only a few minutes then it matches with the term generally used as " <URL> " . In this heat , if you stop stirring even for a moment , pretty much , the food at the hottest part of the pan ( at the base , near the flame ) will start to burn . It needs to be in motion constantly . That 's the stir part of the stir-fry -- constant motion up the curved sides where it is cooler and letting other parts of the food go to the bottom to the heat and around and around . A full dish of meat , veg , noodles , etc can be completely cooked start to finish in just about 5 minutes . <URL> demonstrates stir-frying baby bok choy in 2 1/2 minutes of cooking time for the veg , <URL> for 2 minutes , and <URL> at 3-5 minutes . <URL> should also be at a fairly high heat and generally with less oil ( although stir-frying does n't use a lot of oil either , usually ) . The heat is lower than what is implied by stir-fry . With sautéing you are still generally keeping things moving , but it does n't need to be quite as frantic . You can let things stop a moment , and it can help to let them start to brown and caramelize . To demonstrate , <URL> for sautéed baby bok choy cooks them for 7 minutes , <URL> for 9-11 minutes , <URL> cooking it for 4 minutes . The fastest of these is twice as slow as most of the the stir-fry or about the same as the slowest stir-fry . The slowest of these sauté recipes is nearly 3-5 times as slow as the stir-fry with fairly similar ingredients , especially similar to the slowest of the stir-fry recipes . But to be fair , <URL> I was , strictly speaking , abusing the term sautéing by conflating it with even more moderate temperatures ( which are more properly simply called " pan frying " ) . A kadai is a good implement to use for stir-frying , but a kadai can also be used for cooking at a slightly lower temperature . Simply using a kadai does not 100 % determine the end result will be either a stir-fry or a sauté or a gentle fry , or even deep-frying . It 's a versatile vessel . :-)
I 've only heard of massaging kale . If you rub the greens together they get softer , darker and more tender and useable in a salad . Never done it with anything else . Wilted is steamed or blanched greens . Wilting definitely changes the texture and can make the greens more palatable and less bitter . I wo n't eat raw collards . I also always salt and squeeze my cooked spinach before using as it knocks out the bitterness .
The difference for green onions will be most noticable if you do n't cook them . Instead , slice them up and use them for a garnish over the dish . The white portion of the green onion will still be oniony , but not quite as strong as a raw red onion . Slice them thinly and use for garnish if you really want to bring out the onion qualities of them . If you do n't want it too strong , then add them when you 're cooking . ( and you might not want to slice them as thin ) . The green portion gives a more mild onion taste but also some of the grassy quality that you might get from chives . I treat them like a fresh herb , chop them up , and add in them in the last minute of cooking or I do n't cook them at all . As for substitution ... I 'd only plan to do it if you were cooking for someone who did n't like onions , as they 're milder and come in smaller portions than bulb onions , so it 's easier to control amounts without any waste . ... and I 'd do it if I had them on hand but did n't have bulb onions around . If you 're just looking for a good way to feature the green onions -- grill them . Trim the ends off , clean off any dirt , give them a coat of oil , then toss them on a hot pan or grill . They make a great side dish . Other good uses are to add them into scrambled eggs , green onion pancakes , or press them into naan before cooking it . ... For the white onions , the opposite is true -- they 're generally stronger than red onions . Most people do n't serve it as a raw garnish unless it 's very thinly sliced and used in small amounts . It 's still used raw , but it tends to be blended into other things such as pico de gallo , or guacamole , where the pungency of the onion helps to balance out the sweetness of the tomatoes or richness of the avocado . I 'm having difficulty thinking of a dish where the qualities of the white onion would stand out , though . My only idea is french onion soup , because it just comes out lacking if you make it with sweeter red or yellow onions ... but unless you made them side by side and compared them , I do n't know that you 'd see the difference . You might try cooking them slowly over medium heat until they caramelize ... it 'd let you feature the onions without them being overwhelming , and it brings out some of their more interesting qualities .
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
<URL> has a nice description of Devil 's Food Cake . Originally , Devil 's Food Cake had a medium dense texture . The colour had a reddish tint that was probably caused by baking soda reacting with cocoa powder . In fact , I have an old cookbook ( The Day by Day Cook Book , 1939 ) that contains a recipe for Red Devil 's Food Cake . This recipe calls for 2 oz . unsweetened chocolate and 1 tsp . of baking soda .
<URL> ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet . They are baked on a sheet pan , sometimes sliced into wedges , sometimes cut into rounds or other shapes . They are similar to , but sweeter than American style biscuits . Biscuits ( UK usage ) or cookies ( US usage ) are very small , flat cake-like confections , usually rich in butter and sugar . They are also baked on sheet pans , in individual portions typically only a couple of inches across ( although sizes vary widely ) . They come in a myriad varieties and flavors . Typical flavorings are vanilla , chocolate , nuts , citrus . Some of the simpler varieties allow the butter flavor to come through . Biscuit ( US usage ) or tea biscuit ( UK usage , one variant ) are a type of quick bread charactarized by flat , flaky layers . They are typically cut in rounds a couple of inches across , and tend to be about an inch tall . They are usually only very lightly sweetened if sweetened at all . Tea biscuit ( UK usage , another variant ) or teacake are biscuits or cookies traditionally served with tea . They tend to be fairly neutral in flavor . Muffins ( UK usage ) or English muffins ( US usage ) are small yeast-raised breads which are griddled in rings , rather than baked in an oven . They tend to be a couple of inches across , and about half an inch tall . They are often split and served toasted . Muffins ( US usage ) or American Muffins ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet , baked in single serving portions in muffin tins ( the same pans used for cupcakes ) .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
The <URL> page has an entry on this very topic . Basically , the color of the egg does not affect the egg 's flavor , nutritional value , etc. . It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens , brown eggs from brown hens . It 's also worth noting , as the ENC points out : Generally , brown hens are larger and require more feed and therefore their eggs may be slightly higher priced .
Chapathi or Roti is made from wheat flour usually in all of the Indian homes . Chapathi is usually bigger in size than Phulka . both sides are cooked on pan . Some people apply oil/ghee after completely cooking it but when it is not on the pan but while eating . Roti / chapati is usually not made to swell up , especially if it is rolled comparatively thick . Bubbles do appear in the roti / chapati when steam forms in some places . The word ' Roti ' is used commonly in north , central and east India , whereas ' Chapati ' is used more in west ( Mumbai ) , and south India . Only in south India Chapati is fried in a bit of oil ! Elsewhere , only a Paratha is fried with oil or ghee Paratha is something which can be stuffed paratha or non stuffed paratha . Stuffed parartha is like Aloo Paratha , Methi Paratha and it is cooked on a pan too but oil/ghee/butter is applied while cooking on a pan . Non stuffed paratha is you make a puree of spinach or fenugreek with different spices and add it while preparing the dough itself . And then it is cooked on pan . Paratha ( plain , folded or stuffed ) is made from an unleavened dough of wholewheat flour , and shallow fried with a little oil / ghee / butter . Parathas generally stay soft and moist even when cold . Yes , certainly sometimes meaning differs with context to people and region , though there may not be much difference in preparing it.Triangle Shape has nothing to do with the Taste or Texture , it deals more with Presentation . Oil indeed influences the flavor &amp; texture of dough . The " moistness " of the Parathas - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats . Adding in extra fat , such as oil , butter , shortening , makes the Parathas seem extra moist and soft .
I just happened across this older question and found the answers provided , including the information in the link to wikipedia to be incorrect . All Prime Ribs are Standing Rib Roasts , not all Standing Rib Roasts are Prime Rib . A " Prime Rib " is a standing rib roast , from a beef that has achieved a USDA Grade of " Prime " . Bone-In or Bone-out are separate distinctions the can be applied to any standing rib roast , regardless of grade . U.S. Prime -- This is the highest grade of beef with the most fat marbling . This meat is very tender and only accounts for about 2.9 % of all graded beef . U.S. Prime is usually reserved for high end dining establishments . Because this beef has such a high level of fat marbling , it is excellent for dry heat cooking methods . <URL> Also , technically a Prime Rib is not a ' steak ' but rather a ' slice of roast ' . If one takes a slice from a raw rib primal and grills or broils it as a steak it is a " Rib Eye " , and can also be either " bone-in " or " bone-out " . ( the use of the word ' primal ' refers to a primary cut of beef , the first cuts a butcher will use to section a beef beyond quartering , it is utterly unrelated to the word " prime " in " Prime Rib " )
Pan frying means letting the food sit in the pan and occasionally stirring or flipping . It tends to be done with larger pieces of food , and at a medium to medium-high heat . Sautéing means shaking the pan back and forth - making the food " jump " , if you 're translating directly . It 's done at a high heat , for a short time , usually with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped ingredients . Shallow frying , according to some references , refers to the food being partially ( halfway ) submerged in hot oil and flipped once , as opposed to deep-frying where the food is fully-submerged the whole time .
They 're rather different . Gyros are Greek in origin . They are simply meat , tomatoes , onion , and tzatziki sauce on pita . In Greece the meat is typically pork ( never had one ) . In America , specifically here in Chicago ( their local origin ) , the meat is a combination of beef &amp; lamb . Shwawarma is Middle Eastern in origin . The possible toppings are much more diverse , and can include : tahini , tabouli , fattoush , cucumber , and hummus . Tzatziki is n't typically used , at least not in America . The meat is also never pork , it can be lamb , beef or chicken . They owe their similarities to their common Turkish ancestor the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
It is completely a matter of aesthetics , other than the tendency of a metal plate to bring its contents to room temperature more quickly due to its higher thermal conductivity compared to ceramic .
Apple cider has two meanings , but they both start with raw , pressed juice from crushed apples . Soft apple cider ( normally just called cider ) is simply the pressed juice , bottled . It is cloudy from suspended apple particles , and turns brown from the oxidation , much as apples themselves do when cut and exposed to air . Hard apple cider is an alcoholic beverage made by allowing soft apple cider to ferment . Apple juice is essentially the squeezed juice from the apples that has been highly filtered to remove the suspended particulates . It is usually pasteurized to have a longer shelf life . UK Usage : Per ElendilTheTall , in the UK , the alcoholic beverage is called cider , and the other products are called simple apple juice . See also : <URL>
Old fashioned oats are rolled whole-grain oat kernels . In quick oats , on the other hand , the oat kernel is first cut into smaller pieces before being rolled . This makes it much easier for quick oats to absorb water than an old fashioned oat . You can visibly see the size difference . For baking quick oats can be used in place of old fashioned oats . However , if a recipe calls for quick oats , you may not get expected results using old fashioned oats . Typically , a recipe that calls explicitly for quick oats generally has too short a cooking time for regular oats to fully cook ( e.g. pancakes ) . Another thing altogether is instant oats . Do not substitute these in any recipe . Instant oats are parboiled , dried , and often has sugar and salt added . Nutritionally , quick and old-fashioned oats are identical .
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
Generally speaking , butter spreads have a water component to them . That 's what the emulsifier is for , as it keeps the fat and water from separating . The problem is that you ca n't fry/cook with it . If you place it in a pan it will separate , and sizzle in a very unpleasant manner . If I remember correctly , it actaully smells quite awful in the process . As for baking , I think it 'll be fine anywhere there needs to be fat as fat . Wherever you need fat as something to hold the structure , you had probably best not use it . Caveat emptor , as I do n't bake very much at all . Let it be aid , however , that margarine as opposed to butter spread , can be used anywhere that butter is used . It is n't as tasty , and has trans-fats . On the other hand , it has less cholesterol .
The pyramid teabag allows for more effective and faster extraction . This is because the tea bag retains its 3 dimensional shape , so there is plenty of space for the tea leaves , and more of their surface area is exposed for extraction . A conventional teabag actually becomes smaller , and there is less space and the tea leaves are pressed onto each other , creating a compressed little ball of tea . I think whoever invented the pyramid teabag had that in mind . I am not suggesting that the world was desperate for it though ;)
end question
start question
Where can I find dried Great Northern Beans ?
They are a small , white , mildly flavored bean . You can use cannellini or navy beans instead .
In fact , although the risk is low , the <URL> does recommend soaking in the refrigerator , or using the quick soak method as opposed to an overnight room temperature soak : To be on the safe side , it would be advisable to use the quick soak method : Bring water and beans to a boil , cover and boil for 2 minutes . Remove from heat and let stand 1 hour . Drain and further cook . Similarly , the <URL> recommends ( emphasis added ) : A 12-hour soak in cold water before cooking helps hydrate the beans and considerably shortens cooking time . Ideally , beans should be put to soak the night before they are to be prepared and be kept in a cool place , or in the refrigerator , to avoid any fermentation taking place . Before soaking , wash them several times in cold water and remove any damaged or split beans . Discard any particles floating in the soaking water , such as small insects from the harvest , specks of dirt or other contaminants .
You can either bake them in something , and typically be fine ( there are lots of cookie recipies out there that use them ; search on the internet for ' biscotti ai pinoli ' ) , or you can toast them ahead of time , and then encorporate them . ( often , you toast them , then mix in , and bake ) . But a word of caution on toasting them -- they burn very easily . I 've typically done it in a dry skillet , where I can keep an eye on them , and quickly get them off and to a try to cool . I seem to recall an interview with Alton Brown where he mentioned that toasting pine nuts was the number one ruined dish on Iron Chef America , because of chefs leaving them alone for too long .
By your description I would say it 's taro or 芋头 ( yu tao ) in chinese <URL> It can be bought in most chinese supermarkets For more info <URL>
There 's no point drinking wine and not enjoying it . The point of wine with food is that , if you enjoy the wine and enjoy the food , you 'll enjoy both together even more . But if you do n't enjoy the wine , you 'll enjoy the food less if you force yourself to drink wine with it . Is there anything you do like about wine ? If not , I suggest you ignore it for the time being . If you 're curious , you 'll come back to it in your own time , whenever you 're ready . If you 're not , it does n't matter : there 's nothing wrong with not liking wine . If there is something you like about wine , for example , the aroma or some component of the taste , I suggest you keep trying it but do n't force yourself . Taste it every now and again and , if you still do n't like it , wait until you want to try it again . This is what I did with whisky . As a teenager / young adult , I really liked the smell of whisky but did n't like the taste -- in hindsight , it was probably the alcohol content that was the problem . Every now and again I 'd have a taste from my father 's glass or from somebody I was drinking with at a bar . For a long time , I did n't like it but I still liked the aroma so I kept trying a couple of times a year . Eventually , I started drinking it . A few things to bear in mind about wine . Avoid cheap wine and do n't waste your money on expensive wine that you wo n't appreciate . Low price is n't a guarantee of low quality and high price is n't a guarantee of high quality but it 's worth spending , say , twice the price of the cheapest bottle if you 're at the supermarket . That 's likely to lift you into wines that you 're disliking because you dislike wine , rather than because they 're bad . Red wine , poured straight from the bottle often tastes rather harsh . Open the bottle half an hour or so before you want to drink it and let it sit in the glass for a couple of minutes before you drink . Wines ( especially red ) with just one or two grape varieties named on the bottle usually have simpler , less challenging tastes . Sweeter white wines will probably be more appealing to you than drier ones . Try something like a sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay , rather than , say , a pinot gris/pinot grigio . Riesling can be anywhere from super-sweet to mouth-puckeringly dry depending on what the winemaker did . Supermarkets in the UK sell quarter-bottles of decent-but-not-amazing wine . That 's a good way to try lots of different styles without having to spend a lot of money or feeling that you 're wasting a whole bottle if you do n't like it . This suggestion is heresy but ... consider chilling red wine . Chilling tends to make harsher flavours less noticeable . If you find you like it chilled , try chilling it less . Ask a wine merchant . Specialist wine merchants love to talk about wine . Do n't be embarrassed to walk into one of their stores and say , " Hi . I like the idea of wine but I 've never found a wine I like drinking . " Their eyes will light up because this is a challenge to them to use their skills to make a customer really happy . If you buy a couple of bottles on their recommendations , you 'll be their favourite customer of the day , I guarantee . Doubly so if you go back a week later after liking what you bought . Go for it !
I finally found what I 'm looking for , from the <URL> - some actual data on the subject ! They say that rinsing canned beans can reduce the amount of sodium by half , and also reduces the amount of complex sugars which humans ca n't digest ( but the bacteria in our intestines can , with uncomfortable results ! ) It appears that draining the fluid is likely to improve the flavor and texture of the resulting food by concentrating the flavor of the beans -- unless you 're following a soup recipe that specifically suggests retaining the liquid to thicken the soup . I still have n't found any information about what healthy nutrients might be lost by rinsing the beans , but the general consensus seems to be that it rinsing will do more good than harm in almost all cases .
I have the <URL> and it works well for sweet potato fries . The product spec for them lists " Yams " which are sometimes what sweet potatoes are called in the U.S. ( technically , yes , yams are different but real yams are not often available in the U.S. ) . The <URL> specifically lists sweet potatoes : Makes French fries , sweet potato fries , zucchini sticks and other favorites
The issue here is how long do you steep the tea , at what temperature , and under what conditions do you store the used tea bags ? The reason " sun tea " has been discouraged has been because of the likelihood that the tea leaves that are in the bags are contaminated with bacteria such that a long soak in luke-warm water such as that of the " sun tea " causes them to multiply to the extent that they become a serious health risk . Tea leaves are not typically pasteurized during their processing , and may carry viable bacteria and / or bacterial spores . If you were to soak the tea bad in warm water not hot enough to get a good bacterial kill initially , there may be enough viable bacteria in the tea leaves to grow during that 5 hour interval such that the next cup may be seriously dangerous ( some may divide every 15 minutes , for example ) . However , if you were to adequately kill the bacteria and spores off by a nice hot soak ( for this example , you would need to use a pressure cooker since some bacterial spores are not even killed by boiling water at atmospheric pressure ) , refrigerate the tea bag afterwards , and then reuse it 5 hours later it would likely be perfectly fine . I think the final answer to your question comes down to your own personal risk tolerance and the conditions above . If you brew in luke-warm water or for a very brief time and then leave the bags out at room temperature you are just asking for trouble and eventually you may hit the loaded chamber in your own personal Russian roulette game . For empiric answers , take your particular brewing temperature and time and compare it to the USDA tables for pasteurization . Then , look up the growth curves for the major pathogens at your storage temperature and figure out how many would likely be present after 5 hours ( 20 generations at 15 minutes per generation or 2 ^ 20 times more bacteria than viable after the brewing event at the end of the storage interval ) .
It 's just how long you dry them . Thin apple slices work best for crunchy chips and then just dry them till they 're crunchy - sometimes as much as 18-20 hours . Soft , chewy dehydrated apples just go for a shorter time .
There is no exact conversion because there are so many different varieties of chickpeas or any bean types for that matter Their water absorption rate and amount is effected by many things including how they have been stored , have they been heat treated on import , and what time of year they where grown ! My rough rule of thumb for beans in general is 2.5 ± .5 times the volume and 2 ± .5 the weight after an overnight soak With our local chickpeas it 's 2.2 times the weight after 10 hours at 20 ° C ( on the bench ) 200g should be around 440g of soaked chickpeas . 1 cup of chickpeas is around 240g , so just shy of two cups of soaked chickpeas should do it
First off , how do you store your yeast ? Storing yeast in the fridge helps it to last longer ; I 've had some yeast in my fridge for a year that is still going strong . As your yeast begins to become ineffective , I would personally get new yeast . Once yeast looses its power , you 're simply not going to get the same effect out of it .
You need to use Kali Jeera rice available in most Patel stores or big indian stores . We were also looking for this and avoiding Kali Jeera thinking it is some black rice whereas it is not . This is rice used in Nor Malabar chicken biriyanis . And no need to mention that ghee rice or biriyani prepared with Kali Jeera rice tastes way better than normal Basmati rice .
I think on some level you 'll just get what you get with something hard like an almond . A really really sharp knife with a thin blade can help , but you can only do so much . My hand-cut ones are always a bit on the raggedy side . When using a food processor , try smaller batches to leave bigger or more consistent pieces . You do n't have to pulse as long to get everything broken up , so you get less that 's ground to nothing . Do a small batch for a short chop , dump 'em out , do another . As to how to do slivered or sliced almonds , I always figured that they started with blanched almonds ( which are less crisp in my experience ) or maybe even raw ones and then roasted them after cutting to crisp them up . You might experiment with blanched or unroasted almonds and see if you get a better result with a knife .
If you live in Poland , you should easily find the " normal " white ones in your supermarket . They should be good for baked beans , although the British version uses white beans that are a bit smaller . For more American style beans , you could also use the pinkish-brown or spotted type . There are so many types of beans , that I ca n't give a specific " name " . Stick with the smaller ones , as they have less starchy parts and usually keep their shape better .
Yes , you can store an opened pack of dried yeast without a problem . Seal the pack as well as you can ( plastic clips for just that purpose are very common , or you can just use an office ' bulldog ' clip ) , and put it in the fridge .
You do n't need a brand for brewed chocolate . You just take cocoa powder ( which is ground cocoa beans minus most of their fat ) and put it into boiling water . You do n't even need to strain . But I prefer to make mine with milk ( btw , I sometimes brew coffee in milk too ) . Solid candy from coffee is something else . What you call " coffee butter " is , in fact , coffee oil at room temperature . I ca n't find information about the breakdown of the coffee beans , but I am not sure if they have the starch content of cocoa beans ( which helps hold a chocolate bar together ) . Add to this the potential for a heart attack inducing amount of caffeine per bar of caffeeolate and you see why this is n't commonplace . I guess that the industry today would find ways around these problems . You can hydrogenize the oil ( although I do n't think it would attain the smooth texture of tempered chocolate , chocolate butter has some very special crystallization properties which allow a chocolate bar to have a silky but hard texture . It will be just grainy ) and you can decaffeinate the whole thing , and then mix it with some starch to thicken it , and as much sugar as there is in milk chocolate to counter the higher bitterness of coffee . But this will be as distant from real rich-flavoured coffee as 39 cent discounter chocolate bars are from real chocolate . There wo n't be an equivalent of premium dark chocolate ( which is the one that tastes of cocoa beans instead of sugar ) . If you love coffee so much that you want to try a coffeeolate bar , you are better off making coffee flavoured chocolate . If you want the least taste mix , start with a white chocolate bar . The easiest way would be to melt it and mix in a very small amount of cream with lots of instant coffee solved into it , but the taste will be bound by the instant coffee quality . The other way would be to brew the coffee powder in cream , very concentrated ( more than an espresso ) and add it to the melted chocolate . You 'll have to work at chocolate candy making temperatures ( 30 ° C to 32 ° C ) , if you overheat , you 'll have to retemper the chocolate .
Depending on how far overcooked it is , then you might be able to resuscitate it by cutting it into smaller pieces and cooking it low and slow in some liquid . For example , you could use it as the meat in a stew , or slice it thinly and then braise it with some vegetable to make a pot-roast . This also gives you an opportunity to introduce additional flavor , as it sounds as if that may have been lacking as well .
Just omit the mustard . In just about every recipe I have seen for beans , it is proportionally a very small component . And while we tend to think of mustard as being bold in flavor , it 's really the vinegar that makes it seem that way . You should also stray from any recipes that call for store bought barbecue sauces , as many will contain mustard . Finally , one reason mustard appears as an ingredient in dishes like this is it is an emulsifier . You may wish to find a substitute emulsifier , making sure of course that your friend can handle it as an ingredient , to keep too much of the pork fat from separating in your mixture .
Just keep it dry . I buy 100 sheets packs and store them in a zip-loc type bag in the cupboard for over a year
According to <URL> , which is one of the few references I could find : They are essentially fully cooked beans that have then been dehydrated for long term storage . Therefore , they will " cook " again quickly as they are already cooked , and are essentially just being rehydrated . If you listen to the video ( it is mostly narration , and a few still pictures , and are very , very , very patient in listening ) , the narrator will describe how she creates them which comes down to : Pre-soak the beans Pressure cook them Dehydrate them Note that the first two steps are probably not that critical -- you could cook the beans by whichever method you prefer .
end question
start question
Chicken stock in slow cooker - danger zone ?
It sounds like something is wrong with your slow cooker . On low , it should hit somewhere in the 190s , on high in the low 200s . On high , I 'd expect it to get there fairly quickly -- within two hours . Both should get you to 140 within an hour . That said , the actual safety temperature ( with a good thermometer ) is 130 or 131F . 135 or 140F leave some safety margin for not completely accurate thermometers , maybe missing the coldest part of the food by a little bit , etc. . And the standard is you have 2 hours to get there ( used to be 4 ) . So , unfortunately , " it seemed like 2 -- 3 hours " makes it really hard to answer if you exceeded that . I 'm not qualified to tell you exactly how much risk ( if any ) you 'd be taking if it took 3h . But I can make some suggestions for keeping the time to 140F down : Start with warmer water . There is a trade-off ; hot water is supposed to make a more cloudy stock . If you simmered the water on the stove first ( or in a tea kettle , etc. ) , then your time to 140 will be very short . Even starting with room temperature water instead of cold water is ten or twenty degrees closer . You could also , as Joe suggests , start with less water and add hot water later on to bring it up to the desired quantity ( but do n't underfill the slow cooker ) . Make sure your ingredients are defrosted ( in the fridge ) . Melting something takes extra energy ; this is known as the <URL> . For ice , it 's a lot of energy -- going from ≈ 32 ° F ice to ≈ 32 ° F water is about as much energy as it 'll take to get it from there to 175 ° F . If nothing else works , bring it to a simmer in a stock pot then transfer it over . Unfortunately you 'll have to wash a second pot . Or , finally , you can make very good chicken stock in a pressure cooker , in under an hour total cook time . But of course you need to keep an eye on that .
The absolute time a stock will take depends on the quantity of stock you are making and also on the ratio of solids to liquid with which you started ( along with the strength of your burner , the starting temperature of the water , the geometry of your pot , ... ) . Intentional variation is also possible depending on your intended use . The best advice I 've heard comes from Judy Rodgers in the Zuni Cafe Cookbook : taste the stock often as it cooks , more and more freqently as it starts to taste good . When it does n't taste better than the last time you checked , it 's done .
If you need the eggs raw , you could submerge them in boiling water for 5 sec . That would kill any bacteria on the shell and the egg would still be raw inside . Put the eggs in cold water right away to prevent the egg from heating up by the residual heat in the shell . I have tried this many times and the eggs do not cook . If you are serving the eggs to very young children , pregnant women or someone who are sick , you should buy pasteurized eggs instead . But normally it 's safer to eat eggs from chickens you raise , than the ones from a factory , because they are more healthy and their immune system is well developed enough to kill the salmonella itself .
I 'm looking for the online reference , but I remember reading in Cook 's Illustrated that they were able to substitute a bit of gelatin to mimic the mouth-feel of homemade stock . I did find a <URL> recipe that used gelatin . Based on how you described your recipe , I would say that the long cooking of chicken bones is indeed what 's missing . You might get a better result if you roast your chicken breasts and vegetables before cooking them in the broth .
I come from a culture where rice is our staple and I have a rice cooker . Here are some of the advantages from my perspective : Rice is perfect everytime -- not stuck to the bottom , not watery , not mushy and stuck together , etc. . If you make rice in a pot , and the heat is too high , it will boil and spill over creating a mess . You can switch the rice cooker on and go do other things , whereas it is dangerous to walk away from a stove . The rice cooker can be used for other things such as cooking lentils and steaming vegetables . Rice cookers are cheap .
Fine mesh sieve is the usual way , but the way you describe it , yours is not fine enough . Look in professional stores for a " chinois " , this is the kind of sieve you need . But yes , it will take a long time . In classic restaurants , the stock will be cleared before going through the chinois . This is done by floating a rack of eggwhite which bounds the stray proteins . It is at least as slow as the cheesecloth , but more nerve wracking , because you have to do it manually , and it is rather finicky and can easily go wrong . I remember reading about a modern trick of clearing which used gelatine and freezing the stock without a mesh or a rack , but do n't know any more what it was . Maybe somebody else has read it and can supply the details . Edit I returned home and looked the freezing method up ; it is listed in the book " Cooking for geeks " . It contains the sentence As the water in the stock freezes , it will push the impurities into the gelatin The book also has pictures . They show that you do n't end up with fine protein sediment clogging your sieve and finest slit in the stock . The first picture shows the drip-freeze filtered stock compared to the same stock filtered at 100 microns , the difference is large . The second picture shows that after the procedure , what stays in the sieve are cohesive pieces of gelatine with the particles trapped inside , not a film of the scum . So it seems that there is a reason for freezing first . For home use , I just do n't bother clearing my stock , I just use a tea sieve to remove the worst of the protein . When simmered without allowing it to boil , this produces reasonably good stock without all the fuss .
I 've never been one to keep track of cooking times with meats , since it will vary wildly with meat thickness , burner strength and type , phase of the moon , etc. . Edit : I forgot to answer " how to go about searing " . I sear chicken like I sear beef : hard and fast . The point is to get that <URL> going to add some deliciousness and texture ( not to " seal in flavor " , which is hogwash ) . Pat the chicken dry with paper towels . Put just enough oil in a heavy-bottomed pan to cover the bottom . Put the pan over medium-high heat and get it good and hot - the oil may just start showing wisps of smoke . Lay the chicken in the pan carefully , being sure to start at the edge closest to you and lay it down away from you . This will prevent you from getting splashed with hot oil . Let it cook for 2-4 minutes until you get a nice sear on it . Flip , ( the chicken , not you ) again being careful to flip away from you . Now if the breast is thin enough ( <URL> ) , you can just let it finish in the pan . Often , though , after flipping I 'll pop the whole pan into a 400F oven and finish it in there . Again , times will vary , but I would start checking it after 5 minutes . The most accurate way to determine doneness of any meat is with an instant-read thermometer . I love my <URL> , but it 's a bit pricey . You can find inexpensive dial or digital ones at your local grocery . The <URL> is 165F . Normally , I poke my chicken with a finger to determine doneness , then double-check it by cutting it open . Fully-cooked chicken is white all the way through , and the juices run clear when you cut into it . Under-cooked chicken is pink , and the juices run pink as well . I get fresh chicken from a local farm , so I cook it until it is barely done to be sure it stays moist and delicious . For supermarket chicken I would err on the side of completely done , since you have no idea where the meat came from . For reference , fully cooked chicken : Under cooked chicken : Extremely under cooked chicken :
It will be safe and edible . It might not be quite as good . Part of the appeal of slow cookers is just the convenience of leaving them unattended . The other appeal is low-slow cooking that blends flavors and melts connective tissue without burning anything . Meat Cooking things faster and hotter will not make the meat as tender as it would be - but it will still be cooked . If it is in small pieces the difference will not be as noticeable . Obviously ground meat would be the same regardless of cooking time . Beans ( if you believe in beans in chili ) 4 hours will be enough time to soften soaked beans . I 'd say this is the biggest risk . Undercooked beans are n't fun to eat . Soaked beans , canned beans , or no beans make this a non-issue . Flavor melding Chili benefits from time . Beans soak up flavors . Chili and onion balance out through the sauce . I 'll often make my chili a day in advance of serving it because it is so much better the next day . You 're going to get less time so some of this will be lost .
Use a meat thermometer . If you overcook the chicken , it will dry out . The standard temperature for chicken breast is 160 degrees Fahrenheit .
Sorry , USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage ( 40 ° F ) . Beyond that and you 're tempting fate a bit . You 're gon na have to eat some humble pie for your wife on this one ( just do n't ask here for the recipe ) . <URL>
The veggies are n't very palatable after such a long simmering ( unless you like celery paste , I guess ) , but if you 've thrown a whole chicken in the resulting meat is wonderfully tender and flavorful .
Using stock ( or broth ) has two advantages over plain water : It is more flavorful , giving your pie a better , deeper background richness It contains gelatin , which may improve the mouth feel of your pie , giving it a thicker , silkier , richer texture Depending on your particular pie recipe 's filling , this may not make a huge amount of difference , or it could be the difference between a so-so and a great pie .
It 's probably OK but there are a lot of variables here so from where I sit , it 's difficult to be certain . Cooking will kill most bacteria . If the soup went from the pot , hot , to the container and capped immediately , the risk of airborne bacteria getting in is reduced . It takes more than a couple bacteria to get you sick but when conditions are right , bacteria multiply exponentially in a short period of time . If the container was at 72F , that 's better than if it was at 90F ... as if it was outside in the sun . You can give it a sniff to check if it smells OK . Reheating to a boil will kill most bacteria , but depending on the specific bacteria , not all . What 's more , certain bacteria leave behind toxins that are not easily destroyed . If you have a pressure cooker , that 's the best way to kill whatever bacteria might be in there . You would need to keep it in the cooker for a period of time ... 30 minutes perhaps . Seems like a lot of trouble to go to . Dry bouillon cubes should not have any bacteria ... assuming a clean manufacturing plant . Same goes if you used dehydrated chicken . It 's more likely bacteria got in if fresh uncooked chicken was used . Unwashed hands , contaminated utensils , used hand towels , unclean work area ... all that stuff comes into play . You probably already know about cross contamination . But here 's the thing ? Why risk it ? Salmonella will not likely kill you but your stomach will be churning and you 'll be spending some time in the bathroom . There are other bad actors out there and they are worse than Mr. Sal Minella ... Staphlococcus , E. Coli , Botulinum . My answer is , to be safe , toss it .
I 'm not sure if its dangerous , but if you are worried about the can you can get various tools , designed to cook a chicken like this .
I 've cooked white rice , brown rice , wild rice , whole Oat Groats ( 2 brown rice cycles + a little extra water on cycle two ) , rye groats , Khorasan wheat ( kamut ) , barley , Spelt , and numerous other seeds in my fuzzy logic rice cooker , but never Quinoa . It seems to me the white Quinoa seed benefits from a short cook time , and a long post-cooking expansion time . A rice cooker does n't do that very well . The red Quinoa I can also get is tougher , and might like being cooked like brown rice . That said , I have n't tried it . It 's certainly possible that your rice cooker could make passable Quinoa . I suggest you give it a try on a small batch . If you like the result , post that here , and I 'll try it too .
Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth : Broths are the result of cooking meat , not just bones . They 're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own . The juices poured off from a roasted turkey ( after being degreased ) would be considered broth . Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth . Stocks are made from just the bones . They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes ( sauces , soups , stews , rice , etc. ) Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking . Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks , since it 's really hard to get all the meat off the bones . Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time ( 4-6 hours for chicken &amp; 8-12 for veal/beef ) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones . Broths are n't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods ( even chicken surrounded by the liquid ) will result in tough , flavorless meat . Consomme : a fortified and clarified stock . The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a " raft " which is a combination of lean ground meat ( appropriate to the type of stock being used ) with brunoise ( 1/16 inch ) mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) , and egg whites . The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats , the proteins coagulate forming a " raft " on top of the stock . A small hole is poked in the center ( if one has n't already formed ) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor . Bouillon : French word for broth . Court Bouillon : sometimes called a " short broth " . A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water , acid ( lemon juice , vinegar , wine ) , parsley stems , bay leaves , peppercorns , and some salt . When to use Stock vs. Broth : Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred . Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity is n't important , and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch .
You can combine it with practically everything , so the question is somewhat broad . So my answer is equally broad : rice pairs well with fresh tastes and acidity , or with moderately sweet components . Or you can just underline its own slightly nutty notes . Below is a list of specific examples , but it is impossible to make it exhaustive . For fresh tastes , use herbs . Summer savoury and spearmint are the classics , I never make stuffed peppers without them . But other light tasting herbs are also a good choice - lemon balm , oregano . Rosmarin is sometimes good , but somewhat overpowering , it is better for a dish where the rice is cooked together with veggies ( eggplant , zucchini ) . Beside herbs , you can try more exotic seasonings . Lemon zests are good , finelly chopped grape leaves and shoots are great . Coriander powder should give you a similar taste profile to cilantro , but it is easier to keep at hand for when a quick dinner without much planning is needed . The sweet option is also interesting ; if you do n't overdo it , it is OK to serve it as a side dish for a savoury meal . The easiest way to achieve it is to cook the rice together chopped dry fruit . Sulfured raisins are popular , the dish will be somewhat si milar to pilaf . But others work too , I especially like dried apricots because they are slightly tart . Other methods for sweetening do n't really fall into the " dry seasoing " category , but are worth mentioning . You can add fruit juice to the cooking water ( apple or other slightly sour juices are best ; this will affect the starch in the rice , causing it to cook firmer than usual ) or you can add a small amount of sweetener to the cooked rice ( prefer aromatic sweeteners lik honey or C grade maple syrup ) . Or if you prefer it spicier , mix it with a sweet chutney , like mango . If you want a subtler taste , combine the rice with nuts ( cook them together ) . Always use nuts with the brown skin removed . I have found unroasted , finely chopped nuts to work better this way . Hazelnuts and almonds are a very good choice . Para nuts also pair well with rice , but are seldom availablr blanched + chopped . This works especially well if you use the parfrying method for the rice , frying in the oil of the nut used . However , I do n't know if you can parfry rice in a rice cooker , I always make mine on the stove .
It sounds like something is wrong with your slow cooker . On low , it should hit somewhere in the 190s , on high in the low 200s . On high , I 'd expect it to get there fairly quickly -- within two hours . Both should get you to 140 within an hour . That said , the actual safety temperature ( with a good thermometer ) is 130 or 131F . 135 or 140F leave some safety margin for not completely accurate thermometers , maybe missing the coldest part of the food by a little bit , etc. . And the standard is you have 2 hours to get there ( used to be 4 ) . So , unfortunately , " it seemed like 2 -- 3 hours " makes it really hard to answer if you exceeded that . I 'm not qualified to tell you exactly how much risk ( if any ) you 'd be taking if it took 3h . But I can make some suggestions for keeping the time to 140F down : Start with warmer water . There is a trade-off ; hot water is supposed to make a more cloudy stock . If you simmered the water on the stove first ( or in a tea kettle , etc. ) , then your time to 140 will be very short . Even starting with room temperature water instead of cold water is ten or twenty degrees closer . You could also , as Joe suggests , start with less water and add hot water later on to bring it up to the desired quantity ( but do n't underfill the slow cooker ) . Make sure your ingredients are defrosted ( in the fridge ) . Melting something takes extra energy ; this is known as the <URL> . For ice , it 's a lot of energy -- going from ≈ 32 ° F ice to ≈ 32 ° F water is about as much energy as it 'll take to get it from there to 175 ° F . If nothing else works , bring it to a simmer in a stock pot then transfer it over . Unfortunately you 'll have to wash a second pot . Or , finally , you can make very good chicken stock in a pressure cooker , in under an hour total cook time . But of course you need to keep an eye on that .
If the goal is to melt collagen , could n't that be done just as easily at a higher temp ? No , it wo n't be . The reaction which has to happen to the collagen does n't go quicker when the temperature is higher . You have to get it to 68 Celsius and wait for it to happen . If it is at more than 68 Celsius , it wo n't happen quicker , or better , or anything . You have no advantages . At the same time , if you have a higher temperature , you have more trouble . First , you are wasting a lot of energy to keep the stew hotter over many hours . Second , its liquid can boil off , getting the wrong consistency . Third , if the bottom of the pot becomes too hot , it will burn on . Fourth , anything non-meat in there can suffer from the heat - vegetables can overcook , starch can burn onto the bottom , anything planty ( vegetables , herbs , spices ) can get its taste destroyed ) . All in all , if you can cook something on a high or a low temperature , choose the low one , it is generally better for everything . Only choose high for foods which have a narrow temperature range which is high .
Yes there are benefits ! This is one of my most used pieces of kitchen equipments . Here is a list of benefits for a quality rice cooker : Never burns rice No guess measurements for all kinds of rice Scheduled cooking Keep warm settings Uniform cooking When I cook rice on my stove , even at the lowest of heats , I get a thin layer of rice that has overcooked stuck to the bottom of the pot . For the record I have the <URL> . Best thing ever .
end question
start question
Can I make hard / crunchy food without sugar or fat ?
Blah ... this is getting to be a bit long for a comment , so I might as well reformat &amp; expand more , even though it might not be an appropriate answer . ( and I should note that this is mostly from memory as I got an engineering degree ~ 20 years ago ) Are you asking about the physics of what ' crunchy ' is ? It 's effectively stiff , brittle things . When you 're dealing with strength of materials , you 're looking at how much energy something can absorb before it fails . Strain is a measure of how much something deforms as it 's being loaded . Items that can take a high load ( force applied ) without deforming are considered stiff . ( stiffness = force / deformation ) Brittle is a characterization of how it fails -- something that deforms plastically ( stretches and wo n't go back to the original shape once the load is removed ) can become weaker as more force is applied , but still keep resisting . Think of something like taffy . Brittle failures , however , are almost explosive -- it just breaks suddenly . Think of a concrete block being crushed -- you load it and it looks like nothing 's happening , but suddenly bits of it shoot off and you 're left with a pile of rubble . Why things are crunchy is another issue entirely -- because there 's lots of different structures that can result in " crunchy " . Crunchy baked goods are more like a wooden truss bridge . Wood can handle a lot of force without breaking , but once once member goes , the truss loses strength and is ripped apart , and it suddenly fails . There 's often debris along the breakage because of how the item rips itself apart internally . ( although we typically call them ' crumbs ' not ' rubble ' when talking about this kind of food ) . For these foods , water will typically soften the structure making it so they ca n't support much load -- making them not stiff , and thus not crunchy . Moist things like apples , lettuce and carrots are often crunchy , but it 's a bit different . It 's more like bubble wrap . Cells are effectively a bunch of tiny water balloons bound tightly together . As we apply pressure , they pop . ( although they 're so tightly packed together that unlike a single water balloon , it does n't have space to deform ) . In this case , we do n't see crumbs as much as the moisture from the cells breaking . If the cells are n't full , then we consider it to be mushy ... maybe even chewy if we dry it far enough ... if the cells do n't stay bound together well , then it 's mealy -- it crumbles easily , rather than giving us that resistance before it fails explosively . So anyway ... if you want crunchy without sugar and fat ... have some celery . If you 're okay with a bit of sugar , then carrots . If a bit of fat , then crackers ( but not ritz or really buttery ones ) .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
You could use sugar substitutes but you should take care to use one that is heat stable . Sugar Substitute with Stevia as main ingredient can be used but you need to inquire to what ratios you would need to use your specific brand with . Acesulfame Potassium is heat stable but is 200 times sweeter than regular sugar . The general rule of thumb I was taught is 1 gram per quarter cup of sugar . Sucralose : Granulated sucralose can be used as an equal-volume substitute for sugar . ( Raw sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sugar , so you 'd use less , but the granulated form contains fillers to bring it up to the normal volume . ) There may be some considerations in making ice cream with this as when using this for baking the baking process is accelerated to a certain degree . Be careful with this one . Saccharin and Aspartame should be avoided because they are heat sensitive . Other more natural sugar substitutes include honey , fruit juice concentrates and refined fructose .
Dry biscuits ( American ' biscuits ' - not cookies ) , or anything other flour based quick bread that dried out - if you 're trying to replicate the bread crumbs . You may be able to get by with a modified muffin recipe as well . You 'll want to avoid fats and oils to reduce the moistness . Yeast bread develops a particular flavor and larger hole structure than quick bread though . The flavor of a quick bread breadcrumbs should be slightly different , but in many dishes the subtle difference wo n't be overwhelming unless the breading is a ' star ' of the dish . The hole structure really does n't matter luckily - as developing that is a large part of the time factor of real bread . Drying it out will be the harder part . The denser structure holds moisture better , so slice it thin and give it low , dry , long heat . Personally , anything that you 're going to make for the purpose of breadcrumbs that is n't just a substitute ( like cereal , crackers , etc in the other answer ) , sounds like it 'd be easier just to make a loaf of fast rise bread to me .
This is an art . Anyone who appreciates REAL tacos , can understand that this is not easy . God Bless anybody that can pull this off accurately ! I have it down to a science . I learned from my grandfather . His biggest secret was in the fork you use . We use cooking forks . 3 prong cooking forks ( most of the ones I see on google have two prongs ) . You can use regular forks too , but they arent made for cooking in high temp oil . First you must get the oil HOT . 350 atleast , preferably 400 degrees . Just before it starts smoking . You need really high oil heat . Once the oil is PLENTY hot , you hold a tortilla in one hand , and drop it in the oil halfway . It should be at 90 degrees , with your hand still holding the dry half of the tortilla . ( Note : keep your cooking fork ready for the next steps ) If your oil is hot enough , it will cook that half of the tortilla almost instantly . Let it cook until it hardens up , which should be less than a minute . Once the first half the bent tortilla is crisp , use the cooking fork to grab the tortilla half that is crisp and cooked . You will flip it here , putting the dry tortilla half ( that was in your hand ) into the oil , while the cooked half , sits above the oil with your fork . Now it should cook the other half of the taco shell . The art is using the fork well enough to create a gap at the base of the shell ( for meat or whatever you stuff with ) . And then flipping it and holding it with the fork while the other side crispens and finishes up . I would like to make a youtube video that shows this process , and it truly is an artform . Many people make great tacos but horrible tortilla shells . I grew up near Mexico , I was born 4 miles from Matamoros . I have seen my share of taco cooking , in the strangest of places . The best tacos Ive ever had use this method . And the best taco makers Ive ever seen wouldnt do this any other way ( by hand ) . It 's hard to do this without burning your hand ( s ) . Be careful . The dry tortilla absorbs the hot oil , even when your holding it over the grease in the first step . Youd be surprised how a corn tortilla will drink the oil right up to your hand . Give it practice . You will mess up a few tortillas . Dont worry about that , they make great quesadillas or nachos :)
It is perfectly normal for sugar to turn dark brown when making . If it turns even darker , it is because it has been burning too hot . <URL> , so you want to get there gradually . As for the color , many recipes call for to make it smoother and tender , but only incorporate it after the crystals are fully dissolved and you 're ready to take it off the burner . I 've seen a few youtube videos with just sugar and water for sugar cages ...
I just asked the exact same question here ! : <URL> I found a pretty good answer online . It actually would be easier and cheaper for you to throw it out , as you do n't have to buy as much organic flour in the future to feed your starter . Imagine buying 5 cups each day to feed your starter when you could just use 100 grams ! : During the " initial " development - and by this I assume we 're talking the first several days of your brand spanking new starter , what you 'll be throwing away is likely not even " starter " but rather flour soup wherein there 's a fairly good chance you 're also growing a few less-than-desirable cohabitants . This would explain why you 'd want to chuck it out rather than use it . You also cut back on your starter so you do n't end up with gallons of it since quite early on you do begin to make your feeds at a ratio of 1:1:1 or 1:2:2 . For illustrative purposes , let 's follow the 1:2:2 ratio and just assume we 're using cups ( easier to visualize ) although you really would be weighing , of course . So let 's say on day 1 morning feed , we begin with a half cup of starter . Half a cup sounds like nearly nothing , right ? To that we 'd then need to add twice that amount of each water and flour , so we add 1 cup water and 1 cup flour for a total of 2.5 cups . Still not that bad . Day 1 evening feed , we 're not reducing so we need to add to our 2.5 cups of starter 5 cups water and 5 cups flour for a total of 11 cups . Set it on the counter , hope it does n't overflow everywhere and go to bed . Day 2 morning feed , we 're still not tossing away so to our 11 cups we have to add 22 cups of water and 22 cups of flour . We now have 55 cups of starter or about 3.5 gallons . Remember , this is only the third feed and we started with just a measly half cup yesterday morning . At tonight 's feed , we 'll have 312 cups or 19.5 gallons of starter . Just enough to fill up four of those white Home Depot buckets although you 'll want at least eight of 'em so the starter can double in size . By morning of day three , you can fill your bathtub , if it holds 97 gallons ; it very well may not , and definitely wo n't hold the expanded starter . By afternoon , you 'll also be borrowing an additional four neighbour 's tubs for your 488 gallons . How soon before you need to move this out to a local swimming pool to continue ? Well , by the end of day five , you 'd be the proud owner of 305,175.8 gallons of starter . Or 4.8 million cups . Seriously . An Olympic size pool is about 600,000 gallons . By the morning of day six , you can fill two and a half of them , with leftovers . And it has n't even been a full week yet . And that 's why you cut your starter back down to a manageable amount each time . It 's a lot cheaper to toss a little bit out than to keep it and feed it . Source : <URL>
The " moistness " of the bread - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats as well as water - grain has some of these naturally , especially whole grain . Adding in extra fat , such as butter , shortening or cooking oil , makes the baked good seem extra moist and soft - here is a <URL> , and the role of various ingredients in dough . Fats are a tenderizer when added to a dough - it makes the baked good softer , which we associate with " moist . " Fats and oils also evaporate much more slowly than water , and prevents water from re-absorbing into the bread , keeping the bread from becoming brittle and hard and off-tasting ( stale ) for longer . Without extra fat , the bread relies on the oils and protein found in grain , and the water content of the bread . This water will eventually evaporate , leaving the bread brittle - and worse , it will slowly re-absorb some moisture from the air , and this can lead to a dry , mealy , chewy texture and unpleasant flavor - staleness , in other words . ( This is why croutons should be baked for best flavor rather than just left to go stale . ) The natural oils and proteins will likewise firm up and stiffen as the bread cools . For leavened flatbreads , <URL> is a common technique to extend shelf life ( and improve flavor ) - this method of leavening does a good job of locking water-moisture into the bread without requiring extra fat or other preservatives . <URL> of prefermenting naan . For unleavened bread , Mexican cuisine is where you should look for <URL> - in some regions , flour tortillas are eaten with every meal , but generally only prepared once a day . Air-tight storage is key . A zip-close plastic bag with a cloth to absorb excess moisture is ideal . Re-heat the bread in a microwave . It will soften the proteins and oils , without drying out the water content the way an oven or toaster will .
From the National Center for Home Food Preservation : <URL> <URL> Use a mixture of 3/4 ripe and 1/4 under-ripe high-pectin fruits . Under-ripe or just barely ripe fruit contains the most pectin . Cook the fruit with cores and peels to add extra pectin ( but do remove stems or pits ) . Put through a sieve before adding sugar and spices . Citrus peel contains lots of pectin , so consider adding some of it to your mixture . Fruits low in pectin : apricots , blueberries , cherries , peaches , pears , raspberries , and strawberries . That 's not saying you ca n't make jam/jelly/butter from these without added pectin . It just may be a little more difficult than , say , using apples . In fact , as an example , here 's a <URL> w/o pectin .
In my experience , the most likely impact of a gentle boil vs. a furious rolling boil is going to be on texture of starchy foods , such as potatoes or other root vegetables , rather than flavor . I 've found that a gentle simmer of potatoes will result in a mostly intact shape and consistent texture , whereas an aggressive boil without perfect timing can result in the outer layers of the potato breaking apart , sometimes before the center has time to cook fully . I 've seen similar issues with stuffed parcels of pasta like ravioli or boiled won tons . I 've also found that open pot egg poached eggs have much nicer results with a gentle simmer than an aggressive boil , perhaps for related reasons . Since part of how we experience taste is texture , you could say that the " taste " is affected .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
General comments on the shelf - , fridge - , and freezer-life of foods The shelf-life is the amount of time a food can be stored before it is considered unsuitable for use . It may be unsuitable due to quality degradation ( no longer tasty ) or food safety ( risk of food poisoning ) . [ <URL> ] As far as food safety goes , food stored frozen at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or below is remains safe forever ; only quality degrades over time . [ <URL> ] . Thus the freezer-storage times below are entirely about quality . If your freezer is set at a temperature higher than -18 ° C ( three-star setting ) , these times may not apply . Especially the safe storage time in one-star freezers ( -6 ° C ) is much reduced . The times all assume proper storage . Freezers 0 ° F or below , refrigerators 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . [ <URL> ] Cans should be stored in a cool , dry place , below 85 ° F ( 30 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The tables given here assume proper storage . Food which requires refrigeration is considered unsafe if left for over two hours at temperatures between 41 -- 135 ° F ( 5 -- 57 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The Tables Regardless of the table below , if a food shows signs of spoilage ( including mold , with some exceptions described below ) , its past its shelf-life . Note that the lack of spoilage does not imply safety . Uncooked Proteins Cooked proteins Dairy Sauces For home-made mayo , there do n't seem to be official shelf-life estimates . Seasoned Advice has a question on this , <URL> . Vegetables Freezer times are given for cooked or blanched , then frozen . Generally , this is required , otherwise enzymatic degradation will occur . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each vegetable . Refrigerator and shelf times are for storage raw . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . Fruits Many fruits must be at least partially cooked ( blanched ) before freezing in order to deactivate enzymes that would otherwise degrade quality while in storage . Some are best frozen packed in acid ( lemon juice or citric acid ) and/or syrup . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each fruit . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . * : bananas stored in the fridge will blacken . This is not a sign of spoilage , and they can be eaten safely . Cooked dishes Generally 3 -- 4 days in the fridge . This includes pizza , soups , stews , casseroles , pies , and quiche [ KC ] . Some salads get a fifth day [ CFG ] . Freezer time is generally under three months . Infused oils Putting any plant matter in oil ( such as garlic , chillies or herbs ) creates the danger for botulism , a rare but fatal disease . Thus infused oils are not shelf-stable . They can be kept in the refrigerator for 3-5 days , discard them earlier if you see cloudiness or gas bubbles . Or buy commercially produced infused oils , they have been treated with industrial methods to kill the botulinum spores . Shelf-stable until opened Pantry ( not refrigerated even after opening ) General tips for storing foods How do I freeze fruits and vegetables ? Fruit . Ripe ( but not overripe ) fruit should be used . Wash them , and sort according to size . Working in small batches , remove pits , seeds , and blemishes . For fruits that turn brown , apply ascorbic acid or sugar and citric acid . Most fruits benefit from packing in dry sugar or a sugar syrup . Small , whole fruits ( e.g. , berries ) can be spread on a tray and individually frozen , then packed in a freezer bag or other airtight container . Vegetables . Most vegetables need blanching . To blanch , immerse in boiling water over high heat or steam over rapidly boiling water ( steam ) . After blanching , transfer to ice bath for the same amount of time as blanched . Drain and dry . Freeze either by packing in a freezer bag with as much air as possible removed , or by allowing to freeze on a tray , then putting in a bag or other container . General guideline is 8 -- 12 months for best quality . The above is a very quick summary of Iowa State University 's <URL> . The five-page document includes full details on over forty fruits and vegetables . Feel free to ask here on Seasoned Advice if that guide does n't answer your question . What about mold ? Some foods are expected to have mold in them ( e.g. , P. roqueforti in Roquefort cheese ) . Unexpected mold , however , is something to be concerned about . Mold can grow even on refrigerated foods , and even those high enough in salt or sugar to deter bacteria . Some molds produce mycotoxins . Mold growth can be minimized by cleaning the refrigerator every few months ( use a mixture of 1 tablespoon of baking soda per quart of water , then rinse with plain water , then dry ) , by keeping dishcloths , sponges , mops , etc. clean and fresh-smelling ; and keeping indoor humidity levels under 40 % . In general , the visible surface mold on a food is only a small part of the actual mold growth . For most foods , any visible unexpected mold grow
If they 're gummy , they might still have too much moisture in them . Try roasting them at higher temperatures or longer and see if they crisp up .
<URL> will convert weights to volumes , and says that you should use .53 of a US cup .
I do n't see why not , it 's the same process Many commercial brewers make a barley and rye malt for beer ( < 10 % rye ) . A good brewers supply shop should have rye malt too Rye is around ~ 40 % carbohydrate , while barley is ~ 45 % carbohydrate , so rye is not as sweet , but has a more interesting taste ( IMHO ) The differences for making malt rye over malt barley , assuming you have hulled rye : Rye absorbs water faster , so steep for less time ( ~ 30 % less ) Do not let it go mushy or it will not germinate Rye is more fragile with no hull and a thin " skin " . So must be handled more carefully once steeped . If it is damaged it wont germinate Lower germination rate ( due to above ) , so less conversion , so less sugars and flavour Otherwise just follow the normal malt barley process , which is well documented
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
You could use the corkscrew in its classic role . Bore a hole , and then use the corkscrew to pull the sugar out in one piece . You should probably lay the tub on its side for this , as the sugar weight is probably too much to stay on the corkscrew . The other option , though rather extreme , is to cut away the plastic tub with wire cutters or shears . That way , you 're peeling the tub away , and will be left with the same lump , but no tub .
That 'd depend on the exact microbes involved in making it unsafe ( or , since you probably do n't know , the short answer is " no " ) . There are basically two ways microbial growth makes food unsafe : either by the presence of the microbes themselves , or by toxins the microbes create . Sufficiently heating the food will kill enough microbes , so those ones will be taken care of . Unfortunately , some of the toxins are heat stable , and it is n't possible enough to heat the food hot enough to destroy them ( without turning the food to charcoal ) . The FDA 's <URL> gives details about specific pathogens and their heat-stable and heat-labile toxins .
Speaking as a Brit - we are a nation of chip lovers :) Use an oil which can cope with the high temperature such as groundnut . For that proper chip experience ( * heart attack alert * ) add some beef dripping or lard . I add a small amount to give the chips a nice flavour . Whilst heating the oil regulary dip a chip in the oil . When it starts to bubble then it 's time to cook . If the oil is too cold the chips will absorb it and they 'll go soggy . ( This is easier to achieve with a traditional chip pan or I prefer a deep saucepan ) . For the perfect chip the potato variety is important but this is personal taste . Last seasons reds will make dark delicious chips but I prefer new potatoes which make a crisper lighter coloured chip . ( The potato variety also affects the colour when cooked ) . Finally , drain on kitchen paper and a sprinkle of salt .
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
end question
start question
What is the correct order to both marinate and velvet the meat ?
Be sure to look at this related question too : <URL> <URL> just kind of took this on . They added some nice flavor to the velveting marinade , and then sauced the chunks after cooking . Some kind of adaptation of that concept would probably work well for you . I have done some small experimentation with adding flavors to the egg/cornstarch marinade , and so far I have n't had any problem . As long as you 've got enough egg white and cornstarch to make a light batter , you can add other things for flavor . BTW , the flavor of the velveting recipe in the question I linked to is lovely .
If I recall correctly the differences are slight , but significant . Both have a subtle , delicate flavour with an exceptionally light texture . The Victorian is usually regarded as the healthier , lighter of the two , but I believe this is mostly due to the Génoise usually being rendered as a layer cake with a lavish buttercream filling , though if I remember right it can also be used as a base for madeleines and ladyfingers . The Victorian can be baked thin and carefully rolled with cream for Swiss rolls . The main difference is the Victorian slices disorderly and ' crumby ' while the Génoise retains its form neatly . Both are accompanied well by , and are traditionally served with hot beverages namely tea and coffee . The Italian creation is undecidedly the more complex one to prepare . You 're right about separating the egg whites and beating them separately aerating the mixture further , but I 'm not certain if it would make a noticeable difference in case of sponge cakes but I 'd love it if someone could comment on this .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
<URL> has a nice description of Devil 's Food Cake . Originally , Devil 's Food Cake had a medium dense texture . The colour had a reddish tint that was probably caused by baking soda reacting with cocoa powder . In fact , I have an old cookbook ( The Day by Day Cook Book , 1939 ) that contains a recipe for Red Devil 's Food Cake . This recipe calls for 2 oz . unsweetened chocolate and 1 tsp . of baking soda .
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
Mold grows best in warm , moist conditions . It 's a fungus , not a plant ; light has nothing to do with it . Fresh air does n't really make it grow either , but circulating air does help reduce condensation , depriving mold of moisture . So you really do n't want to seal a breadbox - that 'll just help create a nice moist environment for the mold to grow in . Breadboxes are really just about keeping other pests away from your bread , while still being able to keep it at room temperature . ( It goes stale faster in the fridge . ) If you 're worried about mold growth , you probably just want to freeze some of the bread .
Pectin is a polysacharide found in the cell walls of plants . There are two main divisions of pectin used in cooking : high methoxyl ( HM ) and low methoxyl ( LM ) . The high methoxyl is used in most jam and jelly recipes . It requires sugar and acid to gel . When the pectin is dissolved out of the cell walls it is very dilute and picks up a negative charge that prevents the molecules from binding to each other and gelling . Adding sugar isolates the pectin molecules from some of the water while dding the acid removes their charge . Pectin HM is thermally reversible which means it can be set , melted , and set again . Instead of using sugar and acid to encourage gelling , low methoxyl pectin gels in the presence of calcium . It is used in glazes and reduced sugar jams . It is not thermally reversible . Pectin NH is a type of LM pectin that has been modified to be thermally reversible . The more calcium in a gel the less able that gel will be to melt . Pectin NH gels with calcium but unlike other LM pectins it requires less calcium . This would mean that it could still be melted and reshaped . The recipes that I have seen that use pectin NH both have less sugar and require remolding . From what I have seen pectin NH tends to be more expensive . It is typically used in low-sugar pastry fillings and glazes . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Not sure if there is a correct way . It 's basically skewered hunks of meat on a wood fired BBQ You can do your own Churrasqueira by using a Weber " kettle " style BBQ or a B.D.S. ( Big Drum Smoker ) . Use long steel skewers ( or swords ! ) for your meat and BBQ away Thick steaks of beef and lamb work well . Also try chicken drumsticks and some small Chorizo ( spicy sausage ) Do n't marinate the meat , but toss some coarse salt onto the meat surface before and during cooking . Do n't go crazy with it , but it seems to absorb the roasting flavours and really boost the taste Use a smoky fire , if your wood wo n't smoke add some fresh wood or herbs that do . Try lavender bush ( wood and flower ) , grape vine or kiwifruit vine cuttings , or any other fresh cut aromatic wood Watch the amount of fat dripping onto the hot coals ; too much will make the meat taste bad . Shield the coals as required or trim off large chunks of fat There is no need for motorised skewers that takes the fun out of it . Occasionally turn the meat by hand while enjoying your favourite beverage , and " chewing the fat " with a friend Serve by taking a skewer to the diners plate , and hold skewer nearly vertically above plate . Use an extra sharp carving knife and slice onto the plate with a downwards cut so juices and other slicing splatter goes onto the plate and not onto the diners If you are having a Churrasco party , give each diner a flippable symbol ( e.g. red/green ) to indicate to the server ( probably you ) " GIVE ME MORE ! " , or " I am stuffed " . Serve a round of each meat as their outer layer becomes done Coolest Churrasco cooker I could find The rails on the top are what the skewers rest on Following the car theme , some more cool Churrasco cookers here <URL>
I never boil rice noodles . Just soak them in cold water for about an hour .
Short answer : yes , milk chocolate differs from chocolate by the milk its manufacture . Real chocolate ( as opposed to many other confections ) is made from chocolate liquer , which despite the name , is not alchoholic , or even liquid at room temperature . The fruit of the <URL> tree contains seeds , known as beans . The harvested fruits are allowed to ferment , bringing many flavor and chemical changes to the beans , as well as removing the pulpy fruit . The beans are then husked for the seeds inside , the nibs . The nibs are the first true chocolate product , although they are not sweet . The nibs are roasted , and then ground . This is chocolate liquer , a solid colloid of cocoa fat and solid particles . It would be solid at room temperature , but the grinding process melts it . The cocoa liquer can be pressed to separate out the cocoa butter ( as for use in the cosmetics industry ) , leaving cocoa powder , but that is not the point of your question . Instead , to manufacture chocolate , the liquer is <URL> , a mechanical process that makes the suspended particles much smaller , part of what gives chocolate its smooth mouthfeel . Various products can be made from chocolate liquer , or cocoa butter , including : baking chocolate - essentially , just chocolate liquer , hardened and tempereded . May or may not be fully conched , so may not be as smooth as chocolate intended for eating . chocolate or dark chocolate - Chocolate liquer , possibly extra cocoa butter , and sugar . Minor optional ingredients often included are vanilla or other flavorings , and lecithen , an emulsifier . milk chocolate - Same as dark chocolate , with the addition of condensed milk or milk solids , depending on whether it is made via the Swiss method or the Hershey method white chocolate - cocoa butter , plus sugar and other flavorings chocolate chips - Another form of chocolate in a particular shape . Many manufacturers do n't make these from true chocolate , but rather substitute another fat which does n't melt as easily as cocoa butter , for economy , and so the chips hold their shape in the oven chocolate bunny - Chocolate molded into the shape of a bunny , then tempered and cooled German 's chocolate - A brand name of quite sweet dark chocolate Chocolate labels which list " cocoa percentage " are saying what proportion of the chocolate is cocoa liquer or additional cocoa butter or cocoa solids -- that is , stuff from nibs , as opposed to sugar or other flavorings . The cocoa percentage for milk chocolate tends to be much lower than that of dark chocolates , although not every milk chocolate has a lower percentage than every dark chocolate . See <URL> for information on tempering chocolate , which gives its snappy mouthfeel . Edit : On dairy products in dark chocolate : I was very surprised at Lemontwist 's comment , so I did some googling and found this <URL> : A good quality dark or semi-sweet chocolate will only have sweetener / sugar in some form added , and may also include a touch of soy lecithin as an emulsifier . These brands are milk-free by ingredients , but keep in mind that most brands of chocolate are made on shared equipment . That is , an inherently milk-free dark chocolate may be made on the same equipment as milk chocolate . See below for my note on cross-contamination issues . The complications arrive as some brands of dark and semi-sweet chocolate do include milk ingredients for a " smoother " end result . This is particularly true in mainstream brands like Hershey 's . Some ways that you may see milk listed in the ingredients include milk solids , milk , milk powder , whey , butter oil or butterfat ( see the Ask Alisa post on butter oil ) , or even casein . If milk is in the ingredients , it should be listed in a clearly identifiable manner per the labeling laws , but still , use caution . This is still in line with the information I provided , as I did mention " other flavorings " in dark chocolate , and it is not a universal or even common practice as far as I know . For people with strong allergies , the cross-contamination issue may be more of an issue . Vegans would have more of an issue , as lecithen is a very common ingredient in chocolate of all types , and may be animal sourced . Vegans would specifically need to reseearch and obtain chocolates that meet that standard . Googling will find many such products , but I did not find an easy single reference list .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
For most vegetables , it is very difficult , if not impossible , to retain their quality once they have been cut . Your efforts would be much better spent either improving your cutting/chopping proficiency or in cooking entire meals ahead of time . Also , you could prepare components , such as sauteed onions or peppers , and maintain relatively high-quality versions of those . Meat is a different story . You can do preparations in advance , and freeze individual portions for later use without degrading quality . The best way to avoid freezer burn is to have a very cold freezer ( ironically , easing the cooling settings on your freezer was having the opposite of your desired effect ) , and to prevent your food from coming in contact with air . You can use a freezer bag for each food item , making sure you squeeze all the air out of it first . However , if you are really serious about this , you would be well-served by investing in a vacuum sealer . Air is the big enemy here , so mechanically removing air from the system will greatly extend freezer life .
In my " expert " opinion as a great lover of all things pork , I say yes , that marinade will be fine overnight . It 's quite acidic , and that 's a concern , but it 's not so acidic as to create mush . You 'll be fine marinating overnight . As a matter of fact , I 'm surprised that the recipe does n't say " 2 hours up to overnight " .
I have never heard of Tofu being called " vegetable meat " . There are some fake meat types based on different types of soya products ( or also other plant proteins ) , like " fake duck " . But the only product I have seen bearing the generic label " vegetable meat " is <URL> . It is made from soya beans whose fat has been extracted to be used for oil production . As for " non artificial " , I have no idea what your personal definition of " artificial " is . It does n't grow on trees , but then neither does butter , and I have never heard people condemn butter as " artificial " . It is a processed product , and it is not a traditional process , but I ca n't tell you if it is more or less processed than traditional heavily processed foods such as sugar . Also , the amount of chemicals involved is probably dependent on the manufacturer . I guess you have to trust the regulatory organs of your country to not allow the production of food containing something harmful . Organic ? This depends on the manufacturer too . If he adhers to organic production guidelines , then it is organic . And hygienic ? This is even harder to answer , it depends on not only the manufacturer 's decisions about the process , but also on the day-to-day process quality measures his employees take . There is no reason to say that " vegetarian meat " is the same as vegetarian Chinese food . A cup of rice served in a Chinese restaurant is vegetarian and Chinese , but does not include any kind of meat substitute . If I cook a French recipe and use textured soy protein as meat replacement , this makes it vegetarian , but not Chinese . There can be some overlap between the two , but I doubt that it is big . China has had social conditions leading to vegetarian lifestyles ( poverty , religious restrictions ) for long before production of such protein began . I doubt that any restaurants in the world are famous for it , mainly because it is a poor meat analogue . Yes , it offers a high amount of protein . But it does not taste really like meat . World-famous restaurants are world-famous because they offer high-quality food , and no food using inferior substitutions is high-quality . Yes , there are good vegetarian restaurants , but they do n't make poor imitations of meat dishes using fake meats , they offer vegetarian dishes made from good ingredients . Some of them can feature some of the more popular soy products like tofu , but they are probably not famous for their tofu , because the tofu is not the main star of all dishes . This all assumes that what you refer to is actually the textured vegetable protein I linked , but that is far from clear from your question . Other possibilities exist , because people have long tried to find a suitable meat substitute for vegetarians and for people who ca n't afford real meat . Most are soy-based , like the mentioned tofu and tempeh , but there are also wheat-based ones like seitan , and I think that there was some kind of beans product used sometimes instead of meat . Without you giving us more information , we ca n't conclude for sure which one you mean . But the answers to the other questions is about the same , with the exception that some processing methods are older than others and so can be considered more traditional ( in case this plays a role for your understanding of " artificial " ) .
My preferred method by far would be heating them in a pot along with some kind of sauce . Failing that , I think I might try putting them in a tightly covered pot in the oven along with just a little water ( just a tablespoon or so ) -- that would gently heat them and also keep them moist .
For burgers I buy 2-3 different cuts - usually some sirloin and the end of a tenderloin ( fattier and cheaper ) and whatever else looks good . Slice thinly and stick in the freezer for 20 mins or so before you start grinding . I then mix in some finely minced onion and garlic , salt , pepper and a little Worcestershire sauce ( all optional and to taste ) before grilling .
Not too surprisingly given where you found it , it 's called an <URL> in most parts of the world . In Israel , it 's just called a chopped salad or ( according to the wiki article - I never personally encountered this ) an Arab salad .
I think Doug and yossarian both touched on the main points , but to summarize , there are four reasons why you might not want to use a meat thermometer for candy : Range A meat thermometer might go from 140 F to 220 F or something like that , which is plenty for meat . Candy often requires a range from about 75 degrees ( chocolate ) up to 400 + degrees ( hard candy ) . The range on most thermometers is simply not sufficient for most candies . Accuracy When you temper chocolate , 88 F degrees is an ideal working temperature ( for dark chocolate ) . Some people would consider 91 so high you might want to think about starting over . When you make caramels , the difference between 235 F and 240 F can be the difference between wonderfully chewy caramels and a sugar-flavored rock . If you ca n't read one degree increments at a glance , you need a real candy thermometer . Speed Meat thermometers often take 30 seconds to a minute to get an accurate result . When you are making candies , you have to be able to tell what the temperature is right now . Contamination I do n't want the thermometer that goes in semi-raw meat anywhere near my chocolate .
Many stainless steels are ferric , so will work with induction cooktops . Aluminum can not interact with magnetism , so can not work on induction , so many companies offer stainless steel non-stick pans for the induction market . You wo n't see much difference in performance , and since it 's not what you want in the first place I 'd send it back unused .
There are two reasons ( that have also been discussed in many other questions ) Baking powder is n't just sodium bicarbonate + acid . It often also contains aluminum compounds that release gas when they are heated . That means they will make bubbles not just when the batter is mixed but also when it is baking . Baking powder is ph neutral while baking soda is basic . Recipes will often include mostly baking powder with some soda to neutralize acidic ingredients . See also : <URL>
end question
start question
Why would a recipe be sensitive to the brand of cream cheese I bought ?
Philadelphia Brand ingredients : Pasteurized Milk and Cream , Whey Protein Concentrate , Salt , Carob Bean Gum , Xanthan Gum , Cheese Culture . Organic Valley Cream Cheese ( do n't know which brand you used ) ingredients : Organic Pasteurized Milk and Organic Cream , Cheese Culture , Salt , Organic Locust Bean Gum . Nancys Organic Cream Cheese ingredients : Organic cream , Organic nonfat dry milk , L. acidophilus , B. bifidum and 4 strains of Lactic cultures , salt . < -- no gum in this one The fat specs for all 3 brands are about the same . I 'd say it 's any combination of : the gums used did the manufacturer use milk and cream processed through ultra high temperature ( UHT ) pasteurization what is the moisture content ( hard to determine from a label ) maybe human error by the Baker ??
I think the Albacore and Sea Bass are both great ideas . I 'm not sure about the Swordfish . It would be fine in the Crudo or Ceviche , but I do n't know how it would be as Sashimi . Fish that I 'd look at for this are : Yellowtail Halibut Tuna Sea Bass Scallops ( to think outside the " fish " box a little ) Salmon I 'm not sure if those are " in season " for you , and I ca n't find a good resource to determine that . I 'd suggest getting a list of 5-6 fish and heading to your local fishmonger / farmers market / or Whole Foods and ask what 's in season . Personally , I 'd do Tuna , Yellowtail , and Scallops if you wanted to do 3x3 .
What you want is cream with 35 % -40 % milkfat , and no gelatine or other stabilizers for whipping . If you use a lighter cream , then it will not have the rich , creamy texture , and evenly thick consistency you seek . In fact , if you use a light enough cream , it will not thicken properly . Now we enter the murky realm of regional naming differences , trying to find the appropriate kind of cream ! In Australia , this would be called pure cream ( 35-56 % milkfat ) ... which might be the same as " cooking thickened cream . " Read the label and make sure it is just cream , not gelatin or foam stabilizers like " thickened cream " . It could also be labelled " single cream " too ( ~ 35 % milkfat ) . In America , we call it heavy cream , or heavy whipping cream , and it is defined as 35 % + milkfat , and is generally around 38 % . In the UK , <URL> I found the uses a mixture of milk and " double cream " ( cream with 48 % + milkfat ) . They mix 100 mL whole fat milk + 426 mL of double cream . The final milkfat content is somewhere around 40 % . In the rest of the EU , the same procedure appears to be the best bet , since I ca n't find clear names for heavier creams besides double cream ( which appears to be the same as the UK ) . Edit : You may also be able to get a good result using straight double cream . I 'm looking at a French recipe that uses it . The catch is , of course , that while the minimum fat content is specified , actual fat content in double cream can vary considerably , potentially giving erratic results .
<URL> says it 's not air and water : the squeakiness is caused by rubbing against the network of protein strands in the curds , and the squeakiness fades over time because the protein network deteriorates . With respect to microwaving , it says : The reason microwaving helps reinvigorate some of the squeakiness is that the heat starts to alter the amount of moisture trapped inside the curds and creates another bout of hydrolysis , dropping more negatively charged hydrogen ions from casein proteins while they bind to the internal heating water . I 'm inclined to believe this because it explains why cheese curds are different from , say , cheese , and it 's a more detailed explanation consistent with the article cited in Laura 's answer ( saying the protein networks are more elastic when fresh ) , which also explains the effect of the microwave !
Since the original recipe does not say explicitly that the scallops should be cooked from a frozen state , you should thaw them in the refrigerator before making the dish . Do not precook them -- just thaw them , and cook them as per the recipe . You will also want to pat them dry with a paper towel or lint free towel , so that they are as dry as reasonably possible .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking , is very detailed in his explanation of how cheese " works " . He describes three stages . In the first stage , lactic acid bacteria convert milk sugar into lactic acid . In the second stage , which overlaps with the first one , rennet ( an extract of calf stomach - or , to be more precise , chymosin , a protein found in this extract and now also obtainable from yeasts and the like ) curdles the casein proteins and watery whey is drained from the concentrated curds . And finally , in the third stage , the cheese ripens , and a whole host of different enzymes do all sorts of things to flavour and texture . According to McGee , Acid and Rennet form very different kinds of curd structures -- acid a fine , fragile gel , rennet a coarse but robust , rubbery one -- so their relative contributions , and how quickly they act , help determine the ultimate texture of the cheese . He goes on to describe how mostly acid coagulation leads to softer cheeses and mostly rennet-based coagulation leads to firmer curds and harder cheeses . Draining of the whey also strongly affects the final texture , as Sobachatina points out in <URL> . Pressing firmly expels much whey and thus leads to a harder cheese ; softer cheeses are just allowed to drain some whey by gravity . But there 's another important factor here : heat . Some cheeses are " cooked " in their whey at this stage , to a temperature as high as 55C ( 130F ) for a rock-hard Parmesan or about 38C ( 100F ) for a somewhat softer Tommes , and this expels even more whey from the curd particles ( and , of course , also affects flavour ) . At this stage , salt is also added . Salt draws some moisture out of the curds as well and is a catalyst for the denaturing of casein , thus reinforcing the protein structure . McGee also discusses aging of cheese at some length , but he does n't really touch on the effect of aging on the structure of cheese . That effect is certainly there ; a very young Gouda cheese is almost as soft as a Camembert , whereas a very old one gets close to Parmesan hardness ( if it does n't crumble to dust ) . I imagine that this is due to some moisture escaping the cheese , but also due to the fact that the protein networks keep growing more and more interconnected as the cheese ripens .
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
Unfortunately , even if you press it , it will tend to crumble . The way the curds form in small curd cottage cheese forms a skin that makes them tend to fall apart . The same thing can happen in making Indian style paneer if you let the curds boil . ( At least , I think it is why it happened ! ) Probably your best bet is to drain it then make something like vada or kofte ( for malai kofte ) out of it , mixing in some maida or cooked potato or besan and kneading it into a dough , then forming it into balls or patties . I think it will still be tasty , even though it is n't what you planned for .
With regards to the grit , if they are n't farmed mussels ( which generally are fairly clean ) you may want to give them a soak for a while . This will give them the chance to expel any further sand/grid they may contain . There are varying theories of whether to use tap water , salt water , sea water or various other concoctions . And admittedly there are those who say any form of soaking will do all sorts of harm to the flavour . But if the alternative is disappointing gritty mussels , why not give it a try . And as always , ask your fishmonger for advice . They will know the origin of the product , and whether or not you need to take extra steps in preparing them . As for discarding opened mussels , do n't just discard them when they seem open on arrival . If the shell is not cracked , give them a light tap ( on the counter or with a knife ) and see whether or not they will close in response . If they close in response , they are fine . If they do n't close or tell you to stop it , then discard them . And if two thirds of the batch really are dead ... I personally would not necessarily trust the other third to be in great shape .
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
This answer assumes the US-type of pancake . There are some pancake recipes with no egg at all . So the question is , what does the egg do in a pancake recipe ? It contributes soem fat and emulsifiers from the yolk , some water , and a bunch of protein ( mostly from the whites ) . This will add structure to the pancake , some eggy flavor and richness , and perhaps somewhat mitigate the danger of toughening the pancake through over mixing , by inhibiting gluten formation ( mostly due to the fat and lecithin from the yolk ) . However , as you have already discovered , the egg is not completely essential to the pancake , which basically a griddled quick bread , and can easily get all of the structure it needs from the gelatinization of the starch from the flour . Adding lots more eggs would start to move you into custard or quiche-like territory , where the product would have a lot more egg flavor , and start to take on a more scrambled-egg type texture depending on how far you go . You will get less flavor but more textural change from using just whites . If you love pancakes , I would make them with any pancake recipe you like , and enhance your protein intake from other food items . Personally , I love a scrambled egg , and they go great with pancakes . Edit : I see in your profile that you are in France . Since we also call French style crepes the same thing in English , I am thinking you probably do mean US style pancakes , so the above would apply . If you are thinking of crepes , they tend to be a touch eggier than pancakes to start with , which helps give them the structure to role or fold easily while still being so thin . I imagine that they could take a bit more egg still , with some change in texture and more egg flavor , but might start to stick to the pan more , as egg really likes to stick . At the extreme end , you would essentially have thin fried scrambled egg , which you can roll up with fillings , as some other cuisines do . Still , I am not an expert on crepes ; I have never made them myself . If that is what you are asking about , hopefully someone else can give you a more knowledgable answer .
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
The purpose of the beer ( and the vinegar ) in this case is to add some of the malty , fermenty flavors typical of longer-fermented or sourdough breads . You can either leave it out and replace it with an equal quantity of water or use a <URL> The carbonation from the beer might add a little extra lift at the start to establish some air cells and work the gluten a bit , but with an 18 hour room-temperature bulk rise , that benefit would be negligible . In most beers ( especially large US commercial bottlers ) there is n't enough active yeast left in the bottle by the time it is drunk to do anything either . The author of the original article ( Cook 's Illustrated # 90 , Jan 2008 ) added the beer and vinegar in order to add flavor to a bread recipe that already produced decent bread . My bread now had tang [ from the vinegar ] , but it lacked complexity . What I needed was a concentrated shot of yeasty flavor . As I racked my brain , I realized that beyond bread , there is another commonly available substance that relies on yeast for flavor : beer .
Ingredients : Potato starch , tapioca flour , leavening ( calcium lactate [ non-dairy ] , calcium carbonate , citric acid ) , cellulose gum , carbohydrate gum Ener G Egg Replacer has always worked well for me . I keep it in the house for times when I do n't have eggs on hand and want to bake something . There is also recipes like <URL> for vegan pancakes .
It 's a personal preference . It 's certainly edible , and it wo n't hurt you . I find the texture a little weird . Generally you can eat the rind of almost any cheese . However , make sure you 're not mistaking a wax coating for rind .
I have just used the same mix and the same baking time , just using a mini muffin pan in place of a 9x9 or 9x13 pan . It worked quite well , although I suggest using the mini muffin liners in the pan , because cleaning all those individual spaces in the pan after brownie baking goes much smoother . I found that without the liners , the tiny brownies seemed to stick quite a bit , even in my good Pampered Chef pan .
Well , yes and no . A lot of recipes for semifreddo are n't truly semifreddo because they are hard frozen . Recipes like that can be fried just like ice cream . The key to fried ice cream is to hard freeze the scoops of ice cream . By definition , that is n't semifreddo , but definitions do n't seem to matter much to writers of recipes . So , if the " stuff " is hard frozen , it can be coated and fried like fried ice cream . Perhaps after being deep fried , the name " semifreddo " is more apropos .
It depends on the preparation . I have the Creative Whip which comes with a little recipe book and not all of the recipes demand that you chill after charging . For example the " instant chocolate mousse " is really instant . The only liquid ingredient is the cream itself which is already chilled , and the gas expansion inside the canister chills it even further , so it 's ready right away . On the other hand , if you 're making something with gelatin , carrageenan , or any other gelling agent which needs to set , then you 'll obviously need to fill the canister while it 's still a liquid ( otherwise it 's going to be rather hard to whip , not to mention hard to get into the canister itself ! ) and then chill to set it . Basically it 's simply a question of how cold your liquid is before it goes into the canister vs. how cold you want it to be when you serve it . If you can chill it to the correct temperature beforehand , and that wo n't prevent you from whipping it ( as it would with an actual gel ) , then by all means chill first . In the specific case when you 're using creams and/or cheeses to make a mousse or espuma , you almost never need to chill it in the whipper itself - although it wo n't hurt either . By the way , if you 're making a gel or anything else that needs to set , it 's best to chill it gradually in an ice water bath and shake it frequently as it chills , in order to keep the gas dispersed . If you just charge it and stick it in the fridge , you may find it very hard to dispense afterward .
I come from a culture where rice is our staple and I have a rice cooker . Here are some of the advantages from my perspective : Rice is perfect everytime -- not stuck to the bottom , not watery , not mushy and stuck together , etc. . If you make rice in a pot , and the heat is too high , it will boil and spill over creating a mess . You can switch the rice cooker on and go do other things , whereas it is dangerous to walk away from a stove . The rice cooker can be used for other things such as cooking lentils and steaming vegetables . Rice cookers are cheap .
end question
start question
Does the speed of opening of a bottle of wine influence its flavour ?
This seems to be a myth based on the idea that wine can be ' bruised ' by popping the cork or handling the bottle roughly . ' Dr Vinny ' , Wine Spectator Magazine 's advice expert , has this to say on the subject : Someone asked whether or not making a cork " pop " when you pull it will bruise the wine . Others have also asked about bruising in relation to decanting . I 've never had a wine that was fine one moment and damaged the next because of handling , and can safely say that bruising wine is a myth . Source : <URL> and also : A wine does not get " bruised " by moving it around . And let me address some other myths , such as that wine will bruise if you make a cork " pop " or bruise if you decant it : no and no . Outside of smashing a bottle on a concrete floor , there is nothing I know of that will take a perfectly fine wine and damage it in one movement . Source : <URL> You are more likely to have a problem with an old , crumbly cork falling into the wine than some pseudo-homeopathic magic going on when the cork pops .
Some of the volatile flavors will be diminished , but I 've managed to make fairly good drinks with the help of mint that I kept frozen . In my experience , freezer burn starts to become visible after two or three months , and starts to harm flavor probably around 4-6 months . I 'm not sure preparing the drink will work really well , but if you just defrost the drink in the refrigerator , it probably wo n't be terrible . Active thawing with heat will probably cause some harm . Many infusions and teas become a bit cloudy and lose color after bottling or freezing , which is why most bottled teas use an enzyme ( not usually a listed ingredient ) designed to mitigate that .
It 's usually safe to eat the skins of potatoes . If there is a greenish tint under the skin , you 'll want to peel down to below the greenish bit . If you do n't , it could lead to solanine poisoning . See <URL> and <URL>
There are two types of paprika extracts ; one , as you mention , is mainly a food colour . I understand this is made from raw , unsmoked paprika . It has no real flavour . The other is mostly a smoke flavour . I believe it 's taken from the smoked paprika leftovers , not from the raw paprika . Neither is any good for simulating the colour , texture , and taste of paprika . There are also many types of paprika , each having a different level of spice , colour , oil , and smoke . It is just a question of taste and culture to which one you like . So getting an extract to match what you think paprika is , is also difficult .
Because of the different shapes , different pastas will occupy different volumes of space both before and after cooking . There are two answers that readily occur to me , one simple one more complex . The simple solution , of course , is just to make too much . Cook your pasta , put in the casseroles with sauce or adding the sauce after , depending on your recipe , and if you have too much ( you should , you planned for it ) let it cool , add mayo , mustard , onion , some pickle relish and make pasta salad . Or throw in soup . Or ... Option two is to measure your pasta by volume when dry , assuming that it approximately doubles in size . So you 'll need to fill one of your casseroles with dry pasta , and that should give you enough to make two casseroles worth , once you have cooked the pasta .
Alright , I 'll go ahead and post this as an answer . The fact of the matter is the Cavendish/dessert bananas should not be refrigerated . They will develop a sickly green/grey tinge to their skin . This does not really affect flavor , texture , or to the best of my knowledge , nutritional value , but it makes them look like ass . Now , to the crux of your issue : you say this is a commercial kitchen . And herein lies your problem : your produce almost certainly gets delivered in a refrigerated truck . What the delivery drivers should be doing , but almost certainly are n't , is wrapping the bananas ( and tomatoes , but I digress ) in a nice heavy blanket . But let 's be realistic , no truck driver is going to waste time doing that . So your bananas ( and tomatoes ! ) are showing up , pre-refrigerated by your produce purveyor . And there 's not a damn thing you can do about it . Or is there ? There is something you can do . But it wo n't be easy , or particularly fun , unless you 're a sadistic bastard who likes yelling at people . Get yourself a laser thermometer and meet the delivery truck when it rolls up . When the door opens , temp the bananas . ( Actually , you should do this with every time/temperature sensitive product you receive . ) If the bananas are less than ~ 50 ° F , send 'em back . Demand a fresh case . Refuse to pay . Keep doing it until you get the bananas you want . After a few rounds , your driver will make damn sure the bananas are perfect .
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
More head = less carbonation , which will change the mouth-feel of the drink , albeit largely imperceptibly for most people ( myself included ) . Less carbonation will also change the actual perception of flavour ; it will taste sweeter , mostly .
A 9 " round pan that is 1 1/2 " deep takes 6 cups of batter , while one that is 2 " deep takes 8 . That 's for totally full to the brim . This <URL> says about the amount of batter from a box : An average 2-layer cake mix yields 4 to 5 1/2 cups of batter . and should have a bunch of helpful guides to using batter for non-standard pans .
Most of the <URL> . So unopened , you should have no problem storing at room temp . Once you open the bottle , microorganism 's can get in . With a sugary liquid like Apple juice , wild yeasts will find a happy home , and ferment up a bubbly alcoholic apple beverage for you . This can take a week or two to happen , and the result is usually tasty rather than deadly . Sometimes you 'll end up with vinegar rather than an alcoholic ferment . There 's some small chance of picking up a nasty microbe in your apple juice over a three day period , but it was never enough to stop people from drinking unrefrigerated cider in the days before Pasteurization or refrigeration .
One technique , especially in Mexican foods , for recipes that use dried chilies , is to toast the pods before using them . Toast them over medium heat until the pod blisters , but do n't blacken too much . They are very thin , so going from done to ruined takes only a few seconds of in attention . Be careful !
You are relying on very different forms of heat . Conduction vs Convection vs Radiation <URL> <URL> <URL> What happens when you heat something ? A number of things . Proteins Coagulate Starches Gelatinize Sugars Caramelize Water Evaporates Fats Melt Depending on how you cook it , you 're going to get different forms of each of those at different rates . On a stove , you can avoid too much moisture and fat from leaving your food by cooking it extremely quickly ( in a stir-fry ) . . You ca n't sear something in an oven and you ca n't roast something on the stove . The two are simply not the same , because fundamentally the two are not the same , you are not going to get the same results . It 's really as simple as that . You ca n't take two entirely methods and argue that you get the same results .
There are two common categories of Japanese korokke , one made with potato or another starchy vegetable ( kabocha , a Japanese squash , is also common ) , and the other made with a roux , typically with corn and/or crab , called a cream korokke . In a vegetable-based one , which may have additions like ground beef , sesame seeds , certain pickled vegetables , or other seasonings , the basic texture is the same as any other vegetable puree or mash . The cream korokke should have a texture of a thick bechamel , but when hot , will be " almost " melted , and should come across as creamy . For the vegetable ones , the texture is trickier to master than it may appear . Mashed potatoes are deceptively simple ; mash at too high a temperature , and you may end up with a gluelike texture that is n't pleasant . Mash at too low a temperature , and you 'll end up with hard , dry chunks instead . There 's a magic temperature range , which if I remember right is around 160F , at which mashing produces a very nice texture . I may add salt and pepper while mashing , but usually not other ingredients . I prefer to use a potato ricer for this now , though I have done ok with a fork in the past . Once mashed , I 'll integrate the other fillings . If the texture of the potato mash seems too dry when you 've prepared it , you may consider adding an egg yolk to the puree , which I 've done on occasion . Too much may make the dough hard to form into balls , so be conservative about it . Although it does n't appear to be the specific case you 're concerned with , for the cream korokke , the ideal balance of the thickness of the bechamel is probably subject to some debate , but basically you want to balance the illusion of liquid creaminess with the ability to work the chilled bechamel into a shape that 's sturdy enough to bread and not prone to exploding in the fryer . For reference , there are also variations with boiled eggs in the middle , and there are some made from okara ( soy mash leftover from tofu making ) but that 's another story .
As a beer brewer , I 'm pretty concerned with fizz ;) Since the below may be a little tl ; dr , the short answer to your question is , " I do n't think so . " This is actually the first time I 've heard of the metal spoon " trick " , so I ca n't directly comment on that , but I 'll share a little of what I know about carbonation . Carbonation is carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) that is dissolved in the liquid ( beer , champagne , soda ) . The fizz is that CO2 coming out of solution and escaping into the air . Keeping it cold helps keep the fizz , as CO2 dissolves more readily into a cold liquid . And conversely , comes out of a warm liquid more readily . Ever pour a glass of warm soda or champagne straight after opening ? It 'll foam over everywhere . The only way to not lose all that CO2 is to seal the container . Even then , the CO2 will come out of solution and pressurize the headspace ( space in the top of the container ) . That 's why you get a hiss when you first open a bottle . Again , temperature comes into play . In a warm bottle , more of the CO2 comes out of solution and pressurizes the headspace . Chill that same bottle down , and the CO2 can dissolve back into the liquid , giving you a sparkling beverage again . Now , back to the spoon . I would think that putting a spoon in the carbonation liquid would produce <URL> , causing the CO2 to come out of solution faster . This is why many beer glass manufacturers are coming out with laser-etched designs on the bottom of their glasses - the effervescence caused by the nucleation points helps bring out the hop aromas .
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
actually seafood 's country origin does make a very relevant difference . Why ? ocean floor type , water tempearture , tradewinds , upwelling and feed availability . Best octopus comes from Spain and Portugal ( actually portuguese octopus is the best ) Viet , China , Indonesia or Mexican octopus live in hot water . Portuguese coast has a very mild water temp , from 10 C to 20 C and a lot of sun exposure that triggers phytoplankton blooms . I could expand on this as I am a professional fisherman . Now , any country can import any seafood from anywhere and then label it as " theirs " so one must know which species are native to a certain location . Sustainability is also very imnportant and both Portugal and Spain are EU members where sustainability is a very serious matter .
<URL> tells us this is a myth : Many tea companies , and even some reputable entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture , have made misleading generalizations about the caffeine content of broad classes of tea . It is a widespread myth that black tea contains more caffeine than green tea , and another myth that white tea contains the least caffeine of all teas . They indicate that brewing method is the main determiner of caffeine levels in the brewed tea . The source article goes on to cite various credible scientific sources , which raise the credibility of this assertion . Unfortunately , most of their links have gone bad , which makes it harder to check the background science . This <URL> does indicate slightly different levels , but that is likely to be a result of different brewing details across tea types rather than fundamental to the tea plant itself .
Generically speaking meat that is appropriate for a braise is tougher and has connective tissue that can be turned to gelatin by the long slow cooking process . As you 've noted , meat that is tender can be " cooked to death " using that same method , so I would , generally , recommend against using a braise . However , a stove top braise can go quickly without ruining the meat , if you keep it short and treat the braising liquid as more of a sauce than anything else . I would suggest that you brown each side of your lamb chops , then add all your other ingredients . Depending on the amount of liquid your original recipe calls for , you might want to cut back . I would n't want more than 1/2 cup or so of liquid . " Braise " covered on the top of the stove for 1/2 hour , never going past a simmer . Pull out the chops and cover , while you reduce the braising liquid to make it more sauce-like , then spoon onto the chops . Note that you wo n't have the long time to meld flavors , and if there are big chunks of garlic or onions , they wo n't be a sweet as in the longer braise . But you should get a serviceable dish .
<URL> . The beans themselves have a much subtler flavor , a bit closer to tea really . Try tasting a light roast coffee compared to a medium roast or dark roast at your local coffee house . The differences are readily apparent . The coffee you describe was most likely a dark roast which generally has a quite smoky and even burnt character .
It 's a little hard to understand exactly what you 're asking , but flavor and fragrance scientists have been at this for a long time , and yes , there are people who specialize in flavor research , using methods like " collecting headspace " ( gathering flavor compounds ) and analyzing those with techniques such as gas chromatography . They work to figure out what the " most relevant " compounds are in a particular food . Seasoned professionals are usually able to recognize and name specific flavor compounds by smell . But with a few exceptions , most of those chemicals are n't super easy to just buy off of a shelf somewhere without consulting with IFF or a similar company . ( You can buy artificial vanilla , for example , and methyl anthranilate , the dominant flavor from concord grapes used in artificial grape flavoring , as a bird repellant ) . So for most of us without labs for fermenting synbio vanilla , we will find it more cost effective to use the original ingredient . Most foods have hundreds of distinct flavor compounds and fooling the tongue , and especially the nose , is n't super easy . But it can be done in some cases , sure . It 's worth noting that a great portion of how we experience flavor comes from texture in addition to the flavor compounds , however . Even when you buy a flavored chip that is meant to taste like steak or mango salsa or whatever , you 'll often find it a bit off , perhaps the food industry 's equivalent of the " uncanny valley " problem , thanks to texture and context differences .
end question
start question
What does " do . " mean in old recipes ?
I suspect it means " ditto ( the above line ) " : <URL> seems to indicate that " do . " was an old way of abbreviating before the ditto mark ( " ) became widespread .
Drain them first . Your concerns are spot-on , and if you measured and then drained them , you would end up with less than 1 cup of yams . Generally , you can tell be cause the recipe called for 1 cup of drained yams , not 1 cup of yams in their sauce . Drain them , but double check that you wo n't need the liquid for anything later on in the recipe ... That 's a mistake I 've made too many times with canned foods .
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
It means to combine the things listed up to and including the cloves , as in " combine ingredients 4 through 11 " . In that recipe it 's just a helpful hint to tell you where the dry ingredients stop . The recipe is already calling for ground cloves - it mixes them into dry ingredients as-is . When using whole cloves , if you do n't immediately just grind them , you generally cook them in something liquid then strain them out later . ( Similar to cinnamon sticks or whole allspice . ) The cinnamon and nutmeg in the recipe are also ground , not whole . If a recipe wants whole cloves , it will explicitly say , and often count them : 10 [ whole ] cloves .
Long story short : It 's the acid , and any acid will do . Food colourings are a type of dye known as an <URL> . Their effectiveness relies on hydrogen bonding which only works in an acidic environment . It 's not that the vinegar does anything special - not exactly . Rather , adding a few drops of food colouring to a large amount of water would give you something that 's not acidic at all , which will diminish or totally eliminate its effectiveness as a dye . Including vinegar in the mix simply allows you to stretch your rations , so to speak - to dilute the colouring in a whole lot of liquid without making it useless as a dye in the process . Basically , you 're creating a <URL> , which is a well-known term in the textile world , as it 's used to dye wool and other fabrics . Warm temperatures ( 140-180 ° F ) also aid in dye absorption , and apparently - although I 'm no expert in textiles - a small amount of Urea also helps . You could definitely use cream of tartar , citric acid or any other acid , but the recipes using vinegar are generally aiming for a specific pH , so you 'll want to adjust quantities of any other acidifier to match . Presumably , vinegar is just the cheapest and most widely available acidifier .
They go into soup . Or pot pies . Or any of the other myriad industrially produced canned or frozen foods which require chicken stock or chicken flavoring and sometimes canned chicken meat . The millions of cans of Campbell 's have to come from somewhere :-) For smaller home chicken farmers , they probably end up in the stock pot . If you know people who keep backyard flocks , they may be willing to sell you their culls for a very reasonable price .
The crusting is important so that any flowers or other intricate decorations will fix their shape and not slump when left out in warmer temperatures . ( you do n't want to refrigerate iced cakes , as when you remove them from the fridge , you 'll get condensation ) . An icing that crusts quickly means that you can use an icing that 's not quite as stiff for your decorations , and after a few hours of decorating , you 'll come to appreciate that minor difference . The crust is also a benefit when trying to get a <URL> . Some other recipes will crust over time , and <URL> uses more powdered sugar and cream of tartar , but no merangue powder . I suspect it 's the starch in the powdered sugar that ensures that it still crusts up . As for shelf life ... I 'm not 100 % sure . I believe that the eggwhites have been pasteurized , and I 've made flowers , let them dry out , then kept them stored for months at a time ... but I ca n't remember if those were made with merengue powder or not . I suspect that some batches were .
As long as the eggs are n't expired you should be fine . I 've made creme brulee many times with both fresh eggs and not so fresh with similar results .
Ovens are by their nature a high-heat cooking method , and thus create a temperature gradient in the food . The outside of the item is the hottest , because it is in contact with the hot air , and exposed to the radiant ( infrared ) heat coming from the oven walls , ceiling and floor . Heat from the outside then conducts into the inside overtime . The effect of this is that the surface of the food will be the hottest , and the center the coolest. , 180 C ( 350 F ) is a moderate oven . It balances : Cooking the food through Overcooking the outside It is suitable for a wide range of baked goods and other dishes , although often within limits ( especially for non-baked goods ) you can trade temperature and time off . Note that a single oven can only have one temperature , and a moderate oven is good for many cakes and cookies ; for baking and heating through casseroles ; for roasting root vegetables ; for maintaining a braise ; and for roasting many meats ; and many other tasks . If you want to have multiple items in the oven at the same time , it is a good temperature to choose that will give good results for a wide variety of items , even if it is not ideal for every item . Still , it is not ideal for every cooking technique and food item . Low and slow roasting ( for tremendously succulent pulled pork , brisket , and so on ) is done as low as 200 F ( 93 C ) ; some people favor high temperature roasting of certain meats to get a crispy exterior while maintaining a rare interior with temperatures of 450 F ( 232 C ) , or even higher . Many breads are baked at higher temperatures -- and of course , pizza infamously is ideally done at temperatures home ovens can not even achieve , so at home they are often baked at the maximum oven setting around 550 F ( 280 C ) . Deep frying is a separate matter , and it is a complete coincidence that the ideal temperature for deep frying matches that of roasting . The way deep frying works is that the heat of the oil heats the outside of the food , but it is hot enough to nearly instantly vaporize the water at the surface of the food . This water creates a small pocket of vapor around the food , preventing the oil from entering and making the item completely oily . In order for this effect to happen , the oil must be sufficiently hot which starts around 180 C / 350 F. On the other hand , again , you do n't want the food to burn on the outside before it cooks through , but more importantly , you do n't want the oil smoking , and developing off flavors ( many culinary fats have a smoke point starting not too far above these temperatures ) . For these reasons , frying much above this temperature is generally not a good idea . Most ideal frying temperatures are somewhere in the 350 F - 365 F ( 180 C 0 185 C ) range . I suspect many recipes indicate 350 F simply because it has become common and conventional .
" Al dente " is used to refer to food cooked so it is still " firm to bite " but not soft This is very important to pasta which should be removed from the cooking liquid just before it has fully cooked through , as like most foods , it will continue to cook after being removed from the heat source Always gently stir your pasta every minute or so while cooking to ensure it cooks evenly . Then near the end of the cooking time , bite into a piece of paste every 15 seconds or so to see if it has nearly cooked through . It should be firm to bite , and not soft all the way through . It should not resist biting though With some pasta types like Penne etc. you can sometimes actually see the uncooked inner layer ( a thin white line ) if you carefully slice it in half which a knife , or just bite cleanly with your teeth If the pasta is going to be mixed into a hot liquid sauce before serving , take the pasta out of the cooking liquid at an even firmer point The term " al dente " can be used for all cooked foods that should be cooked to just before soft , and then served ( fresh greens , thin meat cuts etc. ) The reason for all of this is that there have been many flavour and nutrition benefits noted when cooking to this point . Also for pasta it tends to fall apart if cooked past " al dente "
Same reason that recipes call for cocoa powder and not a cup of hot chocolate - it does n't contain any water , and it 's easy to control quantities . If you used brewed coffee then the recipe would have to be adjusted for water content - assuming that 's even possible and you 're not adding the instant coffee to other dry ingredients . There may not even be enough water in the recipe to make the adjustment , and if there is , variations on coffee beans/grounds , brewing methods , etc. would make it impractical to estimate the quantity needed . That 's not to say you ca n't use brewed coffee if you want to , but as a recipe writer it 's far simpler to work with fixed/standardized quantities , and brewed coffee is about as far from that as you can possibly get .
Most of the popular ingredients for BBQ sauce ( vinegar/ketchup/sugar etc. ) tend not to mix very well together . I know whenever I 've made BBQ sauce , placing all of the ingredients into a pan together they tend to separate and are difficult to combine . Heating up the ingredients , however , causes them to combine better , and after a short time cooking they will bind together and give a more consistent texture/taste . Otherwise the different ingredients may continue to separate even when mixed , and you may find clumps of sugar that have not dissolved into the liquid etc. . It 's quite possible your BBQ sauce recipe does n't need cooking , so long as things are substituted ( like sugar for sugar syrup or honey ) in order to combine better , but this may well give an incorrect texture because of the change in ingredients . Therefore if the ingredients you use can be combined without being heated , it 's likely that it does n't need cooking , however you may end up with an uneven flavor . As pointed out in a comment by @ToddWilcox , there may also be constituent ingredients that do require cooking , such as garlic or onion , in order to achieve the correct flavor so that they do not taste raw . Some sauces may also specify being cooked simply to make them thicker or more concentrated , as adding thickening agents such as flour may affect the taste , particularly if it is uncooked . So whilst there are some BBQ sauce recipes that may get away with being uncooked based on their ingredients , there are others that will definitely require cooking .
You are asking a surprisingly lot of questions . First , to deal with this question , you need to understand " creaming " . So look <URL> and <URL> . Nothing " creams " as dramatically as granulated sugar with room temperature butter . Those particular ingredients are special for that . Brown sugar does n't accomplish nearly the creaming effect of granulated sugar , but combined with granulated sugar the combination is greater than the sum of its parts . In other words , a 50/50 mix of brown and granulated sugar can achieve nearly the leavening effect of granulated sugar only with room temperature butter . The sweetness of brown and regular sugar are pretty much equal . In the US and I think almost everywhere else , brown sugar is just granulated sugar with molasses added . Brown sugar adds the molasses flavor , and not surprisingly , some browning . To use non-sugar sweeteners , choose recipes that do n't call for <URL> , they simply wo n't work right . If you want to use a sweetener other than sugar , pick a recipe with a fat that is unsaturated ( liquid at room temperature ) , or melted butter . Also , be sure that your sweetener of choice will maintain its sweetness if baked .
The fridge itself does storing , cooling , and dehydrating . But the last part is rather slow , you do n't see the effect all that much . It is more prominent at low temperatures ( manifests as freezer burn ) . But try leaving unwrapped bacon slices in the regular fridge and you 'll see what I mean . But anyway , it is n't all that interesting what the fridge does , because we only use it for cooling . The interesting things happen in whatever you put into the fridge . The explanation will be somewhat long even without details . The dishes you described have different reasons to need cooling , so I have to deal with them separately . First , egg whites . Stiffly beaten egg whites tend to weep . Cooling them slows the process . You know , less Brownian motion , etc. . Still , overbeating them is never a good idea :) In this case , there are no fat particles responsible for the foam stability ; in fact , the smallest amount of fat can disrupt the building of egg white foam . The second class are the dishes which contain lots of saturated fat . They are made with ( raw ) cream , chocolate , butter , or other such stuff . Saturated fat is an amorphous solid , it has no sharp melting point . It gets very soft before it melts , butter is a good example . So these things are kept at fridge temperatures . If they are left to warm again to room temperature , they become much softer than in the fridge . ( The exception which gets softer than in the fridge , but not all the way to the state before cooling , is ganache . This is because cocoa contains starch , which thickens . See the part about gelling below ) . Third , we have custards . Panna cotta is a good example . They set by way of denaturing egg proteins . This happens at around 85 ° C , on the stove . They are put into the fridge to get colder , because they taste better that way . They do n't get firmer in there , and they wo n't melt if taken out of the fridge . Then we have the hydrocolloids , or gelling agents . While technically starch gels in a different way than gums , I 'll put them together here . The important point is to know if they are thermoreversible . Starch is n't thermoreversible . If you create a blanchmange thick enough to stay on its own out of the mold , it will need to be cooled before it is set completely . But once set , it wo n't go fluid again at high temperatures . Gelatin , on the other hand , is thermoreversible . It needs to be heated before it will dissolve at all , but then it must be cooled to set again . If you make jello and keep it outside of the fridge , it wo n't be much softer than in the fridge . But if you heat it up all the way to 50 ° C , it will melt to liquid again . Then there are the even funnier ones which will harden at high temperatures and soften at low temperatures , etc. . But mainly , you do n't have to keep hydrocolloid gels cooled once they are set . In fact , they do n't even need fridge temperatures to set . Gelatine is perfectly happy to gel at summer room temperatures . But the cooling takes much longer because of the smaller heat difference between liquid and air . So it sets quick in the fridge , but has to be left overnight in order to work at room temp . As for the practical meaning of all this : you can keep most stuff outside without a texture problem . The exception of this rule is anything made with saturated fat : cream , chocolate , pastry dough , buttercream frosting . But it is common knowledge that these should be kept cool anyway .
It does n't compare at all - broiling is the US term for what is called grilling in UK . The heat source is above the food . In the US , a " grill " is used to mean a " gas powered barbeque " , as the Brits would say . The heat source is below the food .
After that long , the beans are almost certainly stale . While it 's true that <URL> , four to ten years is very long time to age coffee and the opinions on aged coffee seem to be mixed at best . I say toss 'em , although you could compost them or even use them for arts and crafts , I would n't recommend them for human consumption . It 's doubtful that anyone would be harmed , seeing as <URL> and that would keep any ' ick ' from developing , it probably would n't be a very enjoyable cup of coffee .
Besides the initial gluten relaxing that mrwienerdog wrote about , another important effect is the absorption of liquid . It takes time for the flour to fully hydrate with the available liquid . Before it does the dough will be more sticky and there will be less gluten available for kneading . Giving the recently incorporated dough a short rest allows the flour to pull in all the liquid it can and become much easier to work with . A similar effect can be seen with pastry doughs . Even though often the goal is to minimize gluten development , a short rest gives the flour time to hydrate and can turn pastry dough from difficult to work and crumbly to soft and smooth .
Short answer ? Not a damn thing . The term is pretty much meaningless in the US ; at best it only means that the product does n't have added colors , artificial flavors or synthetic " stuff " . From the <URL> : What is the meaning of ' natural ' on the label of food ? From a food science perspective , it is difficult to define a food product that is ' natural ' because the food has probably been processed and is no longer the product of the earth . That said , FDA has not developed a definition for use of the term natural or its derivatives . However , the agency has not objected to the use of the term if the food does not contain added color , artificial flavors , or synthetic substances .
Cinnamaldehyde , the compound that gives cinnamon its flavor , is known to cause inflammation in mucous membranes ( http://cameochemicals.noaa.gov/chemical/20036 ) . It 's also mildly water soluble . So , when you made your coffee it was probably diluted enough that it did n't cause a problem . As it sat out , it probably fell out of the solution and settled in the bottom of your cup in a more concentrated form .
There are three major properties of the liquids : Fat based ( oil , melted butter , bacon drippings , and on ) versus water based ( milk , juice , water , and so on ) . Flavor - some liquids , juices and to a lesser extent , milk have a distinct flavor that will effect the bread Acid - Some liquids , like orange juice , are more acid and affect the pH of the dough Not every liquid falls neatly into these exact categories . Milk , for example , is about 87 % water , 4 % fat , and the rest is sugars and proteins . These differences are often insignificant compared to the overall bread recipe . In general , you can substitute fat-based liquids for other fat based ingredients , and water based liquids for other water based liquids . Most breads also have the capacity to carry additional fats and sugars ( called enrichment ) , which at its extreme leads to breads like brioche which are very sweet and fatty . Eggs are a complex ingredient in that the whites are mostly water , with some protein ( albumin ) , and the yolks are about 50 % water and 50 % fat . See related : <URL> Note that in a bread recipe , with so few ingredients and a deceptively complex chemistry , all of the ingredients have a role to play in the chemistry , so the major factors you are looking at are the overall total ratios of fat , sugar , and water to the flour . Accent ingredients would be add ins like carway seeds in rye bread which do n't incorporate into the dough . In regards to your desire for more olive oil flavor , you almost certainly can substitute olive oil for any fats already in the recipe with comparable results . Most dought can even carry a little more fat , although this will inhibit yeast growth and gluten development , so that you will need more kneading and more proofing time . You can also brush the crust with olive oil before or after baking . The very best way to get olive oil flavor into your bread is to dip it in oil when you eat it . This also allows you to get the full flavor of a quality oil , as many nuances would be lost if it was baked into the bread .
end question
start question
Use of sour milk for bread making - how long after the expiration date is it safe ?
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
I 've been making rum-based vanilla extract successfully at home for years . Here are my recommendations . Your basic ingredients are 80 proof rum , sugar and vanilla beans . At the recommended proportions , the rum and sugar are plenty effective preservatives . You can use either light or dark rum , but it should be a good " call " 80 proof rum and not a bargain bottom shelf rum . I most often use Ron Rico . If you use a golden rum , your extract will have a warmer taste suitable for spicy treats such as pumpkin pie or spice cookies . If you use a silver rum , your vanilla will have a purer taste suitable for whipped cream or custard sauces . I get rum that is bottled in glass , because I think plastic imparts an off flavor . Your basic recipe will use a fifth less about a 1/2 cup of rum , four vanilla beans and 1/2 cup of organic sugar . We 'll go through that first , and then talk about variations . Place your vanilla beans on a clean , flat cutting surface . Using a small , sharp knife , cut them first in 1/2 crosswise at the middle . Then take each 1/2 bean and insert the knife tip just 1/2 to an inch below the uncut end and carefully slice lengthwise to the send . Repeat this process gently and carefully on each piece unti each piece has four lengthwise quarters attached at the uncut end . Some recipes will tell you to scrape some or all of the paste out of the beans , but this is not necessary . The simply split beans will infuse the rum just fine . Pour out about a cup of rum from your fifth and set aside . Put your sliced vanilla beans into the rum . Use a funnel to add 1/2 cup of organic sugar . Use the reserved rum you set aside to top the bottle back up . Recap the bottle and give it about 20 shakes to encourage the sugar to dissolve . Set aside in a dark cabinet or pantry . Take it out and give it a few shakes every week or so . Your vanilla will be usable but not fully extracted in about two months . It will continue to strengthen in flavor out to about 6 months of age . Once you are satisfied with your extract , you can decant some and bottle it up in smaller bottles . It 's a very popular gift for bakers . Once you have tried vanilla extract made this way , you will never want to go back to store-bought . The difference is indescribable . You can vary the type of rum you use , silver or gold , and you can vary the sugar . I mostly stick with light organic sugar , because I think the taste is better . I like the combination of dark rum and brown organic sugar very well . You can also increase the sugar up to about 2/3 cup in a fifth bottle , but I would n't go above that . Sugar gives the extract more body and mellows the flavor . Check out Wikipedia to learn more about the various kinds of vanilla beans available . I use the organic ones from my food coop , but different kinds can be ordered online or found at specialty food stores . A number of cooking blogs have instructions on making extracts or tinctures of other spices . There is no reason not to create combination flavors .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
I do n't think anything will be wrong with that milk . If it 's fresh milk , which I doubt , you should consume it in less than three days . If it 's pasteurized milk , which is much more likely , it 'll be unaffected . Signs of spoilage are a sour smell and sour taste . You should make a habit of always smelling your milk ( food ) before drinking ( eating ) it . If it does n't smell like you 'd expect , taste it . If it does n't taste like you 'd expect , ditch it . Milk is cultivated with lactobacillus , a bacteria that 's beneficial for us . So , even though milk may taste sour , it does n't mean that it 's undrinkable . In Holland , there 's sour-milk ( karnemelk ) , that some people consume ( I do n't like it , myself ) . Under the right circumstances , milk will turn into yogurt , thanks to the lactobacillus ... At any rate , if in doubt , throw it out .
Most of the <URL> . So unopened , you should have no problem storing at room temp . Once you open the bottle , microorganism 's can get in . With a sugary liquid like Apple juice , wild yeasts will find a happy home , and ferment up a bubbly alcoholic apple beverage for you . This can take a week or two to happen , and the result is usually tasty rather than deadly . Sometimes you 'll end up with vinegar rather than an alcoholic ferment . There 's some small chance of picking up a nasty microbe in your apple juice over a three day period , but it was never enough to stop people from drinking unrefrigerated cider in the days before Pasteurization or refrigeration .
Throw it out . Tofu has a very short life . Once opened it can last up to 5 days in the refrigerator , but only if you store it submerged in water , and change it daily . See also : <URL>
I recently asked this question to my dietitian friend at work , and she advised fruit/herbs last about 3 to 5 days in water in the fridge before becoming soft and mushy . If your mint leaf still looks nice and pretty , you are most likely OK . She also recommended a website to me : www.infusedwaters.com/faq for recipes and advise .
Adding milk works because <URL> . It might even work better , as it also contains sugar ( lactose ) which will be eaten by your starter 's yeasts and bacteria . But it also contains other stuff , such as fats . And fats , after some time , get rancid . You probably wo n't want that taste in bread or pancakes . I would stick to water ( which quite probably you 'll find cheaper than milk ) . Do n't worry about rotten milk : your starter is already rotten . And it 's a hostile environment for most microbes . It 's very very improbable new microbes would survive there . But if they do , they 'll be quite similar to the already existing ones .
Yes , you can definitely use UHT milk in bread . UHT is not usable for some applications , because its proteins have been changed by the heat . But in bread , you do n't need the proteins from the milk . Bread recipes include milk to make the dough richer , so it is mostly the fat content that matters . Using UHT wo n't change anything in the dough structure . I even think that the usual unpleasant taste wo n't be noticeable , but I am not so sure about that . Still , it gets diluted a lot in dough , so if you can drink UHT as-is , you should n't have a problem with the bread taste .
@tcb , I have successfully used sona masoori rice for dosa batter . try this method : Preheat oven to 200 degree F . Then turn off the oven . Then put your batter-pot in the oven on a tray.Check after 5-6 hours . If temp are really low outside , and you think it is still not fermenting , again turn on oven for a couple of minutes and turn off . Batter should be ready in 9-10 hours .
Use only good beef , salt and pepper . The beef should be a good fatty cut , with a ratio of 80 % meat , 20 % fat . Chuck is ideal . Any good butcher should grind it to order for you . You need to keep the ground meat as cold as possible , to prevent the fat melting out of it before you cook it . Do not salt the beef prior to shaping , just use pepper . Shape your burgers , then put them in the fridge for a couple of hours . Generously salt the outside of the burgers about 1 hour before cooking . Get a good pan ( preferably a cast iron griddle ) really , really , really hot . Brush one side of the burger with vegetable oil , then slap it on the grill . DO NOT PRESS IT WITH THE SPATULA , EVER . You squeeze out all the juice . Turn the burger and cook the other side . Timing will depend on how you like your burger . A good way of testing doneness is to insert a thin metal skewer into the centre of the burger from one side ( not the top ) , leave it for a few seconds , then take it out and touch it carefully to your lip . If it 's hot , it 's just about done . Or if you have a good digital thermometer , use that .
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
You did n't say where your product was packaged , but according to the USDA , " Use by " dates refer to best quality , and are not safety dates . This is especially true when foods are handled well ... in your case , factory sealed . Additionally , I ca n't see how the proteins would go anywhere . Given the reportedly good flavor ( not an indication of safety , but simply of good taste ) , I would use it .
The way I do it is put 1-2 tbsp of oil in my pot , add 1/3 cup or so of corn , cover , and heat on medium until it starts popping , then turn down a bit and shake the pot occasionally until it is all popped . So , not oil free , but not a whole lot of oil either .
So long as we are discussing this topic . The Center for Disease Control has a specific answer for <URL> and their answer is NO . However , According to <URL> pasteurization causes a breakdown in milk-caesin protein which after uptake through Peyer 's patch can promote allergic sensitivity . There are other controversial claims that the higher temperatures required for milk pasteurization and boiling breaks down some of the ingredients with negative effects . There is a <URL> that counters the FDA facts with other scientific papers . However , it 's been noted that their paper may not be heavily grounded in rigorous scientific data . There is a more idepth look in <URL> to <URL> seems to cover the spectrum of myths based on scientific evidence and critiques . Some of the points discussed are : Raw Milk is not a high-risk food ( in today 's age ) . Raw Milk does have protective properties to allergies and Asthma . also noted in <URL> The notion of " the loss of nutrients due to pasteurization is insignificant " is based on an antiquated nutritional paradigm . Pasteurization and temperature does reorganize some of the milk proteins , but the effects of that is unknown . You may wish to watch the presentation , the gist of the discussion start at about 8 minutes in . In the end , if you believe pasteurization has negative nutritional effects , then boiling raw milk will , too ( minus the safety of pasteurized milk ) .
Yes , a well cultured sour dough is actually sour . The bacteria in the culture , lactobacilli , emit lactic acid as a waste product of their metabolism , making the dough acidic and sour .
The milk sugars will add a sweetness to the dish . Also , after the fish comes out , the milk can be reduced/thickened to make a bechemel sauce .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
end question
start question
Is there a method for desalinating bacon ?
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
Growing up , my mother always used to bake them . They do turn out a bit drier than if you deep-fried them , but not overmuch . They cook for about 15-20 minutes at 400 ° F ( ~ 200 ° C ) , or until golden and crispy on the outside . Alternately , you can pan-fry them , as other answers have suggested . Or you can split the difference and oven fry them . If you 're unfamiliar , Google can acquaint you with the process . Here 's a good NPR article to get you started : <URL>
One resource I 'm impressed with is <URL> , which is an " online cooking school " with truly excellent video content . ( Disclosure : I 'm an affiliate , though I have n't earned anything from it - I only signed up because I think it is great , I do n't refer anything just to hope to make a buck ) . That link will give you a 14 day free trial . The thing I like is that it is broken down into really small , highly detailed sections , and the video is HD and shot extremely close up on the hands and pots so you can really see what is happening .
If you 're drinking the espresso shot on its own , you could drink it straight from the shot glass - or , better yet , buy an <URL> , which should be about the same height as your shot glass . ( A <URL> will help keep it warm . ) If you 're pulling espresso shots to be used in other espresso-based drinks ( i.e. , if you 're adding some sort of milk or water to it ) , you could try an <URL> , which basically looks like the sort of small pitchers you 'd use to serve cream ; they 're normally about 3 oz , small enough that it would probably fit under your espresso machine . You could brew the espresso into the pitcher , then pour into your mug ; the spout/lip of the pitcher should help preserve the crema once you figure out what the optimum pouring speed is . It should work similarly to pouring steamed milk : pour too fast , and the foam and milk come tumbling out all at once and you ruin the foam , too slow and the foam gets stuck in the pitcher . But if you pour just right , you should be able to pour most of the liquid first , and wind up with just enough liquid left to slide out the foam so it lands on top of your drink .
Cast iron is great for bacon , but not a grill pan . The bacon really needs to be floating on its own grease for nice even heating . The best bacon is cooked slowly . Preheat the pan so it is an evenly heated cooking surface , then slide you bacon on to the hot pan . By slide , I mean move it around on the pan before you drop it so the pan gets a coat of grease before dropping the bacon and getting it stuck on the hot pan . Let it cook at medium low heat , it will take longer but you 'll get less splatter , the bacon wo n't burn , and it wo n't dry out either , you also have a larger window of opportunity to pick up the bacon while it 's " just right " whatever that is for you .
There 's a difference between the title ( is a sausiccon a type of salami ) , and the body ( is there a difference ) . The first is a question of classification , and no , a saucisson is type of cured sausage , but you 'd want " saucisson sec " ( dry sausage ) for a dried , cured sausage with good storage characteristics like salami . So the relation is the other way around -- a salami is a type of saucisson . " Differences " when you 're dealing with general classifications such as this tend to be a question of if there are items that might fit into one category , but not the other . It 's pretty obvious that salami is a narrower term than sausiccon , but I 'm not sure if salami and sausiccon sec are just different names for the same concept , or if there might be items in one class that would n't fall into the other . update : would <URL> be considered a saucisson sec ? It 's only semi-dried , so I would n't classify it as a salami due to storage characteristics .
Also known as a " bird 's beak " , it 's used for <URL> root vegetables ( turning them into little footballs ) and making fancy , delicate cuts when carving garnishes from fruit or vegetables . More practically , the curved blade is great for peeling round vegetables and fruit . It 's a complete pain in the butt to sharpen without a belt grinder ( or pro sharpening service with same ) , but gosh , it looks neat . Congrats on the fun present !
<URL> I found some baking times for specific sized cakes . For me , I just use the toothpick method . If it 's a spongecake , you can check by pressing down on it and if it " bounces " back it 's done .
It sounds like you cooked it too long , and additionally , the recipe may just be bad . If you managed to cook away all the liquid and end up with just wine-infused bacon , there was probably a point before then with a reasonable amount of liquid . Sometimes what people are going for with wine reduction sauces is really to have a lot of the wine flavor concentrated into some minced ingredients , with enough thickened liquid to hold it together a bit . If you crumble the bacon finely enough , and do n't reduce away all the liquid , you might find you like it like that . But it sounds like you 're looking for more of a liquid sauce , and at the point when enough liquid remained , it was too thin . I 'd might suggest just finding a more detailed , trustworthy recipe for a wine reduction sauce , and just adding in bacon ( and maybe taking out some other ingredients ) . Short of that , if I were going to try to do this without many extra ingredients , I 'd : Save the fat that cooks out of the bacon . Crumble the bacon very finely . Keep plenty of liquid when reducing . Whisk together equal parts bacon fat and flour and cook until the flour turns a bit golden . ( Basically , make roux with bacon fat . ) Whisk the sauce into the roux and cook for a bit longer . This is again a very fuzzy recipe . With the amount of fat bacon releases , you can definitly make more than enough roux to thicken plenty of sauce - depending on how much you reduce the wine and how thick you want the sauce , I 'm guessing you 'd only need a tablespoon or two of roux . If you feel you 've lost too much of the bacon flavor , see SAJ14SAJ 's answer for how to incorporate more of the fat without the sauce separating . ( In general , you have to be careful with vague recipes like the one you found - they 'll tend to assume you know some things , so if you ca n't fill in the gaps yourself , it may be best to find a more specific one ! And sometimes they 're just bad recipes . That one tells you to fry bacon in olive oil , which is really suspicious - you do n't need extra oil to fry bacon . )
There are varieties of carrots that have been bred for extra sugar , but you wo n't find them in your typical grocery store . Most of the grocery store carrots have been bred for color , shape , production and storage . In grocery stores that sell loose carrots , you can sometimes find ' winter carrots ' . They 're quite large ( nearly 2 " / 5cm across ) . These are carrots that have been left in the ground over the winter -- they are typically much sweeter than carrots that are taken out of the ground in warmer weather . I have seen larger carrots at the latin markets and restaurant supply stores near me , but I 've never done side-by-side taste tests to confirm if these are sweeter than standard grocery store carrots . There are also seed companies ( eg , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) who sell varieties bred specifically for their sugar content , much like what 's being done with corn . If you grow your own , you can seek these out , or you can check to see if any of the farmer 's markets near you carry them . Much like heirloom tomatoes , they 're often a bit stranger in color and shape than what you get in the grocery stores -- they might be short and stubby , or have a dramatic taper that is n't useful to make ' baby carrots ' )
There is a legal difference : according to Italian law , pasta ( which includes spaghetti ) is made only with durum wheat . Other countries also accept soft wheat . The difference is in the amount of protein ( mostly gluten ) : durum wheat has more , which in turn gives the pasta a somewhat snappier bite . Also , the cooked pasta stays eatable ( as in , non-mushy ) for a longer time . Moreover , some Italian pastas are extruded through traditional bronze dies that leave a slightly rougher surface that makes for better sauce adhesion . Avoid by all means all stupid Italian pastas made for tourists . Avoid stupid novelty shapes and ( most ) colored pastas . Some good brands with global distribution that will not let you down : Barilla , Agnesi , Garofalo , De Cecco ( thanks for the tip ) .
The recipes that I have seen did n't have much sugar and it is universally in the dressing . The dressings are mayonnaise based and a small amount of sugar gives them another facet to their flavor . This dressing reminds me of a simple coleslaw dressing which will include the mayo and sugar as well as buttermilk and lemon . Because the sugar is in the dressing it will apply to all the layers equally so there is no particular layer that should be sweetened more than the others . Keep in mind that this salad is southern cuisine which tends to value flavor over nutrition . Sometimes to a fault , of course . The sugar serves no mechanical purpose . It will eventually pull some the liquid out of the vegetables but , as there is so little and the dressing is not mixed in , the effect would be negligible . If you prefer the salad to be less sweet and are not worried about authenticity feel free to leave the sugar out . Alternatively if you would like to throw authenticity to the wind altogether you could leave in the sugar and add buttermilk and lemon juice to the dressing and give the salad more of a coleslaw-like zing .
you might try forcing whatever it is into the cherries . This can be done under pressure , which you might be <URL> using a <URL> or maybe <URL> , or simply by vacuum packing the cherries with the soaking liquid . once vacuum packed you might be able to put in a pressure cooker to increase the pressure , but I 'm not sure what the heat would do to the cherries . EDIT : having read the recipe , I 'm not sure any of this would work .
Depends on how fine you have shaved the rind/zest , you can consider candying it ( boil it in syrup till it become very transparent ) or dip it in chocolate after candying it . if it is too fine , then add it into your next chocolate recipe to get orange-flavoured chocolate ...
Yes , there is no real difference . Be aware that if you one from the hardware store , it should be one where the flame does not fluctuate when you tilt the torch . This usually happens with the very cheap ones . This becomes a big problem when you try to uniformly brown something . Aside from that and maybe " esthetically " I see no reason not to use one from the hardware store .
Just look out for artificial flavorings ; a lot of bacon comes with artificial " hickory " or " maple " flavors , which are disgusting and often taste like chemicals . The better bacon wo n't include such things . Nitrate-free bacon is important if you 're sensitive to nitrates . The fat content is more of a matter of taste than a hard-and-fast rule ; personally , I like a fair amount of fat because I like to cook other things in the rendered fat ! Same for the thickness . If you like very crispy bacon , you may want your bacon slightly thinner than the " thick-cut " styles that command a price premium .
Please do not use a cooking wine . Those are awful . Pick a juice , any juice . I 'd say cranberry . You probably do n't want anything too sweet .
Well , I see no reason this should n't work . Although I would change the process order slightly . If you think about it you 're basically suggesting making smoked bacon and then confiting it . Brine the meat , adding moisture to the meat . ( Make bacon ) Smoke the Bacon ( Smoked Bacon ) Confit it ... Smoking wise I would advise a cold smoke as it will help stop the meat drying out before the confiting . When doing the confit part I would highly recommend a really low fat/oil temperature , around 110c again to help stop the meat drying out and getting tough . Low and slow will save your meat . When I say make bacon I do n't mean brine it for 2 days but if you brine it for 4-8 hours you 'll help start the osmosis without actually creating full on salted bacon . It might taste great , but I see no reason why it would n't taste good . Maybe not the " Ultimate Pork Chop " ...
Dilute heavily by using a very small portion of peppers per dish Allow cooking time for the pepper flavor to permeate the dish before adding more . It 's not like black pepper where the taste spreads instantly . Remove the seeds and membranes holding them , as this reduces spiciness considerably Cut peppers very finely or puree so there are n't any large pieces to deliver a shocker in the final dish Wear gloves when handling the peppers If you do n't use gloves , wash your hands well before touching your eyes , mouth , or other " sensitive regions . " AND FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS GOOD AND HOLY , DO NOT FRY OR SAUTE THE PEPPERS . No , seriously . The last one is a mistake you only make once , and should be on a warning label with all store-bought chilis . The capsaicin somehow becomes volatile when heated enough , and the result is like filling your entire domicile with pepper spray . I am ashamed to say that the last two cautions are drawn purely from personal experience . It 's not the kind of " hot date " you want to share with an ( un ) lucky person , believe me .
end question
start question
Is it safe to eat freshwater fish raw ?
You should never eat freshwater fish in raw preparations . Freshwater fish are far more likely to have nasty parasites such as the <URL> , that can only be killed by cooking . There is a slew of other <URL> that can be harmful if not killed . Unless you want to end up on an episode of <URL> , stay away .
Raw eggs are actually a lot safer than said to be believed , especially in recipes such as this one . Rocky <URL> all the time ! haha So please feel free to make the mousse and eat it too ! Although cooking them almost always kills bacteria if they reach 150 degrees Fahrenheit . The most dangerous part about using eggs is something that many of us were taught to do at a young age , separating the yolk . Most people separate the yolk by cracking the egg and pouring it back and forth between the two egg shell halves . This is the easiest way to spread salmonella because it can hide on the egg shell or in the pores inside the egg . One thing to never do is wash an egg . They are washed after they are laid and a new barrier is put on by the egg company , some sort of hardened mineral I think . Washing the egg will make your situation worse by destroying this new man made barrier . For the last part of your question I suggest not feeding your baby and thing that has a small percent chance to have any bacteria , such as mousse , because their immune system is still developing . I would also choose not to feed your baby anything high in sugar , thats what Grandma is for later in life . The baby 's tastes are forming now and veggies are the way to go with that . Need to teach them to like good for them foods . They like sweet stuff when they are born so they do n't need to learn how to like those . Hope I helped !
Sterno is gelled denatured alcohol . It is denatured alcohol ( a combination of methanol and ethanol ) so that you ca n't , safely , drink it , but it is still mostly alcohol , which will dissolve in water and clean up just fine . While I would n't dump a lot of it down the sink , you should have no problem with cleanup . And while Sterno is n't safe to drink , it wo n't be a problem if you touch it in cleaning up . I just double checked the Sterno site and they confirm water cleanup and say , additionally , that it is biodegradable .
Sprouted onions are perfectly safe to eat . If far advanced the texture may not be ideal ; yours does not sound very far advanced at all ( not even green . ) Considering you can eat green onions , there 's nothing to fear from onion sprouts .
It 's an old source ( 1922 ) , but divides the rhubarb into " leaf stalks " , " prominent veins , " and " leaves . " It states that the leaf stalks are the only edible portion . ( 1 ) In addition , oxalates are in all parts of the plant . But only specifically stated to be in lower quantities in the stalk ( 2 ) . In fact , people susceptible to kidney stones can be advised to avoid even rhubarb stalks ( 4 ) . Cooking the leaves can actually INCREASE the toxicity . ( 3 ) Logic would dictate that the veins , being the transition point from stalks to leaves would have a value in between the values in the stalks and leaves . Thus safety indicates one should avoid eating them . Sources : 1 : <URL> 2 : <URL> 3 : <URL> 4 : <URL>
Yes it is completely safe . Microwaves do not linger in food . The microwaves stop as soon as your microwave stops . A microwave is just an electromagnetic wave similar to a radio wave , but at a higher frequency . It works by exciting molecules , particularly water , in the food and giving those molecules some of its energy as heat . Microwaves do not alter the structure or composition of molecules or atoms directly , which is what happens with <URL> ( gamma rays , x-rays , and UV-rays ) . You could cook your food with gamma rays , but you would ionize many of the particles making them radioactive .
I probably would not recommend eating a box of baking soda and chasing that with shots of vinegar . But aside from that silliness , I ca n't think of a single thing that is actual " food " that is unsafe mixed with another actual " food " , assuming reasonable quantities . Certainly anything with alcohol can be dangerous in huge quantities , as can a lot of other ingredients . Allergies or food sensitivities can make certain ingredients dangerous to certain people . But mixing ingredients to which the individual has no special sensitivity and in normal quantities ? No , I do n't think you are risking anything by doing so other than unpleasant food .
There are <URL> on the market that come with a lot of solids , and it 's perfectly normal for those to have all kinds of chunky weirdness if they 've sat for a little while . Wine vinegar has a wide range of normal behaviour : it can get <URL> * or <URL> , and that 's normal . Even filtered vinegar can develop cloudiness and still be perfectly safe . If your distilled vinegar gets cloudy , I 'd worry . That should n't happen . Still , foreign bacteria do NOT grow well in vinegar . If your distilled vinegar is growing something , you probably know why . <URL> , unless you 're storing it outside on your deck , or something . If you brew your own , your mileage may vary . * This is often a result of leaving live bacteria ( <URL> ) in the vinegar . <URL> , like live yoghurt cultures . There is n't much data either way , but it 's certainly not harmful .
The spark was a voltage jumping over a gap somewhere . This may occur again , but so long as the magnetron survives , you should be okay . The problem with sparks is they can leave a carbon trail deep inside which is conductive and may actually make the next spark occur at a slightly lower voltage . If this happens enough , you will eventually ( or shortly ) damage the unit and make it unusable . I actually work as a product safety consultant and I can say , so long as you have an approved product ( CSA , UL , ETL , or TUV ) this sort of fault was actually tested . You should be a safe enough and not start a fire .
Of course if an item is spoiled this means you should throw out anything that contains the spoiled item . However , based on your description , I have an alternative hypothesis . Brown discoloration in fruit does not mean the fruit is spoiled . Discoloration can be normal , especially if there was no unusual smells or changes in texture in the lemon . You said the lemon still appeared fresh on the outside . The more likely scenario is that the bitterness is from the lemon rind itself . The white pith underneath the outer bright yellow layer of the lemon rind is very bitter . If you go too deep while zesting a lemon your dish can easily be ruined by nasty bitterness . Only scrape the outer yellow surface when zesting a lemon . This can be quite challenging and takes some practice before you start zesting like an expert . Without a further description of the lemon , it is impossible to say whether it is spoiled or not ( it very well could be ) , but even if it was I doubt the spoiled lemon is causing bitterness ( it would probably cause a different but equally undesirable flavor ) .
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
It is perfectly safe to eat ( when produced , transported , and so on under sanitary conditions , just like any other edible meat ) . In some cultures it is considered a delicacy ; in others , it is not considered appropriate to eat , but those issues of cultural norms , not of safety . The news is because it is a violation of trust ( truth in labeling ) in a cultural background where horses are not normally eaten . Personally , I might wonder what other shortcuts the purveyor had taken if they are lying about content ...
Sure it 's safe . You are about to char the outside at very high temperatures , nothing 's going to survive that , so cleaning it is more about flavor than safety . I would n't just wipe it though , clean it with water or you might get a dirtier steak flavor than you 'd like .
You will be fine . As the chicken softens , and with a bit of a stir , it will all get cooked . the steam and conductive heat will cook and keep safe even the minuscule portion above the water line .
Yes , those spots are normal , they form as the nattou ages . They are amino acid crystals , and they are perfectly safe . Here 's a picture . They 're a bit crunchy , which you may or may not like . If you do n't like the dots , get young nattou and consume it before the crystals form . If you do like them , get more mature nattou . With younger nattou , you should be able to store it opened in the fridge for a few days before the crystals start to form . As you have experienced though , once they start , they grow quickly .
From your description , if it is n't tripe , then it is probably <URL> . This is often used in soup an other dishes and has a neutral flavor . The texture can be from soft to slightly crunchy depending on the length of cooking .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
If you want to cure your fish ( basically a brine without moisture ) it is dependent on the thickness of the meat mostly . If it 's as thin as 1/4 " , it will take approximately 1-2 hours . If it 's more around 1 " thick , it could need 3-8 hours . If you use a dry-cure method you do n't have to worry about having too much salt because once you 're done , you just wipe it off . If done incorrectly ( ie . not enough time ) , you should notice a difference in the colour between the edge and the interior . Typically , the colour becomes more pale . The main purpose of the salt is to dehydrate the meat , not necessarily drying . If you use a brine , it obviously wo n't become dry .
end question
start question
Breaking down a turkey for storage - brine before or after freezing ?
According to Handbook of Food Science , Technology , and Engineering , Volume 3 , edited by Yiu H. Hui , the freezing of any meats , ( particularly red meats ) , causes cell walls to rupture the rate of rupture is inversely proportionate to the rate freezing Since household-grade freezers are of the slower sort , owing to an effort toward energy efficiency , when we at home freeze meats we are doing about as much damage as possible to the structural integrity of the meat at its most fundamental level , to wit , its cell walls . The reason this is relevant to the question [ of brining before or after freezing ] is as follows . To brine meat is to infuse it with water or , as the wiki on Brining states <URL> , ... makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , ... Since water , unique among all molecules , is the only substance which actually expands when frozen rather than contracts , the absorption of additional water into the individual cells of the meat is now guaranteed to facilitate further rupturing of the cell walls , that is , if brining is performed prior to freezing . Certainly therefore it is counterproductive to attempt to brine meat before freezing it , at least in the home setting . The greater quantity of ruptured cell walls , caused by the introduction into the cells of more water prior to freezing , ensures that the meat once thawed and undergoing preparation will have that many fewer cell walls in tact , that is , cell walls by which to keep the moisture in the cell . The result will be a product less moist than one would have obtained had brining not been performed . <URL> we find a perfectly thorough blog entry on the brining of turkey where , it must be said , we find that the author does not present a brine-to-freeze option . The author does however confirm that " 11 % sodium " on the label represents a turkey brined by the manufacturer , ( which we 'll hope to find refrigerated by our grocer , not frozen ) . The above graphic , which applies only tangentially to the question at hand , was obtained from that blog entry . Its relevance however speaks for itself .
Yes , as long as it has n't been opened . ' Best Before ' dates refer to quality , not safety , and reflect the date at which the manufacturers believe that it is not up to normal quality standards . Have a taste , and if you think it 's OK , go ahead .
That 's fine . A lot of people actually do that on purpose , it 's referred to as " soaking " . It will shave a bit off the cooking time and wo n't negatively affect the rice at all . Give it a stir before you start cooking . You can drain and rinse it too if you want , that will give you very separate , distinct grains . Use about 1/4 less water for cooking if you do it that way , because the rice will have soaked up some water .
Salt is a good means to control/suppress flames and flareups without having a cooling effect on the coals .
According to Handbook of Food Science , Technology , and Engineering , Volume 3 , edited by Yiu H. Hui , the freezing of any meats , ( particularly red meats ) , causes cell walls to rupture the rate of rupture is inversely proportionate to the rate freezing Since household-grade freezers are of the slower sort , owing to an effort toward energy efficiency , when we at home freeze meats we are doing about as much damage as possible to the structural integrity of the meat at its most fundamental level , to wit , its cell walls . The reason this is relevant to the question [ of brining before or after freezing ] is as follows . To brine meat is to infuse it with water or , as the wiki on Brining states <URL> , ... makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , ... Since water , unique among all molecules , is the only substance which actually expands when frozen rather than contracts , the absorption of additional water into the individual cells of the meat is now guaranteed to facilitate further rupturing of the cell walls , that is , if brining is performed prior to freezing . Certainly therefore it is counterproductive to attempt to brine meat before freezing it , at least in the home setting . The greater quantity of ruptured cell walls , caused by the introduction into the cells of more water prior to freezing , ensures that the meat once thawed and undergoing preparation will have that many fewer cell walls in tact , that is , cell walls by which to keep the moisture in the cell . The result will be a product less moist than one would have obtained had brining not been performed . <URL> we find a perfectly thorough blog entry on the brining of turkey where , it must be said , we find that the author does not present a brine-to-freeze option . The author does however confirm that " 11 % sodium " on the label represents a turkey brined by the manufacturer , ( which we 'll hope to find refrigerated by our grocer , not frozen ) . The above graphic , which applies only tangentially to the question at hand , was obtained from that blog entry . Its relevance however speaks for itself .
Yes , it changes the texture . If you want it light , you need to use it quickly , as the bubbles will disappate over time .
To prevent the vegetable from going ' off ' in the freezer . <URL> : Blanching is the scalding of vegetables in boiling water or steam . Blanching slows or stops the action of enzymes . Up until harvest time , enzymes cause vegetables to grow and mature . If vegetables are not blanched , or blanching is not long enough , the enzymes continue to be active during frozen storage causing off-colours , off-flavours and toughening . Blanching time is crucial and varies with the vegetable and size of the pieces to be frozen . Under-blanching speeds up the activity of enzymes and is worse than no blanching . Over-blanching causes loss of flavour , colour , vitamins and minerals .
When I freeze tomatoes , the main thing I worry about is getting the skin off . To do this , score the bottom with an X , then blanch . After cooling in ice water , pull the skin off . I have n't ever worried about the details you mention , or about cutting them up , and I have had great success .
Just keep it dry . I buy 100 sheets packs and store them in a zip-loc type bag in the cupboard for over a year
In either case store the cheese in the liquid it came in , transferring it to a clean container and covering well . Feta lasts reasonably well , but mozzarella only keeps well for a couple of days .
Sure it 's safe . You are about to char the outside at very high temperatures , nothing 's going to survive that , so cleaning it is more about flavor than safety . I would n't just wipe it though , clean it with water or you might get a dirtier steak flavor than you 'd like .
It depends on what you plan to use them for . They wo n't ever be crisp again after freezing , but if you 're cooking them anyway , they will be fine . I do this all the time with leftover peppers . You should certainly remove stems and seeds and cut them into whatever size you will need for cooking .
My recommendation would be to shell and wash the beans , blanch for 3-4 minutes then quickly plunge in an ice bath , drain and pat dry , and seal in a freezer bag ( squeezing out as much excess air as possible ) . I have done this with fresh green beans by cutting into 1-inch pieces and they lasted 3 months in the freezer with no problem . I realize cranberry beans are quite different , but I think the same method would apply and work well . I would think the cranberry beans would be less temperamental than regular green beans . As an aside , I have similar plans and this is how I am going to try to store them long-term .
Essentially , food pathogens can not grow below 4.0 pH and vinegar is significantly more acidic that that . If you go <URL> and scroll down a bit , there is a good , succinct explanation . They use brines of 38 and 44 percent vinegar " for taste and safety " . With this basic information , it would be easy to create brines that are safe and suite your taste . You really do n't need salt , sugar , spices or herbs for safety for vinegar pickles ( though you do need salt for lacto-fermented pickles ) . The acidity alone will do it . Of course , you probably want your pickles to taste good , so those other ingredients will be necessary . I should also add , that the site I linked to adds a cook step . This makes the pickles safe immediately after cooking . Without a cook step , the pickles will become safe over time , as the vinegar permeates the product , but may not be safe immediately . It seems that the addition of a low temperature cook step is an interesting innovation that improves safety and the ability to maintain a crunchy product .
Saltpeter is potassium nitrate , which does not directly cure meats . Bacteria convert nitrate into nitrite , which is the real preservative . Saltpeter can be replaced by a smaller amount of nitrite to get the same curing effect ( most commercial cured meats do this ) , though a prolonged cure that converts nitrate into nitrite can develop more flavor . Tender Quick is not a direct substitute because it contains mostly salt . I 've heard that you can replace the salt in your recipe with Tender Quick , and drop the saltpeter , and have a success . You would have better luck finding a recipe that was meant to use Tender Quick , though . It is definitely possible to buy ( food-grade ! ) saltpeter . I would check online , or at specialty stores . It 's a little more difficult than picking it up at your local grocery store , of course . ( Chemistry lesson , courtesy of McGee : nitrate ( NO3 ) is converted to nitrite ( NO2 ) , which then reacts to form nitric oxide ( NO ) , which bonds to myoglobin in the meat , which turns it pink and prevents oxidation . Nitric oxide is also present in smoke , which gives that " pink ring " around the outside of smoked meats . )
Either would be safe . You will get better quality by freezing them uncooked . They should not get soggy due to the freezing , as neither the meat filling , nor the wrappers , are particularly subject to ice crystal damage . Gyoza are very small , so you should not need to thaw them : just begin the steaming phase right out of the freezer , and they will thaw while cooking . If you do wish to thaw them , do it in the refrigerator and they will be perfectly safe , despite the raw filling . You are correct that if you freeze them after cooking , you will loose the crispy bottoms -- this would be true if you save them as left overs in the refrigerator as well .
Butter and margarine freeze perfectly . I generally stock up during sales and thaw it as needed . You just have to make sure it 's wrapped tightly in the foil , to prevent oxidation . It 'll keep at least 6 months , probably more if you do n't have a self-defrosting freezer . Thawing butter does take quite a while , however . I usually give a package a few days to thaw fully . If you need butter in a hurry , you can always put it in a Ziploc bag and fast thaw it a bowl under running running water . Or , just soften it in the microwave .
Freezing is bad for things which have a special structure and lots of water . Everything else should be OK with freezing . The prime example of a thing which behaves badly when frozen is a fruit . It consists mostly of water , but is firm instead of liquid because the water is contained within a cellulose structure created by the cell walls of the fruit . When you freeze it , the water turns to sharp ice crystals , which also expand in volume ( water is one of the few liquids which does that upon freezing ) , and they hurt the cell walls . When you defrost the fruit , it turns terribly soft , and all the juice runs out . It is practically like maceration without the sugar . You can use the fruit for cooking , e.g. for a jelly , but it is not the same thing as a fresh fruit . Another example which is very structure dependent is whipped egg white . It is a fragile foam , and the formation of ice crystals is also very damaging for it . Whipped cream is similar - you can freeze it ( and get ice cream ) , but it melts to a liquid , not a foam . On the other hand , foods which have a specific structure but not much water are OK with freezing . Butter is not pure fat , it is an emulsion of 17 % water in 83 % fat . Emulsions tend to have very fragile structures ( do n't freeze mayonnaise ) , but butter is OK , because there is n't much water so the formation of crystals does n't disrupt the structure . Another exception which is OK to freeze is dough . A dough being practically a mesh of gluten , it does n't get really hurt by the crystals . There are a few ingredients which develop an off taste when frozen . For example , do n't freeze anything carbonated , it tastes terrible afterwards . You should also consider the problem of freezer burn . It happens when the moisture of the frozen product sublimates in the dry freezer air . To prevent it , you have to seal the food airtight . You are therefore limited by the kind of food you can seal . If you have a food which would make a mess in a home vacuum sealer , like a wet stew , you could try freezing it for a night , so it is hard but does not have freezer burn yet , and then sealing the frozen chunk and returning it to the freezer . Some ingredients will prevent the food from freezing into a solid block . Notable examples are salt , alcohol and propylene glycol ( which is used as a solvent in food coloring and baking aromas ) . This should n't be a food safety problem , because first , bacteria growth is inhibited by low temperatures , and second , if you have these things in concentration high enough to completely prevent freezing at -18 ° C , then they will kill the bacteria by themselves . But it can cause some logistic problems if the food stays too soft . As you see , these general guidelines have exceptions , or at least require some knowledge of what food is built like ( but frankly , I would have predicted that yeast dough freezes badly if I did n't know from experience that it works well ) . So you should definitely try to remember it on a per-case basis for the most common things you intend to freeze . A very convenient guideline is to think if you can buy a premade equivalent frozen at the supermarket . If they sell it , it will probably turn out OK when frozen at home ( sometimes with differences , like frozen fruit ) . If they do n't have the food ( or its major ingredients ) , there is probably a reason for that .
Yes , you absolutely can eat turkey eggs . They are somewhat like duck eggs in that they are richer and creamier in taste . However , turkeys do n't lay nearly as many eggs as chickens - perhaps 100 a year as opposed to a hen 's 300 , so do n't expect to enjoy them too often .
Some of the volatile flavors will be diminished , but I 've managed to make fairly good drinks with the help of mint that I kept frozen . In my experience , freezer burn starts to become visible after two or three months , and starts to harm flavor probably around 4-6 months . I 'm not sure preparing the drink will work really well , but if you just defrost the drink in the refrigerator , it probably wo n't be terrible . Active thawing with heat will probably cause some harm . Many infusions and teas become a bit cloudy and lose color after bottling or freezing , which is why most bottled teas use an enzyme ( not usually a listed ingredient ) designed to mitigate that .
end question
start question
How long do you let a steak from the fridge come up to temperature , and when do you salt it ?
In <URL> , Lorenzo notes that steaks may end up raw in the center if you only leave 'em out for 10-15 minutes to come up to temperature . I recommend 30 mins , but it will probably vary on what room temperature actually is for you . From Weber 's Way To Grill , which recommends salting right when you take them out of the fridge , here 's Mr. Purviance 's take on why you should consider salting early : It 's true that salt draws moisture toward itself , but over the course of 20 to 30 minutes that 's a good thing , because the salt begins to dissolve into that little bit of moisture . When the steak hits the hot grate ... [ you ] create a delicious crust . Any moisture you might lose is well worth the flavor of that crust .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
Cook 's Illustrated recommends storing lemons in the fridge in a tightly sealed ziptop bag with the excess air removed . I would imagine that the same applies to limes . As I understand it , the idea is to prevent air circulation in order to reduce the rate of dehydration . <URL>
You probably misread the recipe . It 's suggested that dry beans soak overnight so that they cook in a reasonable amount of time the next day ( unless you use a pressure cooker . ) There is no need to soak barley , pearled or not . It 's my guess that you mistook the bean soaking for barley in the recipe . That , or it 's a typo .
Here 's a website that goes into it and includes a picture of the gizmo to which you refer : <URL> " This little single serving device is meant to fit over a cup , hold about two tablespoons worth of coffee , and the required amount of water for brewing . There is a screen on the bottom , and a plunger with another screen on it that screws down on top of the coffee to smush it between the two filters . The tightness of this top filter controls the strength of the coffee . The tighter it is , the slower water flows , and the stronger the brew . " EDIT : Regarding the " bonus question " : I 'm not aware of chicory as an ingredient in Vietnamese/Thai iced coffee , I 'm only familiar with it as a traditional New Orleans addition , having migrated from France . It became a popular substitution during the French Revolution when coffee became prohibitively expensive . I dug up a recipe for New Orleans chicory coffee <URL> . " Ingredients 1 lb . coarsely ground coffee , 1 1/2 oz . roasted and chopped chicory , 2 1/2 quarts water , 3 oz . simple syrup , Tools Large stockpot , Wooden spoon , Fine-mesh sieve , Large Mason jar , Combine the ground coffee , chicory and water in a stockpot . Stir with a wooden spoon , cover and let steep at room temperature for 8-12 hours . Carefully break the crust of the coffee grounds with a spoon and strain through a fine-mesh sieve into the Mason jar . Add simple syrup to concentrate and stir to combine . Serve over ice and add milk to taste -- most people opt for about a 50/50 ratio of milk to chicory-coffee concentrate . Keep refrigerated and use within 1-2 days . Yields 4-5 cups of concentrate .
I 've done it before without problems . Even if they 're peanut butter &amp; jelly ( something that 's typically stored in the fridge ) , it has so much sugar in it that it 's inhospitable to microbes . If you want to play it extra safe , and the sandiwiches wo n't be easten shortly after you leave , you could place them in the freezer and then let them thaw in your bag . ... all that being said , if you 're in the US , the TSA considers peanut butter to be a gel , so wo n't let you fly with a container of it . I have no idea what their rules are in sandwich form . ( I 've never tried it , as I typically fly w / cold cut sandwiches , and just take them straight from the fridge before I go ) .
It 's not so much the taste as the texture . If they have n't been sauted first , the onions stay relatively crunchy during the rest of the cooking . The same is true of the garlic , but you 'd usually have cut the garlic into much smaller pieces so it does n't take as long to soften up , hence kicking the onion off first and adding the garlic a bit later .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
Perfect . Sounds like your pizza stone is nicely seasoned . Scrub it with your stiffest brush , rinse with water , no soap , done . If you 're paranoid about germs , cook it before cooking on it . Throw it in the oven at a few hundred degrees , for 15 minutes or so . Ideally , you 're supposed to heat the stone ( thus sterilizing it ) before slapping the pizza upon it anyway ( although that requires a <URL> ) .
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
Personally , I 've never made a dish that required greasing of the crockpot - even if it called for it , I 've ignored that step and had no problems . I can only imagine the step is added to ensure nothing sticks - but my crockpot ( and all others I 've seen ) are glazed porcelain or ceramic , and the recipes always include a liquid of some kind , so I do n't think that 's going to be a problem . If I were going to grease it , however , I 'd do it in the method you described , and use a very light touch .
Because onions contain a lot of flavour compounds that we like , and which are synergistic with meats .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
I 'm not exactly sure why you 're trying to brine then boil ; you should be able to simply boil your chicken in salty stock and get plenty of salt into it . It wo n't take nearly as long as brining , because things happen faster in boiling water . Assuming you boil for any significant length of time , much of the salt will indeed come out into the cooking liquid , and you 'll end up with your soup approximately as salty as the chicken . ( If the chicken is in large pieces , this of course only applies to the part the brining and cooking liquids can actually reach . )
There are no real doneness rules on mirepoix per se ( even raw is used in some dishes ) . However , the recipe designer may say sweat versus sauté to give an indication of colour and flavour depth to match the ' headliner ' of the dish ( usually the meat ) . Although not a rule , you may generally see sweat used more for lighter meats like fish and fowl and sauté for darker and gamier meat like beef and lamb . That way a darker and more browned mirepoix will not overwhelm say a delicate fish ( both in colour and taste ) .
You should n't heat a non stick pan without the oil , because it is too easy to overheat it and ruin the coating . So , I put oil inside first , and tell by the state of the oil . It smells , looks and flows different when it is hot enough . You can also learn to judge if there is sufficient heat when you hold your palm at a given distance above the pan , but in my experience , you learn to judge by the oil before you have gotten good enough to keep the same distance and to distinguish " enough " from " not enough " heat . If you do n't have enough experience to know when the oil is ready , you have to do it repeatedly until you learn it . It takes a few less-than-great meals if you do it purely by trial and error , and goes better if you use an infrared thermometer . You can also try floating cubes of stale white bread and watch their browning behavior , but I find this method too involved logistically - you have to have the bread , cut it , then deal with messy pieces of oily bread , and end up with slowly charring crumbles in your pan .
This is absolutely fine , especially if the eggs are pasteurised . I 've seen plenty of recipes that have raw egg in them that say it ; s fine to freeze them . You can even freeze eggs ( that have been mixed up a little ) for up to three months . So yes , I 'd say freeze it as soon as possible . Also , if you were concerned about freezing the quinoa that will fine as well ( a lot of people do n't know you can store grains in the freezer ) . Enjoy !
Kosher salt and a small amount of vegetable oil . Scrub the pan with the salt on a rag or paper towel , if there are stubborn bits mix a couple drops of oil with the salt , wipe dry with clean towel . If you use a wet method to clean the pan re-heat it after cleaning to make sure it is completely dry before storing .
Doughs are docked to keep them from blowing up with steam while they bake . Thus - you only do it in applications that you do n't want blown up - like blind pie crusts . Puff pastry applications , for example , you usually do want to blow up so you will get a lot of light layers . If you are baking a pastry with a filling then the filling will keep this from happening . If you are baking blind , even with pie weights , you should dock because the weights might not weight evenly and you might still get a bubble .
Torani Peach Syrup ! It 's readily available online or at coffee shop supply outlets . <URL>
end question
start question
How can I best dry homemade extruded pasta ?
Though I 've never dried extruded pasta . I regularly make and dry out cut pastas like fettuccine . I prefer egg based pastas , as they 're richer . I dry mine at room temperature in nests . Even with the egg I 've never gotten ill . This is how my great grandparents had done it . So I 'm fairly certain its very uncommon to become ill from the conditions you dry the pasta in . Especially since you are n't using eggs , I doubt you 'll have a problem when it comes to food safety . Most drying methods are done at room temperature . I 'm assuming extruded pastas take a bit longer to dry , but I do n't think this is going to be an issue . The only time I have trouble with pasta is when I put it in a ziplock without properly drying it . This pasta will mold , and its pretty easy to spot . I 'll leave pasta to dry for more than 24 hours before I put it in a plastic bag . Even then I keep the bag only half sealed for the first couple days just to be sure . Really the drying period is what would worry me . I 'd be worried about it being dry enough before storing , than I would be worried about it molding or spoiling while drying . Which you do n't really need to do . Small insects tend to enjoy flour , so storing in a tuperware container with some cheese cloth over the top might be a better approach , as it allows moisture to escape . I would n't be so much overly worried about bacteria , as these will be killed in the cooking process . However , mold , even when killed , is still dangerous . Throw out any moldy pasta . It wo n't go moldy unless you store it airtight while its still damp . Simply put , dry it thoroughly , and you do n't need to worry about spoilage . The dried pasta will easily last for months . If you 're going to cook it the next day , you can even just refrigerate it without drying . As drying thoroughly might take longer than the period of time between prepping and cooking . If you 're prepping a few days or more ahead , drying would make sense . It 's very common to dry pastas at room temperature , and there is n't any safety regulation against doing so even if your pasta has egg in it . Doing so in a cooled environment is just an added precaution . However , I 've made and dried pasta for years without any ill effects of doing so at room temperature . So some simple rules : Dry it thoroughly , it should be bone dry . At least 15 hours ( it 's humid here , so I do at least 24hrs in summer ) . Use your best judgement . It takes a long time to dry , so making in larger quantities less often is often prefered if you 're prepping for short order . Do n't store it in an airtight container , but something that can breath but does n't allow insects/debris to come in contact . Store in a cool , dark place . Remove any excess flour that could trap moisture .
You need 1.1 x as much water as pasta for al dente ! I measured this myself , cooking penne rigate ( in water , not sauce ) - 200g of pasta weighed 420g after being cooked and thoroughly drained . The estimate below from the nutrition facts is 1.4 x , which probably corresponds to typical American overcooked pasta - a surprisingly large difference from mine . I 'm guessing you 'll be somewhere between , maybe 1.25 x . You can also ballpark it from nutrition facts . <URL> has 31g carbs per 100g pasta , and <URL> has 75g carbs per 100g pasta . So 100g dry pasta turns into 100g * 75/31 = 242g of cooked pasta , meaning the added water was ~ 1.4 x the weight of the pasta . So for a pound of pasta , that 's 1.4 pounds or about 2 2/3 cups of water . Given people 's tastes , this might be a little past al dente , so I would personally start with maybe 1.25 cups of water then add a little more if necessary . ( I 'll also try cooking pasta normally and weighing it if I get a chance . ) Note : if you have a significantly different variety of pasta , it will obviously behave differently . This is for pasta that 's 13 % protein and 75 % carbohydrates . For the standard 2oz/56g ( dry ) serving on the package , it 'll say 7g protein and 41-42g carbohydrates . I checked Barilla , De Cecco , Ronzonni , Garofalo , Safeway store brand , Trader Joe 's store brand , and those nutrition facts , and they all matched . If you 're branching out to other styles like whole grains or egg noodles , things will obviously change , but things are very uniform in the US .
You can save yourself the waste of making double , while preventing cross-contamination , by using one hand ( clean ) to scoop and sprinkle , and one hand ( dirty ) to direct the spice falling , pat/tamp , and rub the spices . Typically I begin by applying a " glue " ( previously I have used honey and mustard , once I was vegan I went with just mustard ; both worked well on smoker ) to the cut of meat or vegetable before smoking or bbq . I follow applying the glue by washing my hands , then proceed with whatever rub I am using after the glue has had a chance to adhere ( typically thirty minutes medium , but I have followed instructions to let set and congeal for up to eight hours ) . Then , you can apply the rub following the method above : keep one hand clean to pick up handfuls of rub and sprinkle the rub down , use the other hand to press that rub you are sprinkling down against the cut . This sequence minimizes the number of steps , the times where you need to wash your hands , and makes for great bark . Hopefully you can rotate the cut with one hand , if not it adds one hand-wash . I started doing it this way because I hated having the spice turn into clumps from the moisture . Now I not only have no clumps in the spice after , and sanitary spices for further usage , but also a clean left hand for turning on the sink to wash my right hand .
Al dente cooking is a transitional state that lasts for a very short amount of time ( one minute longer in boiling water makes pasta too soft , one minute shorter and it 's still crunchy ) . For this reason , authentic Italian pasta packages state a precise cooking time , which is very reliable to make a good al dente pasta . A cooking time interval ( e.g. " 7 to 10 minutes " ) is usually given to accommodate to other countries taste , who may prefer a softer pasta , and therefore its presence could be a good indicator of an Italian look-alike pasta brand . In this case the lower figure indicates the al dente cooking . Lacking this information , a good cooking time can be figured by cross section size , length and shape of pasta : obviously , thicker and squat formats require more time . Complex shapes , such as farfalle , can be trickier because a thick core could reach the al dente cooking while the thinner edges are already too soft . As a rule of thumb , cooking times for common pasta formats are : Long and very thin ( spaghettini , bavette ) : 6 min Long and thin ( spaghetti , linguine , bucatini ) : 8 min Short and thick ( maccheroni , rigatoni , fusilli ) : 12 min Small and thick ( farfalle ) : 8 min Small and thin ( pasta usually boiled straight into broth ) : 6 min These cooking times apply only for dry durum-wheat pasta ; other types ( such as fresh egg pasta ) usually have a shorter cooking time . After straining the boiling water , pasta continues to cook by its own heat ; for this reason it has to be eaten as soon as possible . Only for some Italian regional recipes ( typically pasta boiled straight into a thick vegetable juice , e.g. pasta with beans , pasta with potatoes ) you may want to let it rest for up to 5 minutes after straining to let the juices coagulate . Also , for recipes where pasta has to undergo a second cooking after boiling ( e.g. stir frying in a pan with vegetables , shrimps , mushrooms , etc. ) a better result is obtained by boiling pasta just one minute less than the cooking time given on the package .
Look at : <URL> Conversion Measurements for Using Different Yeasts in Recipes :
This similar ( also has heavy cream ) recipe from epicurious recommends : " Room temperature , up to 3 days ; refrigerated , at least 3 months . " <URL> ... And that conforms to my personal opinion , as well . I would not freeze it .
For pan frying you probably want to start with a firm tofu . It 's a good idea to press the tofu to remove excess water : wrap the tofu in a cloth and place it between two cutting boards , weighting the top cutting board with a heavy book or other similar object . Wait at least twenty minutes ( you can prepare the rest of the vegetables/onions for the stir fry at this point . Once the tofu has been pressed , cut it into the desired pieces . It 's a good idea to fry it at medium-high heat in only oil first , then add sauces ( soy sauce , vinegar , whatever ) only after the tofu begins to brown slightly . Note : the above wo n't simulate deep-fried tofu . For deep fried tofu , you may want to use a softer tofu , still press it before using , and coat the cubes in corn starch before frying . Of course you probably know you can deep-fry at home with just a large pot of oil . For a different texture you can freeze the tofu before frying . Although not fried , I would also recommend that you try baked ( marinaded ) tofu to see if you like that texture/flavor better . You would still want to press the tofu , then slice it rather thinly . You can reapply the marinade during baking for more flavor .
How to see if your pasta is " al dente " : If your pasta cooks about in 10 minutes ( for example ) , when you put pasta into the boiling water take one pasta after 8 minute ( about 20 % before the time of cook ) , bite it and observe the pasta : the external is more yellow than the internal that is white . When the internal white disappears the pasta has cooked " normale " , when the internal white is small the pasta is " al dente " . Greetings from Italy Everybody know cooking , not everybody speak english very well
I trim the stem and remove the outer leaves till they snap to get to the fresh inner core and steam them the night or morning before grilling so they are cold and moist . I prefer steaming because I want all of the nutrients to remain in the artichoke . I cut them in half for the grill , remove the choke and brush them with grapeseed oil where they come into contact with the grill . First , facing down grill them till they feel hot on top then ; flip them over to keep the yummy inner side tender . fill the cavity with garlic butter and ... lemon if you wish . I prefer the brown color to the lemon flavor . I cook them till the butter melts . I like mine barely smokey because artichokes take on the smoke too easily and will taste burned . You ca n't taste the flavor of the artichoke if it gets too smokey .
Use the pasta cooking techniques in this answer : <URL> Bring just enough water to cover the pasta to a boil , put the lid on and let it sit . Use less water , less energy , and it ca n't boil over if it 's not boiling .
I like the method of wrapping it in a damp paper towel and zapping it in the microwave for 10-20 seconds . This should moisten it up just enough to allow you to split and scrape . This article mentions that method as well as soaking very briefly in hot water : <URL>
See : <URL> The principles remain the same for grilling or barbecuing : you want to cook the squid briefly so it does n't toughen up , or slowly for a long time , so that the collagen dissolves to gelatin , making the squid tender again . In between is the rubbery zone . The main issue is that many squid are not really large enough to place directly on a grill grate without danger of falling through , so you may wish to use a fish or vegetable grilling grate . You can then grill them briefly , over high heat . It is probably possible to use low-and-slow smoking techniques ( true barbecuing ) , but I did n't find any really credible sources or recipes , and I have never tried this myself . You could also grill the squid to get some smokey flavor , then finish by braising them ( for example , in a disposable pie tin on the cool side of your grill , with flavorful liquid ) for a long time . Googling <URL> will give you many recipes to try , with a variety of marinades and treatments .
There are two basic kinds of potatoes : starchy and waxy . The difference is actually in the amount of starch in them . Starchy potatoes , such as Russet or Idaho potatoes are best for baking , since the starch will allow it to be nice and fluffy after it 's baked . They do n't hold their shape particularly well when cooked . If you cut into a baked potato , it should be crumbly and dry . Waxy potatoes include most fingerling potatoes , and most red potatoes . They hold their shape better when cooked , so they are good for soups and stews and potato salads . Yellow-fleshed potatoes such as Yukon Gold or Yellow Finn are in between , and so can be used for either purpose . Purple potatoes also seem to have medium starch , and so can be used for both . According to one cookbook I have ( Moosewood Restaurant New Classics ) , there are two ways to determine which is which . If you cut the potato in half , the blade will have a film or a foamy residue on the knife . These potatoes may also stick to the knife because of the starch . The rules for the brine is to make it of 11 parts water to 1 part salt . A high-starch potato will sink ( it 's denser ) and a low-starch one will float . Here 's a <URL> . Now as to choosing ones that will bake well , it really depends on size . You want potatoes that will bake evenly , so try to choose ones of similar size . I bake my potatoes directly on the oven rack so that the hot air can move freely around them . Try to give them lots of room for that . Also , if you wrap them in aluminum foil , they 'll steam and wo n't give you the nice crunchy skin . ( And I 'd avoid any potatoes with irregular shapes -- the smaller diameter ones may cook before the larger ones . ) Large potatoes take about an hour to bake at 350F . Lots of small ones may take a bit less time -- experiment with your oven and your potatoes . I 'd start squeezing slightly after about 40-45 minutes . If they yield when squeezed , they 're probably done .
The issue here is how long do you steep the tea , at what temperature , and under what conditions do you store the used tea bags ? The reason " sun tea " has been discouraged has been because of the likelihood that the tea leaves that are in the bags are contaminated with bacteria such that a long soak in luke-warm water such as that of the " sun tea " causes them to multiply to the extent that they become a serious health risk . Tea leaves are not typically pasteurized during their processing , and may carry viable bacteria and / or bacterial spores . If you were to soak the tea bad in warm water not hot enough to get a good bacterial kill initially , there may be enough viable bacteria in the tea leaves to grow during that 5 hour interval such that the next cup may be seriously dangerous ( some may divide every 15 minutes , for example ) . However , if you were to adequately kill the bacteria and spores off by a nice hot soak ( for this example , you would need to use a pressure cooker since some bacterial spores are not even killed by boiling water at atmospheric pressure ) , refrigerate the tea bag afterwards , and then reuse it 5 hours later it would likely be perfectly fine . I think the final answer to your question comes down to your own personal risk tolerance and the conditions above . If you brew in luke-warm water or for a very brief time and then leave the bags out at room temperature you are just asking for trouble and eventually you may hit the loaded chamber in your own personal Russian roulette game . For empiric answers , take your particular brewing temperature and time and compare it to the USDA tables for pasteurization . Then , look up the growth curves for the major pathogens at your storage temperature and figure out how many would likely be present after 5 hours ( 20 generations at 15 minutes per generation or 2 ^ 20 times more bacteria than viable after the brewing event at the end of the storage interval ) .
Speaking as a Brit - we are a nation of chip lovers :) Use an oil which can cope with the high temperature such as groundnut . For that proper chip experience ( * heart attack alert * ) add some beef dripping or lard . I add a small amount to give the chips a nice flavour . Whilst heating the oil regulary dip a chip in the oil . When it starts to bubble then it 's time to cook . If the oil is too cold the chips will absorb it and they 'll go soggy . ( This is easier to achieve with a traditional chip pan or I prefer a deep saucepan ) . For the perfect chip the potato variety is important but this is personal taste . Last seasons reds will make dark delicious chips but I prefer new potatoes which make a crisper lighter coloured chip . ( The potato variety also affects the colour when cooked ) . Finally , drain on kitchen paper and a sprinkle of salt .
There 's a few types of salsa -- salsa fresca ( aka pico de gallo , aka salsa cruda ) , which is " fresh salsa " and uncooked , and if made fresh , it should n't be too watery ( unless you add to much liquid , eg , lime juice ) , but letting the vegetables sit after salting will start to draw out extra liquid and could become watery . For truly thick salsa , you have to treat it like a jam , and cook it to release the pectin in the tomato . ( or I guess you could use some other thickeners ... I 've never tried . tomato paste , maybe ? ) You do n't necessarily have to cook the other ingredients , too , but I personally like roasting the peppers and onions to sweeten then up and remove some of the extra liquid . ( halve the peppers and seed them , lay them on a tray cut side up with the onion cut into wedges , roast 'til they 're softened , then dump into a food processor and either pulse or liquify it , depending on how chunky you like it . And the skin falls off the peppers , so I leave 'em out ) . You can do the same roasting with the tomatoes , and it 'll be thicker from the food processor , but you wo n't get the same cling without letting them cook slowly in liquid to develop the pectin . If you roast the tomatoes , I like to use plum tomatoes , as they have more " meat " to the gel around the seeds , and take out the gel and seeds .
I found <URL> in the LA Times with detailed experiments suggesting that soaking beans is unnecessary and it takes away the flavor and texture .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
I have that problem when I am impatient and do n't let the pasta dry out long enough before putting it on to boil . It is important to let the pasta dry even just in loose little heaps once sliced into noodles . It does n't have to get totally dry just dry enough that you ca n't squish the noodles back together into dough . Also you need to cook fresh pasta for a very short amount of time in a LOT of water , about 1.5 x as much water as you would use for dry , so that the noodles have less chance to run into each other . In fact I frequently do n't boil them at all separately but just toss them in the soup I am serving them with for for a two to three minutes before serving .
Try wrapping it in foil and cooking on a very low temperature in the oven or toaster oven . ( Our oven has a " warm " setting that 's ~ 170 F. ) You can also include some water or broth in your foil packet but it wo n't penetrate much beyond the surface if the meat has been cooked before . It 'll make that 1st bite taste more moist but in the long run it wo n't do much .
end question
start question
Fully cooked , but requires a minimum internal temperature ?
There are arguments of the universal validity of such rules , but there has long been an argument that reheated meat that was pre-cooked should always be brought to full safe temperature . The general idea is that cooked or not there is bacteria present . If heated to only the 100-120F range , you have reached the temperature of highest active growth of many pathogens , without killing them . Some will argue that this is safe , as long as you eat the item immediately , not let it sit and give time for that bacterial growth to bloom . I would even put credence to this for items which I knew the preparation and handling history , but for prefab type foods , like ground meats and especially poultry , I personally would be reluctant to take risks , I would bring it to temp . There also has always been disclaimers that the reheating to temp rule only applies to if you reheat at all , for instance , medium rare roast beef is often eaten cold as leftover , but the rule stated if you reheat , the reheat to what would have originally be considered a safe temperature , not part way . With something like a prepped burger , again , I personally would not eat it cold , and just thawing it might put you into an unknown zone . I would heat it .
To be perfectly honest with you , in all my years of cooking in kitchens I never took the temp of the fish . It was always by feel and look . Yes , I know that the gov ' t has guidelines that say 145F for fish but really when it comes down to it , if you have an 8oz cut of salmon/cod/monk in the pan , sticking an instant read into the middle wo n't do you much good . ( Caveat : If it was a salmon Wellington I would shoot for 130F as it 's a fully enclosed package that you ca n't feel for doneness ) The thickness of the cut will make a huge difference in when you should pull it out as you get post-oven cooking during resting in which the heat continues to heat the core of the flesh up to a final cooked temperature . That 's why most chefs will take the roast out at a rare measured temp when they are shooting for a med rare serving state . If your question is what state should monk fish be served , IE med rare ( like salmon ) or rare ( like tuna ) then I would say med-rare is your best bet . Over cooking is a bad thing for monk fish and it goes from a lovely moist state to dry nastiness really quick . A nice way to cook it that helps to give you a little move wiggle room when cooking it is to wrap it in Parma ham ( prosciutto ) . The little extra wrapping tastes great but also gives you a little bit of buffer as you get close to that magical temperature of doneness . Hope it helps .
In the food safety section of Modernist Cuisine ( 1-138 ) it says that all wild rabbit must be cooked through : Wild rabbit must be cooked well done to kill any tularemia bacteria ; for rare or medium cooked rabbit dishes , chefs can substitute farm-raised rabbits that have been kept segregated from their wild relatives by trustworthy breeders . The section on meat ( 3-96 ) recommends bringing rabbit loin to an internal temperature of 59C ( 138F ) and going by the section I 've just quoted this is obviously only for farmed meat . The recommendation for the legs is to cook sous vide for 1 hour @ 66C ( 151F ) which again obviously refers to farmed because that 's definitely not long enough to tenderise wild rabbit meat . I would really recommend cooking the leg meat and loin separately as I find that the loin dries out long before the legs are cooked through . The legs are much nicer braised too .
The main difference is the degradation of cell walls . The human digestive system does indeed struggle to break down the cellulose in cell walls , meaning that we are far more efficient in getting nutrients from vegetables when they are cooked . That does n't mean however that cooked veggies are always more nutritious than raw ones . There is actually quite a bit of debate on that and some people even eat raw foods exclusively . Your question is actually very similar to <URL> . You might find some useful insights there .
I notice Flank steak already made the list , and once I would have agreed , but it 's gotten trendy , and with the trendiness , expensive . It 's still not fillet-price , but it tends to run in the 7-8 dollar a pound range where I live . The steak I like to grill that I find to be tasty , cheap , and available is <URL> . Do a light marinade , grill it as lightly as possible , cut across the grain of the meat , serve . Your mileage may vary , however . The cheapest cuts are almost always the ones that local cooks do n't know what to do with , and if the locals are hounds for the fajita , you 're not going to be able to find skirt steak at all . My advice is to go to the store with an open mind , and browse the meat counter looking for deals . I came home with 3 pounds of tenderloin tips for less than twenty bucks the other day : if I 'd gone out looking to buy such a thing , I 'd have been disappointed .
First of all , visual similarity has little to no importance in cooking . The way an item is handled depends on its texture , taste , flavor and interaction with other ingredients , and it is rare that these are connected among similar looking substances . When it happens , it is because they are related chemically , physically or biologically , not because they look alike . Now on to the lettuce , and why we do n't need to cook it . There are a few reasons why we cook vegetables . Because they are too hard to chew comfortably . That one does n't apply to lettuce , it has very tender leaves . In fact , once you cook it , it goes not from hard to soft ( as does a , say , carrot ) , but from tender to limp . On the other hand , it can be useful for cabbage . Try to wolf down a salad made from cabbage only , especially if you are a medieval peasant with no access to a mandoline ( so your wife did n't cut it up in 2.5 mm stripes , but hacked as good as she could with whatever knife she had ) . It is possible , but requires much more jaw work than spooning coleslaw . Because we want to mellow their taste . Joe 's answer covers this , there is n't much reason to mellow the taste of lettuce . Because we want to neutralize toxins or irritants . Plants like beans and potatoes come to mind in this category , but this does n't apply to lettuce ( neither to cabbage ) . To kill off germs . Traditionally , this has n't been a concern with most vegetables . Because we like a filling , warm meal . This is by no means a universal preference , but the more you get into the North , the more likely it is that the main meal is served warm . Cabbage makes for an excellent main meal for said peasant - easy to grow in abundance , relatively carbohydrate rich , especially before starchy crops like potatoes and maize got widespread . It is also easily preserved for the winter ( and after imperfect home fermentation , the taste mellowing part becomes important ) . So it is frequently cooked to soups or casseroles . Lettuce , on the other hand , is not really a main meal . It has much less calories per volume , and also per unit of cultivated land . So it is eaten in addition to the main , filling meal , not as a main part of it . So there is no need to make it warm too . Note that there are examples for cooked leaf soups without much calories , but these are poor man 's food , and made from leaves usually foraged , not cultivated ( nettle , sorrel , dock ) . They are used more as a diversion against hunger than actually stilling it , when there are no resources for better ( = more caloric ) food . They do deliver micronutrients though . I do n't know why lettuce is n't commonly used this way , but I suspect that there is no wild lettuce in the places where nettle and sorrel are eaten . Of these , only spinach seems to have survived the cultural shift to centralized food production . Because it is a structural part of some cooked dish . Other answers mention wrappers . Its shape lets it be used in this way , but it is a poor wrapper , both tastewise and in terms of durability , leaf size and thermal isolation . Wherever you live , you are likely to have a better wrapper lying around . As the other answers mention , it does get cooked from time to time . But it is more of a whim , or a wish for diversity I guess . None of the usual reasons for cooking other vegetables applies to it . You can still cook it if you want to , but it is better suited for a fresh salad appilcation .
The canning process makes food safe : existing bacteria and fungi are killed , the intrusion of new pathogens is prevented by sealing the container . ( More e.g. <URL> . ) As soon as you open the can or jar , its contents are exposed to the surrounding air which will contain bacteria and fungal spores . Some of those will happily grow feeding on the food they land on . Refrigerating slows down their metabolism , meaning they ca n't reach dangerous numbers within the recommended storage time after opening . For more info on storing food , see our canonical posts <URL> and on how long quickly-spoiling food can be <URL> .
Spaetzle is basically a noodle . Throw together egg , flour and salt ( maybe some water to thin it out ) and force it through a mold . Anything with holes can be used as a mold ( for instance , I 've used my old metal colander and that would work fine ) . Once the dough is formed into little pieces ( it does n't usually hold together for long threads ) , put it in boiling water to cook for a few minutes and dress it to eat however you desire . Note : some people say Spaetzle is a noodle , some say a dumpling , I have no preference , I just call it tasty !
My friend makes coconut crusts all the time and she bakes them at 350 degrees . But AllRecipes.com bakes their crust at 325 degrees for 15 minutes .
It really depends on the texture you are looking for in your finished product . If you want a chunky chicken salad then bake your chicken breasts seasoned or not , I season mine , and then cube them . If you want something a little more exciting pan grill the breasts to the point of a little char and then dice . If you want your chicken to be flavorless and get all of your flavor from the mix you are tossing your chicken into , boil it or put it in a slow cooker if you are cooking up a big batch . It all really comes down to how you like to eat your chicken salad , and more importantly how pretty you want it to look in your serving method , because a cajun blackened chicken salad sandwich can look down right homely . I say try them all until you fall in love with one temporarily and when that has lost its passion try a different version . Also as a side note if I am preparing it for me and not for someone else , so it does n't have to be all white and pretty , I use thighs instead of breasts since they are more forgiving and generally cheaper . If I am not just breaking down a whole chicken and using the leftovers .
Generically speaking meat that is appropriate for a braise is tougher and has connective tissue that can be turned to gelatin by the long slow cooking process . As you 've noted , meat that is tender can be " cooked to death " using that same method , so I would , generally , recommend against using a braise . However , a stove top braise can go quickly without ruining the meat , if you keep it short and treat the braising liquid as more of a sauce than anything else . I would suggest that you brown each side of your lamb chops , then add all your other ingredients . Depending on the amount of liquid your original recipe calls for , you might want to cut back . I would n't want more than 1/2 cup or so of liquid . " Braise " covered on the top of the stove for 1/2 hour , never going past a simmer . Pull out the chops and cover , while you reduce the braising liquid to make it more sauce-like , then spoon onto the chops . Note that you wo n't have the long time to meld flavors , and if there are big chunks of garlic or onions , they wo n't be a sweet as in the longer braise . But you should get a serviceable dish .
Microwave ovens have a turntable because the microwaves themselves form what are known as ' standing waves ' . This means there are essentially static columns of microwave energy inside the cabinet itself . You can see this for yourself - spread a tray or plate with grated cheese , take the turntable out ( or press that button ) , and zap it for a couple of minutes . You should see bands of melted cheese interleaved with unmelted cheese . Thus , the food is rotated to ensure even heating .
Let 's do some physics again : All culinary aspects aside , a roast is a ( more or less ) solid " blob " with a certain mass and volume . To get the roast to the desired doneness , you want to reach a certain temperature at the center of the meat . The crucial properties are the <URL> and <URL> of your meat or , very simply put , how fast your meat transports the oven heat towards the center of your roast , which again is calculated on oven heat and starting temperature of your meat . This depends on geometry , or , the maximum thickness of your meat . Hence the rule to stick your meat thermometer in the thickest part of your meat . Two ducks next to each other are two separate masses , which heat up independently , not one roast of greater thickness : Two ducks in your oven need basically the same time as one duck of the same size . ( A good oven should be capable of heating enough that the second duck wo n't lower the temperature significantly . ) Now to the practical points : For the reasons discussed above , it is easiest if you choose two ducks of about the same size and weight . If not , one will need less time than the other and you might have to take one bird out of the oven sooner . If both shall be done at the same time , the smaller one needs to go in a short while after the bigger one - how much time difference is very hard to say , even with those handy " roasting time by weight " charts in cookbooks or on the Internet : Use a thermometer , not a timer , to determine doneness . ( And do n't forget that the core temperature will rise a few degrees even after you have taken the bird out . ) You ask about positioning in a conventional oven : By all means roast your birds side by side , not one above the other . Stacked , they will be very close to the top or bottom heating element , which will at least dry them out but more likely burn the top or bottom , while shielding the other bird from the heat on one side . Even if you switch positions occasionally ( do you really want to juggle hot pans ? ) , you get the same effect of a " burned-but-undercooked " bird . And no , foil will not prevent this . And just because we repeat it again and again : Do not determine the doneness of your roast by a watch , use a meat thermometer .
I feel the same as you Anderson . I found that too and you just made me to do some research , which I found they have different smoke points . Unrefined sunflower oil 225 ° F 107 ° C Unrefined peanut oil 320 ° F 160 ° C see the link : <URL> Also , one of the reasons food stick to the pan is the evenness of the temperature of the pan . If you use a thicker pan or copper pan , the heat will be distributed on the pan more evenly and food will stick less . The higher smoke point of oil makes me to believe the oil helps to distribute heat more evenly .
Steam a head of cauliflower , puree it . Add it to the soup . You might also consider some squash or sweet potato puree .
Putting the pan on the burner will deliver too much heat in too little time - aka a burnt layer . You want constant heat from the bottom during the whole cooking time . In an oven , your pizza stone is an excellent start , supplying a thermal mass . I recommend increasing the heat from the bottom compared to the heat from the top , even if this could slightly increase the total cooking time : Set your oven to " bottom heat " and / or put the pan on the lowest rack possible . A sheet of foil can also shield the pan from top heat .
Ground beef cooks quite fast . It does n't need more than 5 minutes ( depending on the base of your pan and the amount of meat of course ) . Just take a piece and rip/cut it open . If it 's brown inside , and not red or pink , it 's fully cooked .
If what you 're looking for is a close substitute for whipped cream frosting , that narrows the <URL> down . <URL> is made with a sugar syrup ( with cream of tartar and other flavorings ) which is boiled and added to whipped egg whites which set with the residual heat . It is a light and fluffy frosting which contains no fats . <URL> is made with whipped egg whites and sugar ( and other flavorings ) which is then heated over a double boiler to set the egg whites . This frosting is thick and fluffy , though it will deflate over time unless baked . French style meringue frosting is supposedly left uncooked , which may change the flavors . You might also want to look at Royal icing , made with <URL> or <URL> and powdered sugar , which does not require cooking , and will have a similar flavor profile to boiled or meringue style frosting . However , the texture is not fluffy but smooth , and it tends to be dried hard , and used for structure or decoration . For textural purposes , you wo n't find a better match for whipped cream style frosting than whipped egg white based frosting . If you 're looking for flavor profile rather than texture , you might try a simple <URL> that 's thinned with milk instead of water ( possibly with a small amount of butter for flavor ) . Something like <URL> might work well , with both butter and milk in the mix , though you can certainly tweak your proportions to your taste . Or something like <URL> which includes flour and egg white along with butter , milk and sugar for a complex frosting recipe that might be less sweet . And , finally , you might look at <URL> , which includes butter , marshmallow fluff , sugar and milk , and which should be light , fluffy , and sweet . There are also <URL> which include actual marshmallows instead of fluff , melting them into something like a boiled icing recipe , or into a <URL> . Other frosting recipes might not be a good match for your preferences - the recipe you did n't like , of margarine and powdered sugar , seems very similar to a <URL> recipe , which is thicker , sweeter and richer than whipped cream frosting . Likewise , cream cheese frosting ( similar to buttercream with butter , sugar and milk in addition to the actual cream cheese ) is less sweet , but tends towards creamy , dense and smooth rather than light and fluffy . And ganache frosting , made with chocolate and cream , is flavored , denser , and requires the missing ingredient ( cream ) itself . You might check out the <URL> buttercream frostings , though , as they are lighter , fluffier , and less sweet than the American version - both the <URL> and <URL> are close to a mix of meringue and boiled style frosting ( respectively ) and buttercream . The <URL> version , on the other hand , uses egg yolks with the sugar syrup and butter for a richer flavor .
Room temperature for sure ! Eating something like salami chilled detracts from its flavour . Obviously you want to be a bit careful about leaving it out for a really long time , but I usually take anything I want to eat out of the fridge well before consumption .
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
end question
start question
What is the term for the " amuse-bouche " at the end of the meal ?
I believe you 're thinking of " mignardises . " This is what they call it on the french laundry menu , and others . Another possibility is " Petit Fours " , which are small pastries typically served at the end of a meal . I believe there is some overlap in the use of the two terms .
It should n't have any effect , in the sense of any flavors leaching . If your container does change the taste , you should replace it . But it would be very unusual to chance upon a taste-changing container . Most cookware is non reactive , and containers meant for preparing and serving tea even less so . For example , untreated aluminium is reactive , but I 've never heard of it being used for tea pots or tea mugs . Steel is completely OK in that regard . Melamine also has no effect on taste , but see the footnote for safety considerations . The most likely condition under which you find a taste change would be if you are using ceramic teapots or mugs which were not mass produced for daily use , but made by a pottery hobbyist or by some exotic traditional technique which does not reach the convenience standards of modern mass production . In that case , you can simply switch the container to a neutral one , if the taste bothers you , or if you are worried about the safety of glaze leaching into your drink . Why porcelain or glazed earthenware No special reason . What you cite is an ISO standard . It was n't made for people making tea at home , they wanted to have perfect reproducibility , and the easiest way is to restrict as many variables as possible . So they took one of the traditional choices and prescribed it in their standard . There is no reason to follow that standard when you make tea for drinking . The material affects the taste of the tea in other ways : it has an influence on the speed of cooling down . But it is impossible to make a general recommendation here , as 1 ) there are many other factors influencing the cooling speed , and 2 ) people have different preferences for the taste of tea . The only relevance here is that , if you have found a process which produces tea you like with one set of utensils , it might produce a different taste if you use a different teapot , and you 'll have to experiment until you have calibrated the process to your preferences again . But the differences here are subtle , you have to be a pretty dedicated tea drinker to be bothered by them . Footnote on melamine safety : Melamine is a resin which contains traces of formaldehyde , a known carcinogen . The formaldehyde does not end up in the food at room temperature , but it starts leaching at higher temperatures , this is why it is not microwave safe . As the leaching process is gradual , and depends on pH besides temperature , there is no hard temperature prescription beyond which it is considered unsafe to use . But I could n't find any source rating melamine for over 100 Celsius , and some of them give a lower temperature such as 60 or 70 Celsius . If you are concerned about the formaldehyde , you are probably better off choosing another mug . Porcelain is the standard choice , but steel and some plastics are also frequently used . For a short consumer info on melamine , see <URL> .
Fix Compacted Flour . Flour will compact over time ( and during shipment ) . You could sift the flour to fluff it back up . Or , you could just stir it before measuring and be sure to spoon the flour into your measuring cup in order to get a correct volume measurement . Remove Unwanted Material . Yes , sifting would also remove larger pieces or bits of chaff . It would also remove insects . However , neither of these are problems with modern store-bought flour . If you grind your own flour ( my sister-in-law does this ) , then you may still want to sift it , though . Mix Ingredients Together . Sifting can also be used to mix other dry ingredients into flour . I bake quite a bit , though , and I 've never had a problem with just using a spoon or whisk to mix dry ingredients together . In summary : do n't bother . Just use good measuring techniques and stir your ingredients together well . No one likes a lump of baking powder lurking in a muffin !
Bread hydration varies widely . The " standard " bread using all-purpose ( plain ) flour has a ratio of water to flour weight ( hydration ) 60-65 % . Flour with a higher protein level , labelled as bread , strong , or high-gluten , tend to use 65 % hydration . Ciabatta and rustic breads generally use more water than normal . The extra water gives them more large , uneven holes in the interior of the bread ( called the crumb ) , and generally leads to a higher-rising bread . These wetter doughs are often referred to as " slack " doughs in baker 's parlance . Here are a couple sample hydrations from Hammelman 's bread baking : Baguettes with poolish , 66 % hydration , all bread flour Ciabatta , 73 % hydration , all bread flour Pain Rustique ( rustic bread ) , 69 % hydration , all bread flour Country Bread , 68 % hydration , all bread flour Roasted Potato bread , 61 % hydration , 85 % bread flour / 15 % whole wheat flour / 25 % roasted potatoes Whole wheat bread , 68 % hydration , 50/50 whole wheat and bread flour Semolina ( Durum ) bread , 62 % hydration , 50/50 durum and bread flours Mind you , it is quite possible to make a bread with even higher water content , if one is a skilled baker . Wetter breads ( 70 % hydration and up ) generally can not be hand-kneaded normally , and require a mechanical mixer , stretch-and-fold kneading with a spatula , or autolysis . Autolysis is when you mix water and flour before adding yeast , and then allow it to sit . This allows enzymes in the flour to develop gluten before the rising begins , and can supplement or replace normal kneading . Another approach , called double-hydration , is to add only part of the water before kneading . This allows you to knead the bread to develop gluten structure before it becomes too wet to knead . For extremely wet breads , these methods may all be combined . I 'm looking right now at a double-hydration , mechanically mixed , autolyzed , poolish-using ciabatta recipe that sits at 76 % hydration .
It sounds to me like you are making your pudding almost as thick as it should be . It should be able to stand up a little . In other words , if you spoon some into a desert cup or small bowl , it should make a pile . It should n't be solid like ice cream , it should be smooth , but still stay in a pile shape . Do you have custard where you live ? It should be similar to that in thickness . Though custard is very different from Chocolate pudding .
There actually does n't seem to be a special word for this as a technique - as common as it is ( to add an egg to the top of a dish and use the runny yolk as sauce ) , it is usually just the dish name " topped with an egg " or " topped with a fried egg " . Sometimes the egg is fried , occasioanlly poached , sometimes it is cracked on top of the dish and cooked in the residual heat - the goal of having the yolk serve as sauce remains the same , though . Some dish variations specify the egg on top - in some south American countries , a steak topped with an egg is called a " <URL> " or riding steak . I have heard of pancakes topped with a fried egg being called a " texas one-eye " , though i ca n't find a citation just now . Pasta with a raw egg added , which is supposed to be cooked in the residual heat and make a sauce of the yolk - is pasta " <URL> " . Its a little funny , but as common as it is to find a dish with topped with an egg , so the yolk will double as sauce - it does n't seem to have a name more specific . ( And it is really common , all sorts of cultures have <URL> ) . You can say " topped with an egg " , or use ElendilTheTall or ESultanik 's suggestions for how to specify the soft-cooked nature of the fried egg , and people will probably understand you . Edit : with the help of some comments from Andrew Mattson , Relaxed , and Chuu , we now have a potential term : steak " Au Cheval " ( French ) or beef " a cavalo " ( south American ) means a steak with an egg on top . The words look similar-ish enough to seem related in word appearance and meaning , yet from two different countries - which translate the term to horse riding or horseback steak , meaning the egg is on top of the dish . So with that commonality , we might take the term " Au Cheval " and take it to mean when an egg is laid on top of , or " riding " the dish . As a term it wo n't be too well known right now , someone may not be understood if you just ask for a sandwich or veggie hash " au cheval " ... but if enough people see this definition , or start using it , it may become the official term for the cooking technique !
In southwest of France , we serve confit with " pommes sarladaises " , which are more or less fries cooked in duck fat in a pan . There is also garlic and parsley . You can use confit in " cassoulet " as well . This is something like chili con carne with white beans instead of red ones , onion , carrot , tomato , garlic ( and many other secrets which change from home to home ) . EDIT : A variant of " pommes de terre sarladaises " includes mushrooms , in particular " cèpes " ( <URL> ) together with potatoes .
Kenji over at Serious Eats gives some of the best " pizza science " lessons on the Internet . Here 's a good article on the role of yeast and fermentation in pizza dough : <URL> In short , time and kneading cause proteins in dough to form an elastic network of fibers called gluten . Yeast consumes starch and emits carbon dioxide . Gluten traps the carbon dioxide which causes the dough to expand or " rise " . The amount of yeast and time may vary based on the intent of the cook . More time allows the cook to use less yeast ( the yeast organisms will multiply ) and allows for a greater development of the proteins in the wheat flour . A longer , slower rise will allow for the greatest flavor to be developed . In his tests , Kenji found the optimum rise time to be 2-3 days in a refrigerator . However , this must be balanced against the cook 's desire for an expedient dinner :-) In my personal pizza cooking , I usually use 1 packet of yeast ( 2.25 tsp ) for approximately 13 cups of flour . I will typically allow this to rise for around 24 hours on my kitchen counter-top ( my house says cold at around 55-60degF ) . If the dough will not be used right away , I will put it in the fridge but will allow it to warm to room temperature for several hours before cooking it . Good luck with your pies !
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
It is simply to add tartness to add some balance against the sugar . The water from the vinegar will evaporate and leave behind acetic acid . There is an old fashioned type of hard candy known as <URL> . Your lollipop is essentially just that candy on a stick .
There is a possible case that the butter is n't old . McGee writes that butter made from unpasteurized cream should be eaten within 10 days , else its unique aroma is lost . Maybe the addition of salt and/or other preservatives stretch that to over 20 days , or the manufacturer is being optimistic . On the other hand , even if the butter is old , there is no need for concern . Butter does n't catch germs or molds . It can go rancid , but this is a chemical change , which happens slowly . The affected parts are visible , and after removing them , there is no problem with the remaining butter - this is no invisible penetration as with mold . The butter must get really old ( maybe > 6 months ) to get small pockets of rancidity on the inside which are too much trouble to remove . And even if they are n't removed properly , eating small amounts of rancid butter is n't a health concern ( although the taste is ruined ) . Butter also does n't undergo signinficant changes when it ages - it is n't like eggs , which are good to eat for weeks , but behave differently when fresh . So eating old butter is n't worse than eating fresh butter ( with the exception of the raw-cream butter mentioned above ) . For these reasons , I would n't worry about the butter . Unless it was sold as raw cream butter , it is probably old stock . But it is still good to eat , and will be good to eat well past its stamped date . If it should develop an oxidized layer on the outside , just cutting it away will be good enough .
True chocolate , made with cocoa butter , especially of the non-milk variety has a very long shelf life when stored in dry , cool conditions . The fact that the shape is a chip rather than a bar or disc or callet is not really relevant , except for the total surface area on which <URL> can occur . Chocolate is very , very dry , which discourages mold , bacteria , or other micro-flora or micro-fauna from growing , not even counting the preserving effect of theobromine and other alkali in the chocolate . It also resists rancidity very well . Stored properly , it can last for many years safely . Many brands of chocolate chips are not true chocolate , because the manufacturer may have used less expensive fats than cocoa butter , which do not have such excellent storage properties . Assuming you have a quality chocolate chip made from real chocolate , the issues you may find include : Sugar bloom , where the sugar comes to the surface due to moisture dissolving it and then leaving it on the surface when it evaporates Fat bloom , where the cocoa butter separates out onto the surface for reasons not thoroughly understood The chocolate can lose its temper from warming and cooling cycles , if it gets too warm ; this will change its texture to softer , more gritty , and less pleasant The cocoa butter could go rancid ( which I have never experienced ) The first three are aesthetic and cosmetic issues , but the chocolate can still be used in recipes or melted down and re-tempered . Having it go rancid would be cause to throw it out -- but chocolate is very hardy , and resists rancidity -- so if it tastes fine , it is still usable . After two years , you are quite likely to have experienced bloom . The chips will look like they have a white coating , and may feel gritty . While this makes it less pleasant to eat out of hand or in applications where it wo n't be melted down , it will still perform well in recipes where it is melted . They are certainly safe to eat ( again , assuming real chocolate , and no rancidity ) , but they may not have the same pleasant texture and crispness that you would expect . This is why manufacturer 's give them a best by date . Note : you can tell whether they are real chocolate by the ingredient list ( at least in the US , and other places with comparable labeling laws ) . Real chocolate will consist of : Cocoa solids , cocoa , cocoa mass , cocoa butter , cocoa nib , or chocolate liqueur ( all words indicating products of the cocoa bean ) Sugar Flavoring ( such as vanilla or salt ) Perhaps lecithin as an emulsifier Signs that the product is not real chocolate include other ingredients , especially other fats in lieu of cocoa butter ( which is comparatively expensive , and marketable to the cosmetics industry ) . Milk chocolate , which also contains milk solids and milk fat will not last as long , but still probably has a shelf life measured in years when stored under proper ( cool , dry ) conditions . White chocolate chips do not have the additional preservative effects of the cocoa solids and their alkali , and also have dairy solids and possibly milk fat , so they have the shortest shelf life of all . It also tends to pick up off flavors if not in a perfectly sealed , air tight container . White chocolate , I would not keep more than year or so . Of course , chips that are made from other ingredients than true chocolate are going to have a shelf life based on their ingredients , but I can not speak to that , and anyway , in my mind , they are not worth storing . See also : <URL>
Yes , it depends on brand , humidity , etc. . My local variety is 1:4 to 1:4.5 ( polenta : water ) to get to that softness level Add nothing else until you have the polenta at the desired consistency and softness
Oh yes . Different people use different categories , no one system is canon , but this bit from <URL> is helpful ; I would n't hesitate to substitute within these categories . Dark and oil rich : anchovies , bluefin tuna , grey mullet , herring , mackerel ( Atlantic , Boston , or King ) , Salmon , farmed or King ( Chinook ) , sardines , skipjack tuna White , lean , and firm : Alaska pollock , catfish , grouper , haddock , Pacific cod , Pacific halibut , Pacific rockfish , Pacific sand dab &amp; sole , striped bass ( wild and hybrid ) , swordfish Medium color and oil rich : amberjack , Arctic char , Coho salmon , Hawaiian kampachi , mahimahi , paddlefish , pompano , Sockeye Salmon , wahoo , yellowfin tuna White , lean , and flaky : Atlantic croaker , black sea bass , branzino , flounder , rainbow smelt , red snapper , tilapia , rainbow trout , weakfish ( sea trout ) , whiting White , firm , and oil rich : Atlantic shad , albacore tuna , California white sea bass , Chilean sea bass , cobia , lake trout , lake whitefish , Pacific escolar , Pacific sablefish , white sturgeon You mention that you have successfully substituted halibut or tilapia for cod . This list puts tilapia in a different category than the other two . That illustrates that fish species substitution is a fuzzy thing , and a cook should n't feel bound by any list . Even within categories , any change in the choice of fish is going to change the final taste of the dish , either slightly or dramatically . That is n't necessarily a bad thing , in fact it can be a very good thing . Just as an aside , sustainability is a very good reason to substitute one species within a category for another . In the US these are to good sites to help choose a species : <URL> ; <URL> If anyone knows of good sites that provide good information about other parts of the world , please leave a comment . From leon , 2 good sites to help make sustainable choices in Australia : <URL> or <URL>
The resultant cheese in your first link will be a fresh , soft cheese , nothing like either of the Parmesan or cheddar cheeses mentioned in your second link . It is also an acid-based cheese , not a made with either rennet or bacterial cultures as are most other cheeses . Parmesan is a very long aged cheese . Cheddar is a. . . well ... cheddared cheese ( cheddaring is a process which reduces the moisture content of the curds ) that is then aged for varying periods of time . The fresh cheese in your first link will not serve you well in the same roles as either Parmesan or Cheddar . While I realize these products may not be available easily where you live , they are very distinctive and hard to substitute for with homemade products -- they just also not the kind of cheese that is normally made at home . The home made cheese described is most similar to an unaged feta ( although not goat 's milk ) , or a Mexican queso fresco .
I think you are confusing a lot of things here . First , you apply a to the food . Second , the cooking technique causes a lot of to happen within the food . Third , the cooked food causes in your head . I once explained the difference between cooking techniques and physical processes in <URL> , so wo n't repeat it . That being said , I do n't think a word for your situation exists , on any of the three levels . The word for the cooking technique you used is simply " slow roasting " . There were many different physical processes going on in the meat , including protein denaturation , collagen converting to gelatine , caramelization of sugars , maillard reaction between proteins and sugars , and so on . And then you ended up with a smell of slow roasted pork , which is a perception . None of these words describe your situation unambiguously . Had you used a different recipe for roasting the pork , it would still have been " slow roasting " , but it would have smelled differently . None of the physical processes is by itself responsible for the smell . It 's the combination of them , and with the unique parameters they happened to have , which produced exactly this smell . And the smell itself does n't have a name either . The olfactory sense of humans is incredibly complex . We can sense 5000 different substances , some of us can sense substances others ca n't , and they all produce a different sensation in different combinations and concentrations . We do n't have the words for every possible smell in the world , neither do we have the capacity to remember or distinguish them all . So , language has no better word for " the smell of slow roasted pork with apple juice glaze " than this descriptive phrase . Whoever has smelled it , might remember it . Whoever has n't , probably wo n't be able to imagine it even from the description . You are welcome to describe the smell any way you want , and you are correct to tell the people that your technique was " roasting " . The fact that they wo n't be able to perfectly picture the exact sensation of your food is just an everyday thing in human communication .
It Depends . First off , by ' goes bad ' I 'm assuming you mean both ' stale and unpalatable ' and ' moldy and not food-safe ' . And for both of those , it 's going to greatly depend on what ingredient , what you 're making , and how you 're making it . In the case of tomatoes , if you take your batch of ' last-legs ' tomatoes ( and I 'm assuming you mean there 's almost an unsafe level of bacterial/mold growth on them ) , and thoroughly cook them into a sauce , i.e. bring to a boil for an extended amount of time , you 'll ( hopefully ) kill of the microbes , and inactivate the toxins created by those bacteria , you will have a generally safe-to-eat sauce . Compared with a similarly cooked sauce from fresher tomatoes , it will probably get moldy at roughly the same average rate . However , it will probably taste worse . The ' last-legs ' sauce will get to unpalatable faster than the fresh one . Generally , if you 're able to cook something thoroughly , you 'll generally ' reset ' the microbe growth timeline back to the starting-point . With meat , however , you usually do n't want to cook it to the point of sterility . ( If you do n't believe me , boil a steak for an hour . Then try to eat it . ) So if you have a last-legs steak , I would n't cook it , then store it for a week in the fridge . Making a stew might be a good move , however .
Okay , I 'm going to partially answer the initial question / title , as the pairing really is n't what knife for what food , but what knife for what type of cutting . And I say partially answer , as there are a lot of types of knives ... I 'm only going to list the more common knives , as the <URL> . This is only the tip of the iceburg . I 'm making this answer community wiki , if people want to add knives , or details of anything I listed . ( although , if you want to organize it by use ( eg , chopping/slicing/paring / etc , it might be better to move that to a separate answer , or this is going to get way too long ) Chef 's knife -- has a large-ish blade ( generally 8 " or longer , ~ 2 " high near the bolster ) , with a convex curve that 's more dramatic near the tip . Its characteristic use is to keep the tip on the cutting board , and rock the handle down ( preferably using the weight of the blade ) to slice through things . Paring knife -- a smaller knife ( ~ 3-4 " long ) , used for paring . ( cutting in the hand ; peeling , stuff that does n't require a cutting board ) . The blade may be concave ( bird 's beak ) , straight ( sheep 's foot ) or convex ( spear point ) . Slicer -- a long ( ~ 10 " or longer ) , straight , thin knife , used for slicing large items ( eg , meats ) Bread knife -- a long ( ~ 8 " + ) serrated knife , used for slicing bread . Boning / Fillet knife -- a thin , flexible blade , used for cutting between joints and stripping meat from carcasses . Meat cleaver -- a thick , wide ( often 4 " + tall ) knife , used for hacking through bones or frozen items . Vegetable cleaver / Chinese cleaver : a sharp , thin , smaller cleaver , used for delicate work that should never be used for cutting through bones . Santoku -- cleaver-like in a design , but has a slight convex blade and closer in scale to a small chef 's knife ( 5 to 7 " long , about 1.5 " tall ) . Good for general use . Utility knife / tomato knife -- mid-sized ( ~ 5-6 " long ) , serated knife . Good for when you need a small serated knife , such as um ... tomatoes . And works pretty well for cutting medium firm cheeses . Cheese knives -- um ... <URL> Steak knives -- mid-sized knives to be used at the dinner table , that are either very , very sharp , or serated . Table / dinner knife -- the basic sort of knife as part of a table setting Butter knife -- a short , dull knife , possibly offset , used for spreading butter or things of a similar consistency . And not knives , but related : Kitchen shears -- look like your general run-of-the-mill scissors , although the good ones come apart so they can be cleaned easily . Poultry shears -- heavier duty , often spring loaded ... look more like pruning sheers ( that you 'd just for trimming down a rose bush ) . They have a notch in one of the blades near the pivot point so that you can cut through a bone without it slipping . Ideal for cutting the backbone out of a chicken . Bench knife / scraper -- a wide , dull piece of metal with a handle along one edge . It 's used for dividing dough , scraping down your work surface ( bench ) , but can also be used to scoop up stuff to transfer to another location ( eg , dump in a pot ) Pizza cutter -- a circular blade attached to some sort of a handle ( which might be more like a shroud ) . Can be used for lots more than just pizza , though . Great for cutting thin , but large objects . ( eg , cutting breadsticks , trimming filo , puff pastry or other rolled out dough , etc. ) Vegetable peeler -- a handle with a swiveling sort of blade on it , but where the cutting edge is along a slit in the middle . You have standard peelers , and ' Y ' peelers . Normally smooth blades , but may be serrated . Good for peeling the skin off items , cutting vegetables into ribbons , or shaving chocolate . Mandoline -- a blade fixed on a planar surface . Used to make thin slices of a consistent thickness by moving the food against the blade .
I 've been using a Toddy for about two years now . I have found that you can get a plenty strong concentrate with only 1/2 pound of freshly ground coffee steeped in filtered water ( like in a Brita ) for just short of 18 hours . Beyond 18 hours the grounds become waterlogged and the same elements that produce the bitterness found in hot brewed coffee start to come out . 12 hours , though , is barely enough to get the flavor out . At only one or two hours , I ca n't imagine that there would be much flavor at all . If you use a Toddy , you will find that using a finer ground will result a very cumbersome , frustrating draining process and/or sediment in your concentrate . As to the caffeine , I believe you will find that the matter is undecided . Someone needs to conduct an experiment with well defined parameters to really figure it out .
The best is the <URL> If you ca n't find that flour locally , there are sellers online . I find a mix of bread flour &amp; semolina works very well too . This is my favourite pizza dough recipe : <URL>
end question
start question
How Long Is Mint-Infused Water Safe to Drink ?
I recently asked this question to my dietitian friend at work , and she advised fruit/herbs last about 3 to 5 days in water in the fridge before becoming soft and mushy . If your mint leaf still looks nice and pretty , you are most likely OK . She also recommended a website to me : www.infusedwaters.com/faq for recipes and advise .
In the US , commercial jerky is inspected by the Food Safety and Inspection Service help ensure safety . See the <URL> for detailed information on commercial jerky preparation methods , which must include a " lethality " step based on heat , acidity , or other means to ensure pathogens are killed . They may also use more sophisticated methods to ensure proper drying . Googling " <URL> " will yield a wealth of University Extension results based on FDA research , providing specific recipes for safely creating jerky at home . Traditional methods ( soaking in brine , then drying ) are not sufficient to kill all pathogens ( not just parasites ) . The FDA now recommends the the " hot pickle cure " method as the most effective way of creating safe jerky . See for example the recipe published <URL> . In summary : Treat the meat carefully prior to jerking , using proper refrigeration and so on . Prepare a brine of the proper strength , and bring it to a boil . Dip the jerky pieces into the boiling brine long enough for them to turn grey . Dry in a temperature controlled dehydrator , checking for sufficient drying ( the meat should crack when bent ) .
Yes ! Cooking with extreme heat is the killer of nutrients in vegetables . Therefore in traditional stir frying , timing is important . The goal is to coat all the vegetables with oil and searing their outer surface and not allowing the heat to transfer into the core of the vegetables . I personally do not like to cook with that kind of a heat , it is just too violent . Instead , I let the vegetable to stay in room temperature and cook them with medium heat , in a regular non-stick pan . However , I stop cooking them while they are still firm , lightly golden and vibrant .
You will be fine . As the chicken softens , and with a bit of a stir , it will all get cooked . the steam and conductive heat will cook and keep safe even the minuscule portion above the water line .
I probably would not recommend eating a box of baking soda and chasing that with shots of vinegar . But aside from that silliness , I ca n't think of a single thing that is actual " food " that is unsafe mixed with another actual " food " , assuming reasonable quantities . Certainly anything with alcohol can be dangerous in huge quantities , as can a lot of other ingredients . Allergies or food sensitivities can make certain ingredients dangerous to certain people . But mixing ingredients to which the individual has no special sensitivity and in normal quantities ? No , I do n't think you are risking anything by doing so other than unpleasant food .
I discussed a similar subject in this question : <URL> Raw fish is n't safe to eat if it 's just been sitting around . However , the raw fish used in sushi/sashimi has been frozen ( typically flash-frozen ) in order to kill any parasites , making it as safe as any other food . Most distributors of sashimi also have their own methods and internal regulations to ensure food safety , but specifics are understandably hard to come by . Suffice it to say , it 's far safer to eat properly-prepared nigiri or sashimi than it is to eat an undercooked hamburger .
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
The recipe appears to be close to a standard Summer Pickle recipe . It 's about a 9 % brine with 3.75 % acetic acid , which should effectively discourage human pathogens . It is not a fermented product . They 're meant to be refrigerated for at most a few months , not stored on some dusty basement shelf . Refrigerated properly , I 'd eat them without concern .
According to <URL> article , game birds including pheasant should be cooked to an internal temperature as follows : Whole 82 ° C ( 180 ° F ) Breasts and roasts 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Thighs , wings 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Stuffing ( cooked alone or in bird ) 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) These temperatures will be decidedly not pink ( except possibly around the bones ) , but will maximize the safety of eating game .
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
Adding your pasta to cold water before boiling it may help . You will need to stir more often overall , but the shells wo n't initially stick together as soon as you add them to the water , and then you can stir to prevent the sticking as they become softer . <URL> wrote this : I prefer starting with cold water , because the noodles do n't stick together at all as they go into the pot , and because I do n't notice a difference in flavor once they 're drained and sauced . As Jefromi said , what happens is that the starch on the noodles gets rinsed off in the water before it can gelatinize and stick to everything . So you will have to stir even before the water gets warm .
Taken out of context , that does n't make much sense , but I can think of several similar claims you might have heard - all of which are true and most can be found on the <URL> and the sites of most other agencies : Perishable food should not be left in the " danger zone " ( 4.4 ° C - 60 ° C or 40 ° F to 140 ° F ) ( room temperature ) for more than a total of 2 hours ; 1 hour if the temperature is above 32 ° C / 90 ° F ( mouth/gut temperature ) . Freezing does not reset this countdown , it only stops it temporarily . Thus , it is not a safe practice to thaw and refreeze food several times ( especially if it 's being brought above refrigerator temperatures ) . Cooking does reset the countdown , but unless you are in a completely sterile environment ( hint : you are n't ) , you still have to keep food out of the danger zone after cooking , which is why guidelines say to refrigerate within 2 hours . Most people reheat their food to " warm " or even " hot " but not cooking temperature . Unless you reheat to an internal temperature of 74 ° C / 165 ° F , then all that time in the danger zone after cooking is cumulative . So if you do what most people do and reheat food to 40 ° -50 ° C , a nice comfortable eating temperature , then you 'd better either ( a ) only reheat the portion you plan to eat , and/or ( b ) throw out any uneaten portion instead of putting it back in the fridge . Really it 's all about the cumulative amount of time , since being fully cooked , that the food has spent in the danger zone . Theoretically , if you boiled the same piece of chicken every 12 hours and quick-froze it immediately afterward , it would stay safe indefinitely . It would also have no flavour or texture left , so I do n't recommend it . Since most people do n't carefully measure the internal temperature of food when they reheat it , we have the " best practice " of only reheating perishable food once after it 's been cooked , because otherwise it gets really hard to estimate how much time is left on that metaphorical clock . And , obviously , do n't leave it in the fridge for more than a few days , because it can still spoil in there , just slower .
This depends on a lot of things . The idea of preheating is that you want to get all the surfaces inside your oven ( walls , floor , door , racks ) up to the desired cooking temperature . This makes for more even temperatures throughout the oven , and gives a little thermal mass so you do n't lose ALL your heat when you open the door for a few seconds or put something cold in there . Then there 's the question of what you 're putting in the oven . An aluminum sheet with a few room temperature cookies on it wo n't pull the temperature in the oven down like a 25 pound turkey that 's 40F/5C inside . You want to be more careful to do a complete preheat if you 're going to be soaking up a lot of your starting heat . Our oven , which has a large baking stone in the bottom all the time , takes a while to get uniformly up to temperature , even after the oven says it 's preheated , because the stone does n't heat up as fast as the rest of the surfaces . It takes at least 20 minutes after the " I 'm fully heated " beep before the stone is fully up to temp . We have problems with things baking poorly if we do n't preheat for quite a while , but on the upside , if we put a cold roast in or open the door a lot , the temperature in the oven stays pretty high . If your oven is lightweight , flimsy or drafty , it may be as hot as it 's going to get the moment the preheat alert goes off . 45 minutes is probably a lot more preheat than you 'll need in almost any case . In some cases even 15 minutes is more than you need . It really depends on your oven and what you 're putting in .
According to ( US ) <URL> : ( c ) In accordance with § 184.1 ( b ) ( 1 ) , the ingredient is used in food with no limitations other than current good manufacturing practice . ( d ) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived . Basically , you can eat the stuff by the spoon-full if you can stand the sour . If you 're adding a lot compared to how much you think you should have to add , you might consider Phosphoric acid instead . You get a little <URL> with that , and it too , within limits , is generally regarded as safe ( GRAS ) .
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
This question was answered to some extent in another <URL> . This answer , which is basically just a link to <URL> , dispels a number of myths about cooking pasta . For instance : Water will return to a boil in the same amount of time regardless of how much is in the pot prior to pasta being added . Pasta wo n't get sticky with smaller amounts of water . It only gets sticky because of reactions in the first few minutes of cooking , and the solution is to stir it . This is necessary even with lots of water . You do not need a lot of water to cook pasta . Water does not need to be boiling to cook pasta . It simply needs to be <URL> . Some really interesting stuff in the article that debunks quite a lot of kitchen lore about cooking pasta . I have tried this at home with great success . So in answer to your specific question : No , you do not need a lot of water , it simply has to cover the pasta . The amount of salt is heavily dependent on the amount of pasta , the amount of water , and your own taste . You need to find a consistent way to cook pasta and then experiment .
Pasteurized milk is the standard way milk is sold in industrialized countries . How it 's packaged can depend on the country but it 's perfectly safe to drink provided it 's consumed by the " use by " date . <URL> : Pasteurization ( American English ) or pasteurisation ( British English ) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century . In 1864 Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine just enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage prevented these beverages from turning sour . This was achieved by eliminating pathogenic microbes and lowering microbial numbers to prolong the quality of the beverage . Today the process of pasteurization is used widely in the dairy and food industries for microbial control and preservation of the food we consume . Pasteurization is the reason for milk 's extended shelf life . High-temperature , short-time ( HTST ) pasteurized milk typically has a refrigerated shelf life of two to three weeks , whereas ultra-pasteurized milk can last much longer , sometimes two to three months . When ultra-heat treatment ( UHT ) is combined with sterile handling and container technology ( such as aseptic packaging ) , it can even be stored unrefrigerated for up to 9 months . This means that most of the microbes in the milk are killed and the milk is perfectly safe to drink right out of the carton . In fact , there are many jokes in the US about chastising teenage boys and young men about drinking directly from the carton/jug of milk . Milk in the US is regularly consumed direct from the gallon jug , see the note under Vitamin D that says " Pasteurized &amp; Homogenized " : Milk in Europe is often in <URL> cartons which do n't have to be stored in the fridge until opened and generally have a longer shelf life due to the UHT handling ( see definition above ) :
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
end question
start question
Should I leave the peel in citrus sugar ?
I would leave the peel in . It can continue to improve the flavor , and makes it look like citrus sugar instead of just plain sugar ( important for a gift ) . Be sure to include a note that it should be used within a few weeks , though .
For 12 ounces of cranberries , use about 1 cup of sugar . You may like to use part brown sugar . Lemon juice , orange juice , or zest of either are welcome additions . There is no absolutely standard American version ; like anything else , every cook has their own variation .
By far the easiest method is to use a pan of hot water and a bowl of ice water . Essentially , bring a pan of water ( enough water to cover the peach to a boil . Meanwhile , with a sharp knife , make a small ' X ' shaped incision in the top and bottom of each peach . When the water is boiling gently place a few of the peaches into the water and simmer for around 20 seconds , just until the skin can be seen coming away . At this point use a slotted spoon to remove the fruit from the boiling water and place them in the ice water . After 20 or 30 seconds you should be able to remove the skin with your fingers . The same technique is used with tomatoes
The clumps come from too much liquid on the glass when applying the sugar . The way I learned to salt a glass was to dip the glass upside-down in a shallow plate or bowl of water , let it drip for 5-10 seconds , then dip it into an evenly layered plate of salt . I think this should work for sugaring a glass .
That 's fine . A lot of people actually do that on purpose , it 's referred to as " soaking " . It will shave a bit off the cooking time and wo n't negatively affect the rice at all . Give it a stir before you start cooking . You can drain and rinse it too if you want , that will give you very separate , distinct grains . Use about 1/4 less water for cooking if you do it that way , because the rice will have soaked up some water .
I suspect " warm " is meant to maintain temperature , rather than raise it . My crock pots are too ancient to have anything other than " high " and " low " , so I ca n't assert any real authority . However , if you reach 145F within the first hour at the highest setting , then keep it at " warm " , and test the temperature after about 30 minutes with an instant-read thermometer and it stays around 140-160F , you 'll probably be fine . Personally , I 'd test the temperature first by cooking water . If the temperature stays above 140F at low , the worst risk you 'll have is overcooking . Beans and vegetables like carrots and celery can overcook fairly easily in a crock pot , but higher collagen meats meant for stews tend to be fine when cooked for extended periods . Most crock pot recipes for stews and soups usually hold fine when at low for a full workday , although that 's presuming a somewhat 70s-era soup aesthetic , which is probable for a crockpot recipe . However , I would be inclined to attempt the recipe using the low setting rather than reducing it to warm , if you 're not going to test the temperature first . If it turns out to be overcooked , you can always puree the ingredients with a blender ... I also doubt that switching to " warm " would be dramatically less likely to overcook the food than " low " , unless it holds at a pretty stable 140F , and low ends up somewhere around 160F .
You can be quite free with your sugar amount , depending on what you want to achieve . I would say that as a rule of thumb , you do n't want to create too great a contrast between your sauce and your other components . So , if you are using it for dipping fruit , you can use less sugar than usual , else the fruit will be perceived as too sour . For a rich torte , you can go up with the sugar . As for the normal range , it can start at zero , but this is very unusual for sweet applications . The upper bound is given by foaming : you ca n't whip cream well if it has less than 30 % fat . ( This number is for pure raw cream , and varies even there , depending on factors like cow breed . It can be slightly higher or lower depending on cream treatment - pasteurization etc. - and the amount of stabilizers usually added to whipping cream ) . So , if you start with a cream which has 35 % fat , you should n't add more than 16.7 g sugar per 100 g cream ( 40 g sugar per 250 ml ) . Else your texture will suffer . You also ask for a standard amount . This will vary regionally . The Professional Chef recommends 57 g of sugar per 454 g ( a pound ) of cream , which translates to 12.5 g per 100 g , or 30 g per 250 ml . This is an American book , and I have found that using 2/3 to 1/2 of the recommended amount in most American recipes results in good-tasting sweets , whereas the original amount often produces oversweetened dishes . This would be my guideline for a standard amount too . You can adjust it to your own taste . On a side note , The Professional Chef insists that it whips best if the sugar is sprinkled in after you have achieved soft peaks . I have n't done it this way , but it is worth a try .
For baking potatoes Do n't just wash them , scrub them . Otherwise you 're eating dirt . No , that 's not a joke . Potatoes grow in dirt , and are usually sold coated with dirt . Yes , really . Either salt them and wrap them in tin-foil , or simply bake them on a bed of salt . Dessication of the skin is important . You 'll probably want to bake them longer and higher than most recipes say . I find 425F for 1 1/2 hours is optimal ( and 2 hours is fine ) . That results in skin which is dry , crispy , and slightly caramelized , while this inside still is fluffy ( albeit , according to some , overcooked ) .
It does n't really matter . A lot of people cook them with peel still on and peel it with their hands when cooked ( Careful , hot ! ) . You can peel them before you cook them , and then it 's just a question of taste I 'd say . Personally , I would peel off the white as well , though I 'm not sure about this .
I 'll assume that you 're talking about pure maple syrup in a glass container ; if it 's that adulterated pancake syrup then it 's probably riddled with preservatives , so any advice here does n't apply . Pure maple syrup can and will grow mold on the surface if left in a cupboard . There are <URL> of this happening , and although several of those people say that it 's OK to simply strain the mold and re-boil the maple syrup , ( a ) I would n't chance it , and ( b ) that process is hardly any more convenient than simply taking it out of the refrigerator a half-hour earlier and letting it come up to room temperature . Maple syrup should be stored in the refrigerator . It does n't have to be , and it will probably take at least a year for it to grow any mold if left in the pantry . But it will last longer in the refrigerator ; I 've seen refrigerated jars 3 + years old without any mold .
Good question ! Corn is very versatile . I 've found that fresh and frozen whole kernel corn are very interchangeable when used in casseroles . Most casseroles cook long enough that you could use either without making any adjustments . However , canned corn is a different animal . Because it is more processed I would use it in recipes that call for it but I would not consider it a substitute for fresh or frozen .
You do get some reflection of microwaves off a glass or plastic cover ( <URL> ) Do n't use metal lids . Neither glass nor Plexiglass plastic absorb much of the beam . The question then becomes : Does reflection off a lid slow heating more than retaining heat in an enclosed vessel speeds it ? Anecdotal , but experience tells me that using a plate over a bowl or a casserole dish cover routinely gives hotter , more uniformly heated food . Probably true for plastic wrap too , but I do n't use that in a microwave since I had a piece of it melt on me .
Upon addition of sugar to the superheated coffee , the formation of bubbles ( phase transformation ) occurs because the fine particles of sugar provide sites for the <URL> of gas from the liquid . When the introduction of a fine inoculant ( such as sugar particles ) results in sudden fizzing of a liquid , it is an indication that there has been minor superheating of that substance . Superheating tends to occur more in microwaves than on stovetops because people use metal saucepans/kettles on the stove , while generally using glass or glazed ceramic containers when heating a volume of water in a microwave oven . When water is heated in a glass or glazed ceramic container rather than a metal one , the very hard surface of the container means that there are few scratches on it to act as sites for the heterogeneous nucleation of gas . Fewer heterogeneous nucleation sites means less heat loss through the transformation of liquid to gas . <URL> also makes a good point about the tendency for stovetop heating to cause localised superheating in the vicinity of the container walls ... However , I think that this would tend to cause more boiling due to localised heating to the point that homogenous nucleation can occur ( with the homogeneously nucleated bubbles then acting as further heterogenous nucleations sites ) -- not because of stirring of the water . With regard to why your bubbles remained present for the duration of drinking , I would hypothesise that this perhaps has something to do with the oils in the crema of the coffee , and/or reaction of the dissolved sugar to form something that increases the surface tension of the water . ( Not sure what you would call the opposite of a <URL> effect ) . A final thing I would like to mention is that ( as indicated on the <URL> page ) , microwaving liquids has the potential to result in violent reaction , or even explosion , of the liquid -- in other words , you are risking serious burn injuries by taking a shortcut to heat it up . Adding a powder ( like sugar or instant coffee ) to superheated water is particularly bad because in doing so , you are introducing millions of nucleation sites at once . That said , you should also be aware that since gas bubbles themselves promote heterogeneous nucleation , simply placing a spoon in the cup can be enough to cause an ' explosion ' . If you really need to microwave a liquid , ( e.g. , if you are cooking something ) , consider heating it in a microwave-safe plastic container that has been washed a few times ( and is therefore abraded on the inside ) . You should also stop the microwave to check the temperature of the liquid at regular intervals , rather than nuking the fluid for an excessively long time .
The easiest way is just like this . <URL> but with broken yolks and more time . This pan would would be perfect if it had a lid that fits , but this lid will be do the trick . Your pan should be non-stick with sloping sides , 8 " is perfect for 2 eggs , but larger is fine too . I set the heat to one click below medium [ YMMV * ] , and give the burner and pan a good 2 minutes to heat up . Add the butter and let it reach the point that it stops sizzling . When the butter stops sizzling , add the eggs . To keep track for this answer , I set my timer at this point . Let them cook uncovered until the bottom is opaque , about 1 minute . Add about 1 tablespoon of water and cover . So far everything is just like the prior answer for sunny side up eggs . Let the eggs steam until they start to get a bit of white on top , about 1 more minute . Now poke the yolks and use a spoon to baste the top of the eggs with hot butter , replace the lid . Let them cook until they are as hard as you like them . Mine looked just about done at 3.5 minutes . Had I just let them cook one more minute , covered , they would have been fine and ready to plate . You do n't need to flip . If you do choose to flip , do n't do it until they eggs are very close to being done . You can use a spatula if you like , but I much prefer the pan-flip . He demonstrates it here at 3:05 . <URL> Just be sure that your eggs are easily sliding around before you flip . The guy in the video makes it seem harder than it is . Since your yolks are already broken , it 's really super easy if you have a non-stick pan with sloping sides and plenty of butter . So I flipped at 3.5 minutes , then covered and let them go for 30 more seconds . Pro trick : before you plate the eggs , use a paper towel to wipe any extra butter out of the pan , then just tilt the eggs out of the pan onto the plate , that makes for a tidy presentation . I never touched a spatula to these eggs . * YMMV Your Mileage May Vary
It 's to prevent caking . See , for example , <URL> : It is not recommended to substitute confectioners sugar for granulated sugar . Since confectioners sugar has a much finer texture , and it contains a small percentage of cornstarch to prevent caking , substituting can give you unexpected results . Many shredded cheeses include corn starch for the same reason .
In general , unless the book or recipe specifically states something different , " salt " is assumed to mean " table salt " . If a recipe were to call for kosher salt or pretzel salt ( like as a topping for the loaves ) it would specifically call that out especially .
The exterior coating on an egg is known as the " cuticle " . It helps to protect the ( porous ) shell and minimize moisture loss , but it eventually breaks down as the chick matures and prepares to hatch . The reason that eggs in the US are typically sold under refrigeration is because they are washed with warm water and detergent to remove the large amount of bacteria that are deposited on the shell while being laid . Once the cuticle is removed the egg becomes more porous . Most bakeries that are using whole eggs will typically keep several flats out at all times to have them at room temperature . Eggs will store better and longer in the refrigerator but if being used frequently and fairly quickly , they can also be left at room temperature . Howard McGee in On Food &amp; Cooking says that egg quality deteriorates as much in one day at room temperature as it does four days under refrigeration .
Cold , it gives the inside more time to come up to the same temperature with the outside , for more even cooking .
Sugar has a few effects in bread : It helps make it soft and tender by absorbing some of the water and slowing down the formation of gluten strands . It feeds the yeast , resulting in a faster rise . Via caramelisation , it aids in the browning of the crust . It acts as a preservative , keeping the bread fresher for longer ( though 1tbsp probably does n't make a lot of difference ) . It does have some effect on the flavour .
I 've found a <URL> on Walmart.com that has some interesting tidbits . For functionality alone , looks like a glass jar should do the job well . Something like this would have an advantageous shape to make cookies easier to reach , and the jar less prone to falling . One feature you may want to look for specifically would be an hermetic sealing lid , which would help keep moisture in the jar and slow down the drying . Same kind of jar that is often used to store flour , sugar , coffee , beans , etc. . Is light sensitivity a factor ? I do n't think it would be , in most cases , unless you kept your cookies in an area that is heavily lit by the sun .
end question
start question
How does lemon juice " cook " meat ?
Let 's start with a definition of cooking . The Oxford English Dictionary defines to cook as : To prepare or make ready ( food ) ; to make fit for eating by due application of heat , as by boiling , baking , roasting , broiling , etc. . However , from a chemical point of view , what happens when you are cooking meat is that you are using heat , amongst other things , to <URL> the proteins of the meat . Denaturation can also be achieved by other means , such as marinating the meat in an acid , such as citric acid ( contain in lemon juice ) or acetic acid ( contained in vinegar ) . You can also use other agents to induce denaturation , but they are not always fit for eating . However , it is important to understand that from a purely cooking perspective the two things are not the same : " cooking " with lemon ( I guess it is fine to use the verb to cook as long as you put it in quotes ) , gives a completely different result than cooking with heat . This is because other chemical reactions happen during application of heat and because , obviously , you do not end up with an hot product !
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
Yes , cook the meat before stuffing into the ravioli . If you are worried about your mixture being too fatty ( which I did n't experience with a non-traditional beef and bacon ravioli ) , make sure to drain the meat well after cooking , perhaps patting it with clean paper towels to remove excess grease .
Fruit contains lots of water . When you take a piece of fruit at home and press it , you end up with sugars , vitamins and other solids dissolved in water . Let 's assume that 100 g of just-pressed juice has X g of water and 100-X g of juice . A manufacturer who sells juice can do several things . pasteurize the juice and sell it as-is . This is , and will often be labelled as " contains pulp " for citrus juices , or " naturally cloudy " for apple juice . filter the juice , then pasteurize and sell . This is again , sold as " clear " juice . Instead of just pasteurizing the juice , he may boil out Y g of water from the juice somewhere close to where the fruit is grown ( Y < X , trying to boil out enough water to get only the solids from the fruit will change the taste too much ) . This is called concentrate . It gets shipped to the packaging plant , where Y ml of pure water are added back before packaging . This is . The advantage from the manufacturer : he pays per weight for shipping between the juicing factory ( which can be somewhere in the tropics where fruit is cheap ) and the packaging plant ( which is close to where the customer lives ) . Not shipping tons of water saves lots of costs , and concentrate is less perishable than non-packaged juice . Water costs less than fruit juice . If a manufacturer adds 50 g water to 50 g fruit juice ( no matter whether from concentrate or not ) , this is a . Most customers expect a fruit juice to be sweet and slightly sour , so the manufacturer adds not just water , but water with sugar and acid in it ( mostly citric acid ) . A 96 % juice would be if the manufacturer adds only 4 g of water to 96 g of juice . as a final note , 100 % juice does not mean that the juice is only from the fruit given in the title . Apple and citrus juice is very cheap , but all other juices are expensive ( depending on area , there can be other cheap juices too ) . So , many manufacturers will sell 100 % juice which is in fact blended juice - if the package says " Sour cherry , 100 % juice " chances are that it is 25 % cherry juice and 75 % apple juice . Such combinations are given in fine print in the ingredients list , but AFAIK they are not legally required to list the exact ratio of juices used in a juice blend ( this will vary between legislations ) .
I 'm culling a lot of information from one of my <URL> for this one . Yes , limes have a slightly higher acid content ( on average ) than lemons do - about 6 % for limes , compared to 4.5 % for lemons . More importantly for their flavor , lemons have about 2 % total sugar , while limes have somewhere between 0.5 % and 0.75 % . Sugar/sweetness has quite a suppressive effect on the perception of sourness , so lemon juice will most likely taste a bit less sour than lime . The composition of acids in the two also differ . The acid in lemon juice is almost entirely <URL> , which also makes up most of the acid in limes . However , limes include about 10 % each of <URL> and <URL> which have an effect on their flavor . Malic acid is most recognizable as the sour flavor from tart apples and rhubarb . About succinic acid , Wikipedia states : It lends to fermented beverages such as wine and beer a common taste that is a combination of saltiness , bitterness and acidity . Personally , I think the difference is perceptible in beverages , but less so in cooking . Culturally , lime would most certainly be the traditional choice for Latin American cuisine . Lime is much more readily available in Central and South America ( three of the <URL> are located there ) . How the difference in acid content would contribute to the browning of avocados is more questionable . EDIT : Here 's <URL> , suggesting that <URL> ( vitamin C ) is more effective at preventing avocado browning than citric acid . Which is an interesting wrinkle , because lemons contain significantly more vitamin C than limes do ... EDIT 2 : And along comes Jolenealaska , with <URL> that seems to undermine the entire assumption that acid reduces browning of avocado at all ! Seems like the real secret may just be keeping your avocados either uncut , or refrigerated and tightly wrapped if you have to cut them ahead of service .
I have had the same issue when cooking lots of quesadillas , and have found the following combination of techniques to work quite well . The obvious answer has been hit upon already , lower the heat . But I think that 's missing an important aspect of the issue . What 's happening is most likely that you are turning on the heat and then cooking your first omelet before the pan has actually reached temperature . Depending on the type of pan , it can take up to 5 mins for the pan to reach temperature . So , as you continue to cook , the pan is getting closer to temperature . Of course , each time you add more cold egg , the temp decreases again . So your heat is too hot , but it does n't really become apparent until the last omelet . Rather than just starting at a lower temperature though , start at the same temp you tried and then turn down the temperature as you continue to cook . The pan can also heat rapidly between omelets . Take the pan off the heat , swirl your butter or oil through it , add the egg , and then put it back on the heat . If it seems really hot when you add the egg , you can cook it for a second with just the radiant heat of the pan before returning to the burner . This will stop the pan from getting too hot between omelets .
Quinoa naturally contains a bitter compound on the outside of the seed . Usually you have to rinse the quinoa to remove the bitterness but most commercial quinoa seems to have already been rinsed . So , I no longer rinse my quinoa . If you have time , it 's nice to heat a pan and add the quinoa and toast it a little ( for a nutty flavor and fluffier texture ) , then add water and salt . I typically bring the water to a boil ( 2 cups water to 1 cup quinoa plus 1/4 tsp salt ) , cover and reduce the heat to a simmer for 10-20 minutes ( or until the little tails release ) . Lately I 've found that using a rice cooker is a no-fuss way to prepare quinoa . I usually just do quinoa , water and sea salt but you can add spices while cooking it if you want to enhance the flavor . I would add vegetables afterwards . Quinoa is so quick-cooking I would n't see the need for a pressure cooker .
Also , I would add that I tend to cook in batches , rather than overfilling the pan . So using a large deep skillet put enough in to cover about 2/3 of the base , and cook on high heat til browned etc. . Then I put it into a warmed bowl as I cook the next batch , until I have a full bowl of cooked mince , which I can then put back into the pan to simmer and turn into whatever the end dish is .
Cooking time will vary greatly depending not only on the cut of fish but also the cooking method . In general , your cod will be done when it reaches an internal temperature of 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) , regardless of cooking method . Here are some times/temperatures that work for me : Sous Vide : 10 minutes or more at 56 ° C , followed by a quick broiling/grilling/blow torch . Baking ( thick fillets ) : 15 -- 20 minutes at 218 ° C ( 425 ° F ) . Baking <URL> : 15 minutes at 232 ° C ( 450 ° F ) . Deep Frying : 7 -- 8 minutes at 190 ° C ( 375 ° F ) . Steaming : 6 minutes . Poaching : I like to add the fish to the cooking liquid while the liquid is room temperature . I bring it to a simmer , and then turn the heat to low , cover , and cook for about 15 minutes . Pan Frying : This is n't quite as popular a method as the above for cooking cod , however , if you want to do it , I would recommend cooking it on high heat , flipping once the opaqueness has reached about halfway up the side of the fillet . Basically , it does n't matter which method you use as long as your cod ends up with an even internal temperature of around 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) .
What country are you in ? Every country has some edible insects . Most are terrible . some are toxic , or have toxic parts that must be removed first . This knowledge is hard won , and not readily available . Traditional local people are your best source of information ( though the Coke and McD 's culture has killed that in most parts of the world ) In New Zealand they have the Huhu grub , and in Australia the Witchetty grub . Both of which are edible raw or cooked ( roasted on hot coals for a few minutes ) . They have slightly nutty flavours These are both soft wood eating larvae around 5 to 10 cm in length , quite plump and juicy . Such insects can be found around the world . But not all are edible
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
Let 's start with a definition of cooking . The Oxford English Dictionary defines to cook as : To prepare or make ready ( food ) ; to make fit for eating by due application of heat , as by boiling , baking , roasting , broiling , etc. . However , from a chemical point of view , what happens when you are cooking meat is that you are using heat , amongst other things , to <URL> the proteins of the meat . Denaturation can also be achieved by other means , such as marinating the meat in an acid , such as citric acid ( contain in lemon juice ) or acetic acid ( contained in vinegar ) . You can also use other agents to induce denaturation , but they are not always fit for eating . However , it is important to understand that from a purely cooking perspective the two things are not the same : " cooking " with lemon ( I guess it is fine to use the verb to cook as long as you put it in quotes ) , gives a completely different result than cooking with heat . This is because other chemical reactions happen during application of heat and because , obviously , you do not end up with an hot product !
If you juice your own carrots you would see how sweet carrots actually are . When you juice a carrot , you are extracting the liquid portion ( which contains the majority of the sugars ) from the cellulose . Since the cellulose is somewhat flavorless & thinsp ; -- & thinsp ; it tastes pretty much like paper pulp & thinsp ; -- & thinsp ; you are essentially creating " concentrated carrot " flavor , which is why it tastes so much sweeter than when you eat it whole . You can also roast a carrot and see how sweet it is . Roasting drives off a lot of the water and breaks down the fiber . Try it ; you 'll see just how sweet a carrot actually is .
Just treat them as you would corned beef . I like the pressure cooker method
I have the brand of juicer ( Champion ) mentioned by the OP in comments . It 's a rather unusual design that is n't used by most other companies . They are somewhat notorious for producing a lot of foam . I bought it perhaps 15 years ago , but rarely use it for this reason . ( It still has other uses other than juicing . ) Anyhow , the solution I found to this problem was simply to strain the juice through a fine-mesh sieve . It wo n't go quickly and will get clogged with the pulp , so you 'll need to a take a spoon or something and stir it around to force the juice through . It takes a long time , but it 's effective because the bubbles dissipate when they go through the sieve . Given the construction of these types of juicers , I would generally just place a bowl underneath and a large sieve in the bowl to catch the juice coming out . After finishing juicing , you can turn off the machine and then spend 5 minutes stirring and straining to get rid of the foam . I have seen others on the internet mention success using a French press to do a similar straining action to destroy the foam . I tried it once but it did n't seem to work as well ( perhaps the stirring action within the sieve also assists with the foam ) . Nevertheless , it still made an improvement .
I can imagine a few ways of doing it based on the texture you 're looking for , and what you have to work with . Remove the meat from the casing and fry the meat in a pan . You 'll basically be cooking ground meat which will allow you to easily seasons it and also integrate it into other foods . This method also allows you to season the actual meat if you want to . Cut the sausages into disks and fry them in a pan . This will leave you with more body than the first method , and also allow you to really get some good color on the flat parts of the cut sausage . Leave them whole , poke holes in them , and cook them on anything . I would n't do this for the application you 're looking for . You will eventually be cutting them up , and if you cut them after cooking , you wo n't have the browning that you could have had .
According to the <URL> : If packaging is accidentally cooked in a conventional oven , is the food safe to eat ? Plastic packaging materials should not be used at all in conventional ovens . They may catch on fire or melt , causing chemical migration into foods . Sometimes these materials are inadvertently cooked with a product . For example , giblets may be accidentally cooked inside the turkey in their packaging or a beef roast may be cooked with the absorbent pad from the fresh meat packaging underneath . The giblet bag and the absorbent pad are clearly not intended to be cooked , however if this happens and the packaging materials remain unaltered ( that is , do not melt or come apart ) the cooked meat will not pose an imminent health hazard . If the packaging materials have melted or changed shape in some other way do not use the product . Who are they kidding ? Of course , they are altered . With deep regrets , I threw my roast away . ( More info <URL> . )
The thing to remember , vis a vis bacterial contamination , is that it 's almost always the OUTSIDE of the meat that 's contaminated , not the inside . With pork and chicken you 're worried about an internal parasite/bacteria , which is why they 're not cooked rare . With beef , if it 's grade A , it 's good to go , and most everything you buy in the grocery store is fine . With tuna ( which is another one people like super-rare ) the story is mostly the same , though the chance of getting a parasite from fish is higher . In both cases , do a hot sear on the outside , and it 'll take care of any bacteria that may be hanging around . The reason ground beef is considered a higher threat is because the " outside " is pretty much the whole thing after the grinding process .
Anything will cook in a rice cooker , eventually . You will need to experiment with the size of the meat chunks . When the meal is done cooking , take them out and see if they are cooked and at the correct temperature . If not , finish cooking them and cut them up smaller next time . What I would do however is cube the meat , sear it , and then throw it in to the cooker . You will end up with a better texture this way .
It 's very difficult to give an answer , as the size and shape of the casserole can greatly affect the reheating time . I 've found to get the best results , I start the casserole covered in a cold oven ( put it in the oven , then turn the heat on ) , and cook it at low heat ( 300 ° F / 150 ° C ) until it 's heated through . Once it 's up to temperature , I uncover the dish and turn the oven to broil ( called ' grill ' in some areas ... when only the top element is on at very high heat ) , and brown the top . If you need to , once the dish is warmed through , you can turn the oven down to its lowest setting and hold it there until you 're near time to serve it . ( it only takes a few minutes to brown the top , especially if you adjust the oven rack so the casserole is an inch or so ( 2.5 cm ) from the heating element ) I 'd probably give myself an hour minimum to heat it , preferably 1.5 hours , and 2 hours if it 's an especially large dish .
end question
start question
Why do my meat burritos not heat well ?
I agree with Brendan 's answer above . Having also made freezer burritos ahead of time , I find that it helps if I put some source of re-heatable ' liquid ' in the wrap while preparing them ( e.g. salsa , not sour cream , for example ) . It might have something to do with steaming the food instead of directly heating it , maybe ? Let me know if that helps .
Almost all fermented dairy products curdle under heat . When this happens , the milk proteins bind to each other into a rubbery mesh , which ca n't contain all the moisture from the original product , and it is squeezed out . Creme fraîche tends to be an exception . It contains a high amount of fat . This fat lubricates the proteins and gets in the way , so they ca n't bind to each other and form the mesh . However , the fat content of creme fraîche is n't all that high ( just enough to allow for the effect I described ) , so it is finicky when heated . As you do n't seem to have acid in the recipe , the trouble probably comes from water . It dilutes the creme fraîche , making it more probable that proteins will meet and bind without a fat droplet coming in the way . So , if you want to keep the recipe as authentic as possible , try to reduce the amount of water exuded by the other ingredients . The first thing to check is whether you are actually using creme fraîche . Sometimes people make a substitution with a similar product , but continue calling it the name of the original product . Sour cream , smetana , creme legere , plant substitutes , etc. wo n't work in your case - 30 % fat is the minimum for baking , the higher the fat content , the better is it suited . For the rest of the answer , I am assuming that you are using the creme fraîche . My suggestion would be to drain the broccoly very well ( I assume you mean blanched or nuked broccoli , baking them in the oven would be strange ) , maybe even try to use a salad dryer . If the salmon comes from a vacuum package , drain it well too , and pat it dry with a paper towel . Take the potatoes out of the boiling pot and leave them alone for a while , the cooling startch will absorb some moisture . Also , use a mealy type of potatoes , the starch in these could absorb some liquid from the other ingredients . Another thing which should help in any case is to reduce the oven temperature , as the gentler heat will affect the creme fraîche less . If this fails , you should consider adding other ingredients to stabilize the creme fraîche . It will change the taste , but not necessarily for the worse . A stabilizer should help . For dairy , carrageenan is very effective and its taste is not noticeable , but most people do n't have it in the kitchen . Starch will also act as stabilizer , take just a small portion , maybe a teaspoonful per 200 g creme fraîche . Dissolve it in a teaspoonful of cold water before adding it . You could also use flour . Both will affect the taste somewhat , the flour will be more pronounced . The second solution would be to raise the fat content . Adding pure fat is counterproductive , as the fat droplets in dairy products are much smaller than what your blender would achieve . But you could mix or substitute the creme fraîche using a dairy product with a higher fat content . Mascarpone , kaymak , katuk , clotted cream , or creme double should work . Or maybe cream cheese , even if it does n't have a higher fat content , because it contains stabilizers . A full substitution will alter the taste substantially , but a partial one will probably be OK . If all else fails , you could try if you ca n't change the recipe to accommodate a more traditional gratin liquid ( how is the stuff called in English ? ) . While I agree that pure creme fraîche will work best with what you listed , a mixture of eggs ( or just yolks to keep it more liquid ) , milk , the creme fraîche , and a tiny bit of flour would also provide a moist binding . Use less eggs/yolks than in a normal gratin to keep it from setting too much . It will be a big change , but if nothing else works , it will still taste much better than curdled creme fraîche . Or if you are a risk-embracing nature , you can continue using pure creme fraîche , just with the moisture reducing techniques , hoping that this will be enough . Each time it separates , you should drain the whole dish , catching the liquid . Scum off the curds , or strain them . The whey will have a nice taste , similar to a stock . Take out some new creme fraîche ( not heated ) , and mix it with the liquid . ( Reduce it first to avoid making it too liquid ) . Add it back to the remaining ingredients . This will keep the taste even if the curdling occurs , but will require lots of work .
There are a couple of things that jump out at me : 170 F ( 77 C ) - This is overkill for ground beef . The USDA guidelines recommend 160 F ( 71 C ) . Venting holes - This is unnecessary . There is no need to " vent " a hamburger . What you 're doing is creating holes for the juices to flow out of and get vaporized on the pan . This is likely a significant source of the smoking you describe . Keep those juices in ! I 'm not familiar with electric stoves , so I 'm not sure if 6/8 is too hot or not , but it might be . I cook my burgers on a gas stove at medium-high flame and generally do 5 mins per side for a medium burger ( I grind my own beef ) . My burgers are about an 3/4 " - 1 " thick too . So you might have your stove too hot , try turning it down a smidge . Update I want to clarify regarding the " blood " you are worried about . It 's a common misconception that the red liquid packaged with beef is blood . It 's not . Beef is drained of virtually all blood when it is slaughtered . Beef is 75 % water , so the liquid you see is mostly water and the pink hue comes from the iron &amp; oxygen binding protein <URL> which exists in muscle tissue . When cooking , the juices you are releasing are taking a lot of the flavor with them . This liquid is a combination of liquified fat , water , and proteins . You can verify this at the <URL> site for beef . Another common misconception is that a completely grey-brown interior indicates well done . According to the USDA , 25 % of burgers turn brown before being fully cooked ; this can happen as low as 135 F ( 57 C ) . The inverse is true as well , some beef can be cooked to the USDA recommended safe temperature 160 F ( 71 C ) and still retain some light pinkness in the center . If your concern is merely safety , cooking the beef to an interior temperature of 160 F is sufficient , regardless of it 's hue . If you you 're cooking it beyond that just because you do n't like the sight of pink meat , well you 're overcooking your burgers and doing yourself a bit of injustice . :)
Gravy is supposed to be opaque and is a result of using flour as the thickener . If you want clear gravy , like what you would get in a Chinese restaurant , then you need to use corn starch or arrowroot as your thickener . But the opacity is considered to be a good thing . It 's the canned stuff you buy in the store that is clear .
The thing to remember , vis a vis bacterial contamination , is that it 's almost always the OUTSIDE of the meat that 's contaminated , not the inside . With pork and chicken you 're worried about an internal parasite/bacteria , which is why they 're not cooked rare . With beef , if it 's grade A , it 's good to go , and most everything you buy in the grocery store is fine . With tuna ( which is another one people like super-rare ) the story is mostly the same , though the chance of getting a parasite from fish is higher . In both cases , do a hot sear on the outside , and it 'll take care of any bacteria that may be hanging around . The reason ground beef is considered a higher threat is because the " outside " is pretty much the whole thing after the grinding process .
Plain omelette : parsely and chives . I 'd be careful with woody , stalky herbs like rosemary ; not because of the taste but because I do n't want to chew on the hard pieces . Keep in mind that the omelette does not get cooked as long as other dishes where these work well . Then depending on the filling : anything with cream and fish may work with dill . Italian style with sage and thyme . ( Not herbs , but for completeness : Paprika with mushrooms and red wine . Garlic with fried onions . )
Unfortunately , cornstarch does that . It does not reheat well . Potato starch is even worse , and that 's the thickener in Knorr 's Leek Soup . If you want to reheat something thickened , your best bet is to thicken it with a roux . There are other more modern thickeners ( think molecular gastronomy ) , but I do n't know much about those .
It 's simply not ripe yet Do n't buy avocado 's or any other fruit and vegetable in pre-packed bags , you can not tell what state they are in Buy from a local grocer whom you can trust , and therefore can get honest answers on the state of the produce Avocados are usually sold unripe for shipping reasons . Buy ahead of need , and let them ripen at room temperature ( 2 to 7 days ) . They will keep in the fridge if you need them latter than that To recover an peeled unripe avocado , you can cube it , and then cook it in the microwave in short bursts to soften it . It 's only good for salsa or sauce at that point though . One advantage of slightly cooking avocado is that the green colour becomes more intense , I suspect this explains the guacamole colour from many fast food vendors :-)
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
I 'd suggest a <URL> AND an instant read digital thermometer like the <URL> ( which is pretty cheap ) or the <URL> ( which is n't ) . A leave-in probe lets you monitor the general progress of the food , giving you a good way to gauge how much cooking time remains without having to open the oven and slow down the process . The instant read variety is great for checking the internal temperature of all sorts of food that you might not normally measure -- steaks on the grill , mashed potatoes , stocks and soups ( to make sure that they 're cooling quickly enough ) , bread ( to check for doneness ) ... Both leave-in and instant read are extremely useful , and neither of them will expose your turkey to the risk of glass shards .
Yes , preheating warns up the entire interior of the oven which is important for keeping the air hot such as when you open the door . It helps the oven bounce back to full heat much sooner . If you do n't preheat , it will take several minutes before the oven reaches proper cooking temps , and interfere with even heating . If you want to see the difference most dramatically , bake some chocolate chips . First without any preheating and then when those are supposed the be done , do another batch and bake them for the same amount of time . If you are baking something for an hour or more , it may not make much difference , but shorter baking times can be dramatically affected .
I believe the goal is to get the best sear possible on each side of the meat . Moving the meat around too much could cause it to cook completely without getting a good sear on the outside . Clearly this does n't apply when doing anything " rotisserie " style , as you 're trying to do the exact opposite : slowly cook the interior of the meat without burning the outside to a crisp or unevenly . Also , see this similar question : <URL>
This is the nature of meringue : they will start to fall apart as soon as you stop whipping . There are a few tricks to help it hold longer , but in general you want to have EVERYTHING ready to go as soon as the meringue is whipped . To help stabilize the meringue you can : Use a copper or SILVER-plated bowl to whip , or add a tiny amount of powdered copper supplement from a health food store Acidify it slightly : add 1/8 tsp cream of tartar or 1/2 tsp lemon juice per white , before beating Let the bowl warm to room temperature , which increases the ability of the whites to take in air Ensure there is absolutely no yolk in with the whites . The fat greatly destabilizes the foam . Now for WHY these tricks work : I 'm going to quote heavily from Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " , as it does a wonderful job explaining meringues and other whipped egg whites : Like the head on a beer or a cappucino , an egg foam is a liquid -- the white -- filled with a gas -- air -- in such a way that the mixuture of liquid and gas keeps its shape , like a solid . It 's a mass of bubbles , with air inside each bubble , and the white spread out into a thin film to form the bubble walls . And the makeup of these liquid walls determines how long a foam can stand up . Pure water has such a strong surface tension -- such strong attractive forces among its molecules -- that it immediately starts to pull itself together into a compact puddle ; and it 's so runny that it puddles almost immediately . The many nonwater molecules in egg white both reduce the surface tension of the water they float in , and make it less runny , and thus allow the bubbles to survive long enough to accumulate in a sizeable mass . What gives the mass of foam a useful kitchen lifetime is the white 's team of proteins . Whisking unfolds these proteins , primarily globulins and ovotranferrin , which bond to each other and stabilize the bubble walls . Cooking will evaporate the water and unfold ovoalbumin , creating a rigid and permanent protein network . However , the same proteins can ALSO destabilize the foam if they bond too tightly . " The protein network begins to collapse when too many of these bonds accumulate and the proteins cluster together too tightly " ( page 102 ) . In the case of egg proteins , one of the strongest bonds is a disulfide bond between the sulfur-containing amino acids , cysteine and methionine . Eggs contain copious quantities of these amino acids , which are why they produce such a potent stench when they spoil ; the sulfur is converted to malodorous sulfur compounds , particularly hydrogen sulfide . Copper , silver , and acids stabilize the egg foam by preventing the formation of these disulfide bonds . To quote Harold McGee ( page 103 ) : It turns out that along with a few other metals , copper has the useful tendency to form extremely tight bonds with reactive sulfur groups : so tight that the sulfur is essentially preventing from reacting with anything else . So the presence of copper in foaming eggs whites essentially eliminates the strongest kind of protein bond that can form , and makes it harder for the proteins to embrace each other too tightly . McGee also notes that silver has the same property of inhibiting disulfide bonding . Acid achieves the same goal of reducing disulfide bonding , but works slightly differently : The sulfur bonds form when the sulfur-hydrogen ( S-H ) groups on two different protein molecules shed their hydrogens and form a sulfur-sulfur ( S-S ) connection with each other . The addition of an acid boosts the number of free-floating hydrogen ( H ) ions in the egg white , which makes it much harder for the S-H groups to shed their own H , and so slows the sulfur bonding down to a crawl .
The main reason why you want to cut the duck in half and roast them with the skin side pointing upwards is so the skin of the duck is nice and crispy . Unlike most roasted poultry where you do n't eat the skin , the duck 's skin is considered a huge delicacy if it is crispy .
Perhaps I 'm stating the obvious , but is your oven rack perfectly level ? Muffin mix initially has low enough viscosity that it can be influenced by gravity as it gradually rises . Even a small inclination of the tray/rack is likely to cause this .
While I have n't heard of it happening for the specific ingredients you list , yes , the blender can make stuff really bitter . There are two ways this can happen . First , a chemical reaction . A blender really churns the stuff through , driving lots of air bubbles into the mixture with some force . It also causes friction heat , especially professional grade blenders like vitamix . The heat , force and large reaction surface can cause the oxygen in the air to enter a reaction with the ingredients which does n't happen when using a milder method for cutting up . Olive oil is a known culprit here , it usually turns bitter when blended , but it can happen with other stuff too . Besides oxygen , a chemical reaction can also happen between two ingredients coming from two different vegetables , which would not have been mixed well enough in the knife scenario to produce noticeable amounts of reaction product . The second possibility is releasing stuff which would have stayed " packed " without the blender . A knife will only damage the plant cells at the cut surfaces , and a blunt knife , if used with a somewhat inefficient technique , might even break very ripe vegetables along the cell walls instead of cutting through the cells . If there are mini-droplets of something bitter within the plant cells , it is possible that the blender ( which really cuts cells into pieces ) released these things . On a more macro level , it is also possible that we are not talking mini-droplets , but just plant parts which did n't get cut with the knife . Stray pepper seeds come in mind : you probably did n't cut any with the knife , they tend to be pushed by a knife instead of cut when you are cutting the pepper . The blender pulverizes everything that hits the blades , including these seeds . I can not know which of these is the most probable source , or which plant contained the bitter matter exposed/created by the blender . But the different methods of mincing vegetables are not equivalent , and can have very noticeable effects on taste and texture beyond the obvious chunk size . The bitterness you encountered is only one example . In general , use the method specified in a recipe . If you are not working from a written recipe , try out a few and see which works best .
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
The little bit ( about 4 - 5 grams after cooking ) of fat in the breast itself will render out faster , and you could end up with a dryer over-crispy duck breast by the time it 's done in the center . A tiny ding should n't present a problem , but if you actually get the whole or most of the edge of the blade into the breast , you 'll have to pay close attention to heat as you cook it . If you score it that deep , you 're probably better off poaching it in butter after searing . The juices in the breast make it moist , and you definitely do n't want to lose those either , but that tiny bit of fat in the breast once you 've rendered out what 's in the skin makes it delicious . You really want to keep that in .
You need to 1 ) increase the emulsification , and 2 ) reduce the amount of time the sauce is very hot . You can try adding honey or mustard to the sauce , that will improve emulsification . You can also hit it with a stick blender which will do a much better job of breaking it up than can be done by hand . Also it may look ok after a few hours but who knows how much separation is starting to happen at a very small scale and will accelerate when it hits heat . Add the sauce at the last possible moment before plating . It is n't going to benefit from cooking , and it is n't going to marinade into the cooked food , so do n't have it in any longer than it takes for it to warm up . 20 seconds is probably all it will take .
I agree with Brendan 's answer above . Having also made freezer burritos ahead of time , I find that it helps if I put some source of re-heatable ' liquid ' in the wrap while preparing them ( e.g. salsa , not sour cream , for example ) . It might have something to do with steaming the food instead of directly heating it , maybe ? Let me know if that helps .
end question
start question
How to make a New York cheesecake with a super creamy , silky texture ?
Okay , I undeleted my OP to this question ( to be honest , not sure how similar the two are ... , never checked that closely ) . The most important thing to watch for in terms of the ' silkiness ' would be the mixing and ingredient temp . When all ingredients are at room temp , they homogonize much quicker , and require far less mixing , therefore less air is incorporated , making for a denser product . I think this should help . Short of that , it could be recipe . A perfect cheesecake recipe is hard to find ( luckily , I have one ) . Can I post it here ? I do n't think it 's allowed ... Answer I typed yesterday ( sorry if it is essentially a dupe ) ... I ' @ work , do n't have time to check too closely ... I have made thousands of cheesecakes . My pastry chef taught me how a method that has always worked : Always use room temperature ingredients . NEVER overmix , incorporation of air is your enemy Set your oven to 300 F ( sorry , in Canada we are metric , but use Farenheit for baking ) . Place your cheesecake in a water bath . Bake for 30 minutes . Turn off the oven and open its door , allow the cheesecake to rest for 30 minutes , sitting in the oven in this state . After the thirty minute rest , carefully close the door , and set the oven to 300 F again . Bake another 30 minutes ( I have sometimes had to go to 40 minutes depending on oven ) . And that 's it . Works every time . I am so thankful he taught me this . As an added bonus , you will get a cake that is flat like a board , with no cracks .
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
Thierry , Stainless steel French presses work fine . In fact , you can construct a French press out of any chemically inert material : stainless steel , class , ceramic , high-temperature plastic , enameled copper , even marble , and it will make perfectly good coffee . I myself have a collection of porcelain and stoneware presses . What material you choose is really a matter of aesthetics and how you use the press . All of that being said , my experience is that high-quality glass carafes do not break regularly unless you drop them ( which is , admittedly , an issue ) . I 'm wondering if you bought a cheaper carafe with inferior glass , like one from Ikea . I have a Bodum which is at least 8 years old . Also , for brand name presses , you can usually buy replacement carafes , since breakage ( due to dropping ) is a frequent issue . Sometimes the replacements cost as much as a whole new press , but you should at least check it out .
Soft bread is soft because CO2 produced by yeast and water that gets turned to steam by the baking process gets trapped into pockets by a mesh of gluten , causing the dough to expand . The dough then solidifies , keeping its shape . If your bread is not soft then it has n't expanded enough for one or more reasons : Dough too dry : as much as the yeast , water is responsible for getting a good rise in your bread . Gluten requires moisture to relax and stretch , forming the structure that traps the air that causes a rise , dough that is too dry wo n't form good gluten . Also , dough that is too dry wo n't have the elasticity to rise . Yeast needs water to do its work , dough that is too dry will inhibit the yeast . Also , the expansion of water into steam is as important for a good rise as yeast . If there 's one mistake many bakers make ( including myself for years ) it is making dough too dry . Yeast inactive or inhibited : if your yeast is old , came into contact with salt , or does n't have enough water to work then your yeast wo n't work well for you . Yeast does several things for you : it converts sugar into CO2 causing a rise , it improves the structure of your dough , and it adds flavor . Put the salt on the opposite side of the bowl from the yeast to avoid inhibiting it . Also , adding the yeast to sugary water does n't work well , especially with more modern yeasts . Just get quick acting yeast and add it to the flour bowl , then add water to that . The dough is not worked ( kneaded ) enough : Kneading improves the structure of your dough by stretching gluten molecules and getting them to link together , making your dough stretchy and pliable , and forming a structure that will trap air for a rise . Under-worked dough wo n't have enough structure the dough has been worked too much : as a home baker using hands this is unlikely , but still possible . Once you have the structure of the dough you need , stop and let it rise as any further working will form too much of a structure , making it too strong to expand Dough under-risen : the times in baking recipes are just guidelines , you need to go for a result rather than a time . I 've had books say 45 minutes but it takes 3 hours , especially if my yeast was old Dough over-risen : if your dough rises too long the yeast will exhaust the sugars in the dough and die out , leading to the loss of all the air . This will make the dough dense . For a nice soft sandwich bread I start with a really sticky dough . I then use it 's stickiness to stretch the dough , smearing it all over the countertop and using a pastry scraper to bring it back together . This is a really quick way to build some gluten . Then I knead in flour bit by bit , kneading for at least 1 minute between adding flour until I have a soft dough that still sticks a bit to the counter . That stickiness means that there 's enough moisture in the dough . I 'll add a bit more flour to that and then stop adding flour to avoid drying the dough . If I want to knead it more I 'll knead with a bit of vegetable oil instead to keep it from sticking . It 's consistency you 're looking for , not time . Time is relative depending on your strength and kneading technique , 5 minutes for a skilled and strong baker may translate to 15 minutes for normal humans , so knead until you have the consistency you want . When you start kneading the dough it will pull into pieces easily , and have a rough texture . As you knead that roughness disappears and it will stretch longer without breaking . For a sandwich loaf I 'll knead until I can stretch the dough from the middle of my torso to my knee without it breaking . Next , rising your dough may take much longer than recipes say as it all depends on the ambient temperature of the room , humidity , the activity of the yeast , and other factors . Again , make this results driven , not time driven . A good sandwich bread dough should rise a lot , not the " doubled " many recipes say . For me tripled is more like it . Make sure you put it in a big enough bowl ! This advice goes for the initial as well as the secondary rise in the pans . Let it rise enough in the pans until it looks like the recipe picture , that 's about right . Ideally your oven will have been pre-heating for 30 minutes by now . Now , slash your loaves the long way with a razor blade like a carpet knife , about 1/2 an inch down . Do it quick and avoid punching down the dough . Slashing will split the top skin and allow the dough to rise efficiently after you put it into the oven . Once you put it in the oven it 's going to rise a lot as the yeast goes crazy before the heat kills it , and the moisture in the dough is going to vaporize into steam . If you do n't slash you wo n't get as good a rise .
One thing you can do is use much longer pieces of acetate and cut the long cigarillos afterwards gently with a hot knife . That way your spreading and rolling action is cut down to 1/2 or 1/3 .
By grinding it , you are also increasing the surface are of the herb when it reaches the tongue , and you are exposing the raw/inner ( bitter ) flavors of the herb to the mouth . When cooking with it " un-ground " , the cooking process extracts just the oils from the herb , and leaves the leaf in tact which does not taste unpleasant to the senses . I would certainly use less of a ground herb , but my preference would be to leave it in it 's natural dried state , and if you want more taste just increase the quantity . The only exception I have for this is when making rubs , where the fat of the meat ( or oil for a bread dip ) typically complements the bitter flavor of the ground herb .
A foam is just a liquid with plenty of air incorporated into it . You can incorporate air into any liquid ; in order to be able to create an actual foam , however , you need to be able to incorporate the air faster than it escapes . What makes a liquid able to hold the air you 're incorporating ( and hence form a foam ) is a foam stabilizer , also commonly called an emulsifier1 . I know of no specific taxonomy of stabilizers , but the vast majority are hydrocolloids AKA gelling agents and belong to some family of protein . Agar , carrageenan , alginate , xanthan , and pectin are all types of <URL> ; Lecithin is mostly a random collection of <URL> ; Gelatin is denatured collagen , i.e. animal protein ; Whey protein is the prevalent protein in dairy products ; And so on . Really almost any emulsifier will do . Basically everything in your list either is , or contains , one of the the additives mentioned above : Chocolate is almost always emulsified with soy lecithin ; Eggs contain high amounts of lecithin ; Milk and cream contain whey protein ; Most " supermarket cream " also has emulsifiers like carrageenan already in it . ... you get the picture , I hope . The most basic answer I can give to this is that if you want to make a foam , you need to either use something that 's already an emulsion ( milk , butter , chocolate , etc. ) or use an emulsifier/stabilizer additive ( such as gelatin , lecithin , etc. ) If you want a relatively complete list of all of the food additives that qualify , you 'll want to look at the E number , and specifically <URL> ( thickeners , stabilizers , emulsifiers ) . 1 . As commenter Erik very correctly points out , an emulsifier is not the same thing as a foam stabilizer . However , by convention , the terms seem to be used interchangeably all over the place , to the extent that I get blank looks when I refer to a " stabilizer " as opposed to " emulsifier " . So , know the difference , but do n't get too hung up on it .
There are several options for frostings that are light and fluffy , and not based on just powdered ( confectioner 's ) sugar and shortening , that are n't just whipped cream . Other answers have already mentioned the last two , but I wanted to add whipped ganache . <URL> -- my personal favorite . Of course , this is always and only chocolate ( I do n't call white chocolate chocolate ... ) <URL> ; the link is for a vanilla recipe but many variants are possible . <URL> is tall and fluffy and has no fat at all . This is also known as merengue frosting .
Donuts are a deep fried food . The texture of deep fried food is unique and can not be duplicated by other methods . If you bake doughnut dough , you will get small rolls , which will have a similar aroma , but not the same combination of moist , soft inside and fat-crispy outside . You could bake it , as with any other yeast dough , only nobody will recognize it as a donut . Assuming that you want to get actual donuts , you must fry them . And no matter what you do to them , the more oil you use to fry them , the better your donuts will turn out . The physics of deep frying include throwing pieces of food with a starchy surface ( potatoes , or breaded items , or dough pieces like donuts ) in oil at around 190 degrees Celsius . At this temperature , the outer surface of the dough/vegetable/breading crisps immediately , preventing from any oil getting into the item and any vapor getting out of the item . This only works when the oil in the vicinity of the fried item stays within a few degrees of the target temperature during the first ~ 30 seconds of the frying process . Which means that you need a stable temperature in your fryer . Now , thermodynamics tells us that , if you throw a 25 degrees piece of food into a puddle of 190 degrees hot oil , they will exchange warmth proportionally to their mass . So , if you want the oil to stay close to the correct temperature , the mass of the donut has to be very small in comparison to the mass of the oil -- which means that you need lots of oil . The options you have to do with less oil are all unsatisfactory from my point of view , you might decide to pick one of them . Put up with the quality reduction . Use less oil in the pan , maybe even shallow frying in oil up to the half of the donut only . The donuts will lose moisture and soak up grease . The less oil you use , the worse the grease soak will be . Also , you will use up more oil , because you will have to constantly add the amount soaked up by the already fried donuts . You may consider it well used instead of wasted , because you get to eat it , but from my point of view this is the worst option . Trade time for oil . You can use a small pot , and fry a single donut at a time . Frying 50 g donuts should go well with under 500 ml oil . You are still a bit constrained by the fact that the oil temperature will fluctuate more due to factors not related to the oil , but it should be manageable , if you have the patience . Note that if you place multiple donuts in the small pan , you are getting towards the first or third solution . Try to manage a stable temperature in a donut-crowded small pan by using a very hot setting and letting the oil get too hot before adding a new donut . This is a very complicated thing to manage , especially seeing that you are trying to not burn the other donuts in the pan at the same time . I do n't think I could manage it , and if I could , the oil would n't be worth the stress . There is also the extra energy to consider -- not as expensive as throwing out more oil , but probably worse from an environmental point of view . In the end , if you want good donuts , you have to use a pot/fryer where they can swim freely in oil . Any change you make to this setup reduces the quality of your donut , making it less donut-like .
I would actually just make caramel . Place about 1 1/4 cup sugar and 1/4 cup in a heavy bottom pan and dissolve over low-medium heat then crank up the heat and let cook , without stirring , until the mixture turns a golden amber colour and starts smoking . Then use the resulting caramel to sweeten your coffee :-)
Tl ; dr You can use your cast iron for anything if it is seasoned and cleaned well . I do n't have a ribbed pan and it seems that would be harder to clean so I will speak only to the smooth . My cast iron pan is reasonably well seasoned . It could be better but I only get a little sticking . Scraping it well and scrubbing with kosher salt and a paper towel cleans it spotless from almost anything . Occasionally I have to rinse it out which does n't damage the seasoning at all . When it is cleaned there are no lingering flavors from previous dishes . I often cook meat , onions , desserts , and cornbread with no problems . Cornbread has a delightfully different and deliciously rustic texture when cooked in hot cast iron .
Rule of thumb , dairy in the north and coconut in southern recipes . ie korma would n't have coconut Indian yogurt is made with whole milk . As with western recipes , balancing the fat for good mouth-feel is important : yogurt can be a good choice when a larger quantity of liquid is called for . Cream works great when a finishing splash smooths out flavors without watering down Acidity is also important . Does the dish need a tangy component or a softening of acids ? A dish could use both : yogurt marinade then a bit of cream to finish . For richness and a hint of sweetness along with a wonderful aroma , coconut ca n't be beat but will be a discernable flavor in most curries . Many restaurants are making use of coconut where it is less than traditional with good results .
Chocolate chips made for baking have a higher melting point . The typical tricks used by chocolate manufacturers is to change the viscosity of chocolate by adding a gel like xanthan gum or glycerine . The other trick is to incorporate more water into the chocolate with the aid of an emulsifier such as lecithin . All these techniques are hard to do at home as they require many hours of stirring the chocolate to avoid grittiness . <URL> often give recipes . One can buy chocolate with higher melting points . <URL> melts at 55 & deg ; C , the highest melting point for a commercial chocolate that I know of , but is not yet on sale . Many of the commercial chocolate bars , such as the wartime <URL> use chocolate that incorporate these techniques as do the <URL> .
Buying local honey is one way to be sure that what you are getting is " honey " . I 've never heard of people passing off something else as honey . Is n't that why we have the fda ? If you are buying it in the store , check the lable ... my honey has one ingredient ; honey .
Yes , you can . And it is not too easy . Microfoam has small bubbles by definition and the panarello wand will draw a ' certain ' amount of air and you ca n't really control that part . The notes below might help you get there . I have successfully done this with the panarello wands of automatic Saeco machines which are n't too different from deLonghi . Run your steam wand in a cup water first until it 's fully producing steam and not spuddering hot water mixed with steam . Use a small Stainless Steel Milk Frothing Pitcher . If the wand is trying to blow steam and air in for a long time , you 'll end up with big bubbles . That wand is not as powerful as a commercial espresso machine with a proper boiler . ' Stretch ' the froth only for a few seconds in the beginning . Keep the wand off-center in the pitcher to encourage circulation ( see next point ) . Most important : make sure you create a whirlpool to circulate the milk ( helps to gently move the pitcher in a circular motion to encourage the start of the whirlpool ) . I use the fattiest milk I can find . The trick is to move the milk in a circulation such that big bubbles break and only microbubbles survive . Some microfoam creation also happens at the vortex of the whirlpool .
First off , try digestive biscuits . They 're really very similar cookies/crackers/biscuits , and it 's a common enough substitution that it 's even <URL> . <URL> implies that they 're called wheatmeal biscuits in Australia . sourd ' oh 's suggestion of particularly crunchy gingersnaps might work too , but you 'll also want to make sure they 're not too spicy ! ( Unfortunately , I do n't know about specific varieties since I 'm not Australian . )
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
As a vegetarian , I regularly try to compensate for the lack of meat in a normally meat-containing dish using a number of methods , though I feel none can truly replace the addition of meat perfectly . In my experience , duplicating the effects of the addition of meat to a dish requires considering individually the effects the addition would have . First I 'll address the fat added . Since the lard present in bacon is high in saturated fats , you can attempt to duplicate that using vegetable oils that are high in saturated fats , like hard margarine or palm oil . While I would n't normally advocate with using an oil specifically because it has higher saturated fat content ( for health reasons ) , in this case it will likely help the quality of the finished greens . Consider using a smaller proportion of the more saturated fats by adding in a lighter/healthier oil , like canola or grapeseed , as a portion of the added fat . There is no single rule for getting the fat content of a dish like this right , and it 's often a matter of taste . The smokiness added by the bacon is also a consideration . While liquid smoke could work , the volatility of the product can contribute to the flavor getting poorly concentrated in the food . I have had good results with both smoked salt and smoked black pepper in concentrating smokiness in a dish , and I have found that adding either more near the end of cooking encourages the flavor to be retained more prominently . For the savoriness added by the aminos in the pork , there is a wide variety of vegan options for its substitution . A good place to start , in my opinion , is to use a vegan not-meat bouillon ( e.g. from <URL> ) as the base of the broth . The addition of nutritive yeast ( and to a lesser extent mushrooms ) can also help infuse the broth with umami , and is a common ingredient in vegan broth preparations . If desired , the addition of liquid aminos ( e.g. <URL> ) , and/or MSG can help further improve the savoriness of the greens . For the texture added by the bacon itself your intuition of using TVP or vegan bacon is likely the way to go . While neither adds much flavor itself ( vegan bacon being far more mellow in its baconiness ) , they are probably your best bet for duplicating a meaty texture .
Well - not exactly . The reason that this technique works with lemons is that they actually do contain quite a bit of water . It 's not so much " water-free " as it is using the residual water from the rinds and un-squeezed pips . Mint contains a lot less water by weight , so if you tried it in similar portions you 'd wind up not with mint syrup , but with slightly-damp mint-flavored sugar . However , that might actually work pretty well for your intended purpose . The flavorful oils in mint will dissolve very well in sugar or in something with a lot of fats , like cream . You could try gently muddling fresh mint in a small amount of sugar and letting it sit until the mint looks ragged , dissolve the mixture in cream , filter out any little bits of mint , and then using that to make your whipped cream . You could also try breaking up the mint a bit and letting it sit in your cream for a while to extract the essential oils , but my suspicion is that you wo n't get quite as intense an extraction that way . The other option that bears mentioning is using an essential oil or extract to flavor your cream or cream cheese instead .
You 'll want to temper the melted chocolate . This means holding it at 88 ° F ( 31 ° C ) while it cools until it is completely hardened , then finally allowing it to return to room temperature ( or lower ) afterward . If you temper the chocolate this way , it will be much harder and last indefinitely at room temperature . The easiest way to temper chocolate is the " seed method " , which means adding a piece of solid ( never-melted ) chocolate to the fully-melted chocolate after removing it from the heat source and stirring thoroughly until the temperature reaches 88 ° F / 31 ° C , and then keeping it at that temperature until you 're ready to use it . ( Note that this is for dark chocolate ; for temperatures for other types of chocolate and for a more detailed guide to tempering , I suggest you check out the <URL> . ) The technical explanation for this is that the temperature at which melted chocolate hardens determines its final consistency as a solid . If chocolate hardens at room temperature , it ends up forming a very weak crystalline structure that begins to melt at even the slightest rise in temperature ( i.e. in your hand ) . Allowing it to solidify at the highest possible temperature below the actual melting point ensures that it forms a denser crystalline structure and will not melt at room temperature .
end question
start question
Do I need to grease , grease-proof paper ?
You do n't need to grease the paper . However , if you really want to , you can grease it , but beware that the bottom of your cookies can bake quicker due to the extra fat that transfers heat . In most cookies , there is already a lot of fat which prevents them from sticking on their own .
The oven in a standard 20 " kitchen stove will accommodate a bird even as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) . The very detailed chart <URL> , the pertinent details of which are replicated in the chart below , establish the standard dimensions of such an oven as 18 X 16 X 14.5 inches ( 46 x 41 x 37 cm ) . In their downloadable Thanksgiving pdf , for a turkey as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) Williams-Sonoma <URL> a 16 X 13 X 3 inch ( 40 x 33 x 7.5 cm ) roasting pan . A pan of this sort is available with a rack which rises just above the bottom of the pan , as <URL> and pictured below . This kind of pan keeps height requirements down to roughly the height of the bird plus 3 " ( 7.5 cm ) above the bird , plus the standard 2.5 " ( 6.5 cm ) below the bottom rack . With 14.5 " ( 37 cm ) worth of oven height to work with and about a half inch space between the bird and the pan , that still leaves room for a bird 8 " ( 20 cm ) tall . ( We wo n't expect the bird to be half as tall as the pan is long . ) Meanwhile , an 18 " ( 46 cm ) oven depth accommodates a 16 " ( 41 cm ) long pan , and a 16 " ( 41 cm ) oven width a 13 " ( 33 cm ) pan width . Also , as seen <URL> and below , the pan 's handles fold down . Now , none of this is to say that there 's anything the slightest bit convenient about roasting so large a bird in so small a space . But it can be done . It should just be done with every whit of safety in mind .
The ripening itself is caused by ethylene gas released by the food , which is trapped by any kind of bag . As far as I know , there 's nothing inherently special about a brown paper bag , other than the fact that it 's porous and thus still allows some air to get in and out . Plastic ziplock bags have no ventilation , so they do n't work nearly as well .
Yes , you should refrigerate it . Once a commercially bottled dressing is exposed to the air it is contaminated . Your homemade dressing is no different , and is likely more contaminated to begin with . The bottom line is that your dressing is food -- for humans , bacteria , and mold . It might not be the most hospitable of environments , but something is bound to find a home there . This process is arrested by refrigeration . Additionally , the garlic and basil will be going through a decay process that would be delayed by refrigeration . I 'm not sure what kind of olive oil you used , but I 've never had a vinaigrette turn solid in the refrigerator . If you 're in a rush I 'd suggest submerging , or running hot water over the bottle you store it in to quickly thaw it . You 'll shorten the shelf life , but if you 're using it frequently enough ( used all in less than a month ) that should n't matter .
For metal pans , lining them wo n't significantly affect the cooking time -- the reason they cook differently is because of how much radiant heat they reflect . ( dark absorbs , light reflects ) . For a glass pan , however , I would think that if you use aluminum foil , or something light and reflective , that it could make it cook more like a light metal pan , as the issue in the glass pan is that it allows almost all of the radiant heat through without reflecting it . I 've never tested it , though .
Yes , certainly you can . For that matter , you can simply grease the cookie sheet itself , although that means scrubbing after baking . Cooking times would be the same as for parchment .
Fat does n't spoil like other foods . No bacteria can live in fat . Going rancid is a chemical reaction in which the fat molecules break down . So " leaving out " is not a problem . The major factors in going rancid are light and air . The more light hits your fat , the sooner it goes rancid . Also , rancidity occurs when the fat is oxidized , meaning that if you prevent contact with air , your fat will last longer . Both factors are minimized by transferring the fat to a tightly closed opaque container . With liquid oils , you use a dark colored bottle . As bottles are impractical for solid fat , just strain your grease into a jar , close it , and put it in a cupboard . The shelf life should be many months , probably more than a year . Also , do n't worry that you can get something nasty when the grease goes bad unnoticed . Rancid fat is n't a big safety risk , and ingesting it in small amounts is not problematic . If it stinks , throw it our . Before that , there is no problem to eat it . The above assumes pure , well strained fat . Pieces of fried meat left over in the fat are a safety risk , even tiny ones .
No , you do n't . Pastry flour is usually low in protein/gluten compared to A/P or bread flour . It may also be more finely ground . Both help in achieving a light , delicate texture when baking cakes , cookies , biscuits , etc. . But it 's not necessary . Especially if they 're asking for a 3/1 mix , you probably wo n't even notice the difference . Just be careful not to over-mix the dough : this encourages gluten formation and forces out air , thus resulting in tougher , denser cookies . Letting the dough rest in the fridge or freezer for 20 minutes prior to baking can help avoid this as well . Alternately , substitute oat flour ( grind some oatmeal in a blender / spice mill if you do n't have any ) - it has no gluten , and will add a pleasant , nutty flavor to the cookies .
A paper filter is a true " filter " in that it basically only allows liquid to pass through . This means that you will have no sediment in your coffee , if that is a concern to you . Paper filters are absorbent though , so some of the flavor compounds of the coffee will be absorbed into the paper , and some other compounds as well ( a chemical in coffee that causes a rise in cholesterol is absorbed by the paper ) . The paper can also lead to a papery flavor in your coffee . Metal filters only filter out particulates of a certain size , so you will frequently end up with a layer of " sludge " at the bottom of your pot . Metal filters should be non-reactive though , so they will not add a flavor to your coffee and will allow everything extracted from your coffee to pass through . If cholesterol is n't a concern , I 'd say try both and see which you like better . <URL> <URL>
Is it safe ? maybe . Is it recommended ? No . If you 're going to save bacon grease ( or other fats ) , I 'd recommend : straining it putting it into a different container to minimize the surface area exposed to air keeping the container in the fridge . Although , the first one , I admit I do n't do -- as I 'm not cooking bacon every day , I 've generally used up my supply by the time I 've got more ... so I fill a glass jar , and let solids settle to the bottom ... then just use the stuff off the top as I need it , until I get so far down the jar that I hit the darker strata , when I then dispose of the whole thing . ( I recycle jars for this , then pitch the whole thing ... you do n't want to go washing bacon grease down the drain , it does nasty things to your pipes ) ... If you 're going to do what you are , you 'll want to make sure that you hold the pan at 250 ° F ( 121 ° C ) for at least three minutes , preferably longer , to kill off botulism spores , unless you 're fond of that whole paralysis thing .
They are one more item to clean , but they are a lot easier to clean than the walls and stove . I have several in different sizes - very worthwhile in my opinion .
My opinion - I have n't done rigorous testing : Canning softens the interior of the peach but when I have ( in my laziness ) left the skins on they stay tough and quite unpleasant tasting . I doubt it has any effect on the longevity of the product but it would make it a little less pleasant and versatile .
I 'm going to assume that " country style ribs " are the ones where you cut them apart first before cooking ... I 'd wager a guess that everything is near bone , and a thermometer might have problems with this particular dish . If nothing else , as you ca n't insert it deeply enough into the thing you 're taking a measurement of , there might be enough conduction along the probe for the oven temperature to throw off the reading . Could you tell us how far the probe was in the meat ? I 'd assume anything less than about 1/3 the probe might be problematic , with 1/2 or more being better . ... All of that being said , are you sure it 's an issue with the placement of the probe , and not a problem with the probe itself ? I 've had a number of them go out over the years . I 've actually given up on them , and gone back to an instant read thermometer , as I 'm up to 4 of the bases ( can still use 'em as a timer ) , and no working probes . ( if anyone knows any brands that sell the replacement probes individually , or even better in multi-packs , I 'd be willing to go back to using them ) To calibrate -- mix some ice water , and put the probe in there . It should read 32F or 0C . ( if it even goes that low , not all do ) . Boil water , and read the temperature of it , and it should read near 100C or 212F ( possibly lower , if you 're above sea level ) . Compare it to another room thermometer after it 's been sitting for a bit ... they should read the same . Do n't try to put it into the oven directly ... you could melt the probe ... that 's how I lost the first one , so you ca n't try to compare it to your oven thermometer .
If your jam has at least 1:1 ratio ( 1 kg of sugar per kg of fruit ) or more , you do not have to can it . Then it is so overwhelmingly sweet that bacteria can not live in it . If the jam has less sugar ( 1:2 are popular , 1:3 are found sometimes ) , then you have to either can it , or keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days , similar to any other cooked food . Else , you are colonizing bacteria in your jam , and at some point , some of them will happen to be pathogenic and cause some unpleasant disease in whoever eats the jam . Canning is a process in which the jam is closed against any new bacteria ( that 's why you have to close the jar hermetically ) and then heated enough that most old bacteria are killed . After canning , you can keep the closed jars at room temperature without any new bacteria developing .
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
It has been said : Better safe than sorry . You have n't measured the absolute sugar or acidity levels . Freezing it will do no harm . -- <URL> <URL> I 'm definitely not an expert with baking , but I 've worked with fruits in other contexts . The only time I would be worried about freezing would be if I added oil , like for a marinade or such . In your context I think freezing is fine , and sounds like it would be a convenient way to make larger batches to reuse throughout the year . PS : That puree sounds awesome , I might have to try that to marinate some chicken or pork chops !
Doughs are docked to keep them from blowing up with steam while they bake . Thus - you only do it in applications that you do n't want blown up - like blind pie crusts . Puff pastry applications , for example , you usually do want to blow up so you will get a lot of light layers . If you are baking a pastry with a filling then the filling will keep this from happening . If you are baking blind , even with pie weights , you should dock because the weights might not weight evenly and you might still get a bubble .
Depends on what you 're making . The principal differences are : Parchment is much more non-stick than aluminum foil . I have n't tried non-stick aluminum myself , so no idea how that compares . Parchment insulates ( against heat transfer ) more than aluminum . Parchment is somewhat porous ; it absorbs water . Looking at that recipe quickly , it 'd probably work fine . I 'd suggest substituting aluminum foil sprayed with Pam ( non-stick cooking spray ) . The bottom may brown a little quicker with the foil .
Flaxseed oil goes rancid quickly , and refrigeration slows down this process . So , yes , you should do as the label says ( usually a good idea anyway ) and keep it in the fridge .
Some people , and some well known Chef 's ( Micheal Ruhlman , Julia Child ) swear that trussing is necessary . I say that it is not , and that the meat between the thigh and the breast , on a trussed bird , cooks too slowly so that the rest of the bird risks overcooking . I do just the opposite and splay out the legs as much as I can . My two favourite sources for recipes ( Heston Blumenthal , and the cookbook The New Best Recipe ) do not truss for Chicken and I would n't for Turkey either . Unless you are convinced that a trussed bird cooks more evenly , I would say that it is mostly for presentation .
end question
start question
When adding eggs to scratch cake batter , why are you supposed to add them one at a time ?
The key thing here is a substance called <URL> and it is found in your Incredible , Edible Egg ! Doing the adding of the egg one-by-one , plus a few other things are ... in the service of creating a stable emulsion of liquid and fat in the batter . When this is done correctly , the cake will have a springy , even crumb , great flavor , and light texture . If the batter is not properly emulsified , the resulting cake can be uneven and flat , flavorless , and have a heavy texture . It 's even possible for the cake to " fall " or sink into itself when baking . An emulsion is the suspension of small globules of one liquid in a second liquid with which the first will not mix , such as oil and vinegar . To create an emulsion , we slowly add eggs to the butter mixture , one at a time , beating rapidly to suspend the water from the butter and egg whites in the fats from the butter and egg yolks . Lecithin , an emulsifier found in eggs , helps to stabilize the emulsion , as does aeration from steady , rapid beating . Adding the eggs slowly makes it easier disperse the liquid , and promote even suspension of liquid in fat . So to recap , liquid and fat do not mix together . The egg has Lecithin that acts like a bond that keeps those 2 together . By flooding the mixture with the substance that will act like a binder ( egg ) , you actually make it harder for all the water in the butter / eggs to bind to the fat in the butter / eggs . Picture of Emulsion Take note that in this picture , the oil to make the mayonnaise was added too fast in the failed picture . Take a look at thesproatingseed.com link below for even more information on emulsion ! This answer was made possible by <URL> , <URL> , and <URL>
My opinion - I have n't done rigorous testing : Canning softens the interior of the peach but when I have ( in my laziness ) left the skins on they stay tough and quite unpleasant tasting . I doubt it has any effect on the longevity of the product but it would make it a little less pleasant and versatile .
If the recipes were truly interesting in ' releasing the flavors ' , they 'd be sweating the onions , not sauteing them . Sauté is a higher-heat method that will cook the vegetables to create other chemical compounds , thus changing their flavor . In the case of garlic and onions , this cooking makes them dramatically sweeter . But sometimes you do n't want that -- you may want the sharp bite of the garlic , and to do that , you need to add it near the end of cooking , without it having been cooked . Also of note is that if you are cooking in an acid ( such as tomatoes ) , the acid will slow or possibly stop the vegetables from softening ... so if you want your onions to dissolve into the sauce , they need to be cooked first . If you them to add some chunkiness and the possible burst of onion when someone bites in , you want to add it later . As others have noted -- in many cases , you 'll add a given ingredient twice -- maybe some garlic to mellow out at the beginning of cooking , and then a crushed clove or two towards the end of the cooking .
Again assuming you 're using the same recipe ... I do n't think you need to leap to different kinds of flours as in <URL> . You could be using the same type ( probably all-purpose ) and even the same brand , but purchased and stored somewhere else ; it 'll end up with a different moisture content , and perhaps fluffed differently , so your volume measurements might not actually end up getting you the same amount of flour . If you 're trying to follow her recipe exactly , there 's really no harm in simply reducing the flour a bit to get the texture you remember .
Yogurt curdles at high temperatures . If you curdle a big lump of yogurt , breaking it up well is hard , and it does n't taste too well . You want to end up with tiny particles evenly dispersed in the dish . So when you add it a spoon at a time , you can mix it really well before it has had time to curdle . An alternative method is to do it the other way round . You remove a spoonfull of the curry and dump it into the yogurt , then stir immediately . When it is completely absorbed , you add the next spoon . You continue until you have something like a 1:1 mix in the bowl , then dump it into the still cooking curry and stir . The second method requires less than 30 s between spoons , but is n't necessarily less work . ( You may have to prepare a separate bowl for the yogurt ) . However , it produces even smoother results . If you have a problematic yogurt ( low fat content , high clumping tendency ) , use the second method . Edit HenrikSöderlund 's comment makes me think that my explanation was n't clear enough , so here an addition . The yogurt will curdle a few seconds after it is dumped in the pot . The point is , you do n't lumps of curdled yogurt . A lump of curdled yogurt is grainy and sour and does n't mix well with liquid . Encountering a lump of curdled yogurt in your soup/curry unpleasant in a way similar to encountering a lump of undissolved baking powder in your cake . On the other hand , A tiny droplet of curdled yogurt is too small to feel as grainy , too small an amount of acid to give you an unpleasant sensation , and small enough to form a suspension with the " broth " . That 's why you have to break up the yogurt in droplets before it curdles , and this is only physically possible when you start out with a small amount like a single spoon . It is even more important to do that when adding to the dry-ish mixture described in the edit than when adding to a simmering broth . The broth is below 100 ° C , the curry base can be much hotter , causing the yogurt to curdle quicker . Also , a liquid will dissolve the yogurt easily and disperse it , but with the dry curry base , you have to rely on stirring only to reduce the yogurt to droplets .
According to a quick search on Google , there are two other types of vinegar served in fish and chips shops along with malt vinegar . The first ( and my best guess ) is onion vinegar -- which is white vinegar that has been used to <URL> . This is clear , but at minimum contains onions and salt , and perhaps sugar and other pickling spices . ( I should note that the recipe I linked to uses malt vinegar to pickle the onions , but you could certainly achieve the same result with white vinegar . ) The second vinegar is actually called non brewed condiment , and is n't actually vinegar . It 's ascetic acid , water , and a bit of caramel coloring . The coloring would make it brown , but it would n't have the malt flavor .
They should be quite a bit softer than a standard Eureka lemon , because the skin is much thinner . That said , it should n't be like a gentle squeeze causes your finger to sink in 1/2 an inch . If that happens , I think you 've found a batch that are too old and have started to get mushy or lose moisture . Keep looking for good ones - Meyer lemons are terrifically fragrant , floral and mild .
There really are a couple separate issues that come together here : What is collagen to gelatin conversion ? When collagen converts to gelatin , it is not melting ( which is the same type of molecule , just as ice and liquid water are the same thing ) . Instead , it is being hydrated which is a chemical conversion process , where water is actually being added into the overall structure of the protein molecule , converting it into a different protein molecule . This does not happen just because of temperature , but rather because a water molecule with the right level of energy to power the process ( that is , moving fast enough ) hits the collagen molecule at the exactly proper spot to interact with it and become part of the molecule . The new molecule is called gelatin . Why does a pressure cooker facilitate effectively higher temperatures than an oven ? Most foods contain a great deal of water . On of the fundamental properties of water is that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to convert it from liquid water just at the boiling point ( 100 C / 212 F at sea level pressure ) to vapor just at the same temperature . This is called the <URL> . When a food containing water is heated in air at normal pressure , even if the air temperature is much hotter than the boiling point of water , the surface of the food can not get hotter than the boiling point , because any additional energy goes into converting the water into steam , and drying the surface . Only once the surface is dry can browning and other processes that happen above 100 C begin . However , in the inside of the food , which is still wet , the temperature continues to never be able to exceed the boiling point . Very few foods are normally cooked to the point where the interiors are dry enough to get hotter than this . In a pressure cooker , the boiling point of water is higher once the pressure is achieved ( for brevity , I will not discuss why this is so ) . For example , at 15 bar ( typical of a pressure cooker , one additional atmosphere of pressure above normal sea level pressure ) , water will not boil until about 250 F / 121 C . This permits both the surface and the interior of the food to reach higher temperatures than at normal pressure . Some cooking processes are accelerated due to this difference . Why does collagen convert faster ? Collagen conversion to gelatin is a time/temperature dependent process . That is , the higher the temperature ( within reasonable limits , before it burns or decomposes otherwise ) , the faster the conversion . Collagen will convert to gelatin at 140 F , but it will take literally several days . At 170 - 180 F ( typical internal temperatures in sea level braising ) , it takes several hours . In a pressure cooker , this time can be reduced , because the internal temperature can go higher than it can at sea level temperature . The reason for this is that collagen to gelatin conversion is a stochastic process . What this means is that it is essentially random . As a gross over simplification , imagine that the collagen molecule is a giant molecule ( it is ) with a button on it . All of the water molecules are moving around randomly , bouncing off one another . The higher the temperature , the faster they move on average . That is , at a low temperature , most molecules are moving relatively slowly , but some are almost stopped , and a very few are very fast . At a higher temperature , they move faster on average , and a slightly larger number are moving relatively very fast . Now imagine that the button will not be pressed until a water molecule happens to hit it while going fast enough to hit the button hard enough . The higher the temperature , the less time it will take for this to happen on average , because more of the water molecules are moving fast . Take this process over many , many , many collagen molecules , and you have the time/temperature conversion curve : the hotter the temperature , the faster the conversion overall . Conclusion Collagen to gelatin conversion is faster in a pressure cooker because the internal temperature of the food gets higher than is possible at atmospheric pressure , and this higher temperature speeds the stochastic gelatinization process .
If there 's leavening in the cake ( baking soda or baking powder ) that gets activated once incorporated with the rest of the ingredients , and you substantially overmix , you may lose some of its power as you help the gas escape from your batter . Unless you 're whipping it vigorously , you 're not going to be bringing enough air into the batter to make up for it . This is pretty much like letting the batter sit out on the counter for a while before baking , except faster .
Silly , silly me . As Jefromi suggested earlier , the largest contributor to the fact it takes that much longer is probably the fact that the eggs are at a different themselves at the moment I put them in . I used to store eggs in a cupboard ; now I store them in the refrigerator . That is not to say the other factors mentioned by Martha and Sklivvz do n't add to that -- they most likely do -- but this seems the most reasonable , if unanticipated , explanation . Thank you all for your answers and suggestions !
Sugar does not cause sour food to be any less acidic . The difference is purely one of perception ; we are wired by evolution to prefer sweet tastes and tend to perceive less of other tastes when a high sugar concentration is present . Sugar does not ionize - it is not basic or acidic . Acidity itself is a chemical property , and only a base ( such as baking soda or trisodium citrate ) can actually neutralize it . Two other compounds - <URL> and <URL> - actually alter our mouth chemistry and really do cause sour foods to taste sweet , without actually sweetening the food itself . But plain sugar does nothing at all - there is no chemical reaction happening . It 's just masking other tastes , not neutralizing them . The reason sugar does n't mask bitterness as effectively as sourness is that sweet and sour have roughly similar taste thresholds , while most humans are extremely sensitive to bitter tastes . We can detect quinine ( the reference solute for bitterness ) in solution at 0.5 ppm , whereas sucrose is n't normally detectable at levels below 5000 ppm . The amount of sugar needed to mask a significant bitter taste is simply not practical . If you want to neutralize a bitter taste , <URL> .
Tomatoes are mostly water anyway . They 're not going to get above boiling point whether or not you add water ( or at least not by more than a very few degrees even with salt added - less than the effect of altitude ) . On the other hand the browned bits from the bottom of the pan ( often called fond in the US though I 've never heard this in the UK and the usage in France is a bit different ) do give a nice flavour to the sauce so long as they do n't catch . If you do add water , you 'll need to simmer it down anyway , making that the stirring step still happens , just later . But adding some water fairly early can give you some flexibility . A good time to do this is when it 's starting to meet constant stirring but you need to get on with the rest of the meal . A low heat and a heavy pan help too .
Yes , it is true that we do n't add oil to the boiling water . I 'm not aware of any good reason to waste extra-virgin olive oil that way ! Some oil is always added at the end , over the sauce , when the pasta is already in the plate ! It has to be raw , so that it retains its fruit nuances and texture . If you are doing cold pasta salad and want to avoid sticky pasta , adding oil in advance wo n't help . You have instead to wash pasta under cold water to wash the starch away ( you can put the pasta in the colander directly under the running cold tap ) .
I did this as an experiment last month , because I wanted a marble cake . The part that I wanted chocolate , I just swapped out a half-cup of the flour for cocoa . I should note , however , that while it tasted great , it made a denser , slightly drier cake than did the white cake batter . Next time , I plan to add a couple of teaspoons of grapeseed oil and some extra baking powder to counteract that problem .
A few general reasons : As soegaard says , the salt is often better distributed through the food if it 's added during cooking . This is especially true for foods which have been carefully assembled ; you ca n't always just stir things up ! Some foods also take a while for flavors to soak through ; think about potatoes in a chunky soup . If you add salt only at the table , the liquid will benefit , but the potatoes will generally taste bland , like they were unsalted . Then there are things where it really needs to be cooked in - I doubt many people want to sprinkle salt on a chocolate chip cookie . Sometimes the quantities need to be pretty small , so mixing a small amount into the whole recipe is doable , while if you tried to add it at the table , even a little sprinkle would be too much . Baked goods are a good example here too . Virtually everyone likes at least a little salt , so it 's usually quite safe to add at least a little . The food will end up tasting good to many people , and then some can add more . Often the groups of people that we eat with have similar enough tastes that it 's a non-issue . Sometimes salt actually affects the cooking process , not just the flavor . It can help draw moisture out of sweating vegetables , softening them faster . It 's abrasive ( before dissolving , of course ) , and can help denature proteins . But of course , if you 're eating with people who do n't like much salt at all , and salt can easily be added at the table ( a pureed soup , for example ) , then there 's nothing wrong with waiting until then .
It 's a personal preference . It 's certainly edible , and it wo n't hurt you . I find the texture a little weird . Generally you can eat the rind of almost any cheese . However , make sure you 're not mistaking a wax coating for rind .
Traditionally , for almost all of my recipes , the vanilla is added as soon as you remove the pot from the heat . You definitely want the heat to meld the vanilla flavor with the fats , but you do n't want to cook it . I would highly recommend splitting the bean lengthwise and either adding them that way to allow milk access to the flavorful seeds , or simply add the seeds alone . I 'd opt for the former , and fish out the husks after the sauce/pudding has cooled . Or , as you say , use ground vanilla bean as-is and you 're all set .
I would n't bake them in , for a start , as I would n't be confident of what the bootlaces would do in the oven . Thinking about it , a possible way of going about it is to ' thread ' the bootlaces through the cake before you ice it . Cut the cake in half ( vertically ) , get a big needle like a darning needle or something similar , and ( carefully ) thread a few laces through , cutting them off flush with the surface , then stick the cake back together with icing or jam and pipe on the outer icing . The tricky thing will be getting them to follow curvy paths . The other thing you could do is use said needle ( or perhaps a chopstick ) to poke little tunnels through the cake , then pipe red jam into them . This would perhaps give a nicer result - it might be a bit odd to be eating a slice of cake and then to suddenly be chewing a rubbery bootlace .
There are two main base recipes for ice cream . French style ice cream contains egg yolks , which help make it soft , rich , smooth , creamy , custardy . Philadelphia style ice cream ( sometimes called American style ) has no eggs , and relies on the fat in the cream to keep it soft , but will still never be as rich and smooth as French style , and will still tend to freeze harder . You can make pretty much any ice cream in either style , including the pistachio-almond you want to make . You can look around for recipes without eggs ; I would n't be surprised if you manage to find one one . Or you can simply use a Philadelphia style base , and look at one of the recipes you found to see how to add the pistachio and almond . Depending on how rich you want it , you 'll want 2-3 cups of heavy cream for each 1 cup of milk ; about 3/4 cup of sugar should work , depending on how sweet you want it . If that 's not rich enough for you , you can even replace the milk with cream . ( You could also just go find a recipe for Philadelphia style vanilla ice cream and use that as a base - it does n't get much simpler than that . ) ( P.S. . You could also try gelato , something like <URL> - it uses corn starch as a stabilizer instead . )
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
end question
start question
When should I flavor my Bolognese ?
Salt is added at the beginning , because it takes long time to dissolve . Also , it 's maybe less important for bolognese , but you want your veggies to get infused with salty water , the taste is different from bland vegetables swimming in water salted late . Last but not least , salt 's chemical properties are important for the cooking of some dishes . The stuff which depends on volatile aroma molecules ( practically all fresh herbs ) is added at the end , after the sauce ( or stew ) is removed from the heat , because lots of the compounds are destroyed by heat , and while the flavour is still discernible , it is diminished . On the other hand , if you are using dried herbs , their most fragile molecules have long since disappeared in the air . The flavours which remain in the dried leaves are sturdier and not easily loosened from the plant matter . So by adding dried herbs early enough to allow for some simmering , you can leach more of these out of the leaf ( you are practically steeping it in the sauce ) . But if you cook them for too long , even these molecules can get damaged . Plus , there were some herbs which release unpleasantly bitter alkaloids after too long a steeping ( I do n't remember if your three are among those , but I would suspect the basil may be , as it is prone to producing off-tastes ) . So add them ~ 5 minutes before turning the heat off . Spices are a bit of a boundary case . Although dried spices do n't taste the same as fresh ones , grinding them still releases volatile molecules . So I tend to add them at the end , like fresh herbs , and I 'll advise you to do so too ( using peppercorns in a grinder ) . If I use spices which were bought pre-powdered , I throw them in earlier or together with the dried herbs .
It is perfectly safe to eat the peel in and of itself . You will need to make sure that you wash it properly , as it may be dirty . But beyond that , it 's simply a matter of taste . A lot of people do n't like the flavor / texture of the peel and so remove it . From a <URL> : Kiwi fruit skin is definitely edible , and there 's a lot of different theories about eating it . Kiwi fruit skin contains high levels of flavonoids , insoluble fiber and antioxidants : these substances all have a beneficial effect on your body 's metabolic functions ( flavonoids and antioxidants ) and on your digestive system and cardiovascular apparatus ( insoluble fiber ) . Common sense , however , should be practiced in this respect : while raw kiwi fruit skin contains these beneficial substances , it also tends to contain more than 99,95 % of of the pesticides in that particular fruit ( if they have been used ) , which largely outweighs the benefits from flavonoids and antioxidants .
Although this is partially personal preference , in general you should have the uncut ingredients on the side of your non-cutting hand . This will set up a logical flow of material which keeps you from having to reach over your cutting hand . If you chop with your right then you 'd have the uncut ingredients on your left , as after knife work your chopped ingredients will be on the right of the knife . Everything else comes from this . If you are chopping a lot of ingredients it makes sense to have a few bowls handy to put the chopped ingredients into so you can keep your board clear . My workflow is based on the assembly line principle - that is do all of one type of task before moving onto another to limit the amount you have to move : before chopping I get bowls for each of the chopped ingredients ( stackable stainless steel bowls from a kitchen supply store are great for this as they clean easy and take up little space ) , and array the bowls to the right of the board . Then I wash all the ingredients , peel them , and prep them at once rather than doing it individually per ingredient and place them to the left of the board , so I have all my ingredients ready to chop . Then I take each type of ingredient and chop them one at a time , saving any messy ( tomatoes , cheeses ) or possibly contaminating ones ( meat , seafood ) for last , as I will have to clean the board , my hands , and the knife after possible contaminators to prevent cross-contamination . As the board fills for each ingredient I will transfer the chopped ingredients to the bowls , but I wait until I need the space to continue cutting - if you move the chopped ingredients each time you finish chopping one of them then you waste time moving your arms and body around . This is the fastest way I have found to get a lot of ingredients processed . If you wash , prep , peel , chop and move each ingredient individually you spend a lot of extra time moving around the kitchen .
The exterior coating on an egg is known as the " cuticle " . It helps to protect the ( porous ) shell and minimize moisture loss , but it eventually breaks down as the chick matures and prepares to hatch . The reason that eggs in the US are typically sold under refrigeration is because they are washed with warm water and detergent to remove the large amount of bacteria that are deposited on the shell while being laid . Once the cuticle is removed the egg becomes more porous . Most bakeries that are using whole eggs will typically keep several flats out at all times to have them at room temperature . Eggs will store better and longer in the refrigerator but if being used frequently and fairly quickly , they can also be left at room temperature . Howard McGee in On Food &amp; Cooking says that egg quality deteriorates as much in one day at room temperature as it does four days under refrigeration .
You 're heating the oil past its <URL> . There is no trick or technique that will prevent oil from smoking and oxidizing ( " burning " ) at temperatures above the smoke point . It is literally being slowly destroyed at that temperature . I honestly do n't know why TV chefs are so attached to the idea of cooking with olive oil when most <URL> to compare it to other oils ( for frying purposes ) strongly indicate that it loses all or almost all of its unique taste by the end . Some cite dubious health benefits , but the low smoke point of virgin/extra virgin olive oil may also make it worse for you health-wise due to exactly what you 've witnessed - smoke and oxidation . EVOO is great as a dressing but it 's a terrible choice as a cooking oil . If you absolutely must imitate these confused TV chefs , you can either fry at very low temperatures ( as in , just barely a sizzle ) , which will take considerably more time , or used a refined ( not virgin ) olive oil which has a much higher smoke point . These would typically be the " cheap " olive oils you find in large plastic or metal containers .
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
The goal is to evaporate alcohol and concentrate flavor . If adding wine to a mirepoix , or sofrito ... some sort of early stage aromatic vegetable ... reduce the wine almost until the pan goes dry , but not dry enough to cause sticking or burning . The flavor will be absorbed into the vegetable and you are good to go . If there is another instance of wine addition that you are considering , please specify .
There are four common ways to make fruit-flavored ganaches : Use the zest of the fruit Zest the fruit ( works best for cirtus ) and place the zest in the cream as it is brought to a simmer . Strain out the zest and use the cream . Use reduced juice Fruit juice from almost any fruit may be used as a liquid flavoring in ganache . The fruit juice should be heated until it is about half of its original weight . The reduced fruit juice can often be used as a 1:1 ( depending on the type of juice you might want to increase the juice slightly ) substitute in recipes that call for a liqueur . Like a liqueur , it is stirred in slowly ( a little bit at a time ) after the ganache has been mixed together . Use a fruit-flavored liqueur A third option is to find a liqueur with the correct flavor . It should be added slowly after the chocolate and cream have combined and formed a smooth ganache , but before the ganache has cooled . Use an extract or flavoring oil You can also use an extract or flavoring oil . Extracts should be treated like liqueurs . Flavoring oils ( such as <URL> ) should be added in VERY small quantities after the ganache has become smooth . The first option may be combined with the 2nd or 3rd . If you choose to combine the 2nd and 3rd options you would have to use half of each , because doubling the liquid in a ganache will either change the consistency or cause it to break .
This scum is made from proteins . Meat contains muscle fibers ( the proteins actin and myosin ) as well as some loose proteins swimming in the fluids within the meat ( the cell plasma ) . When you cook meat , the protein-rich fluids are expelled ( that 's why overcooking makes meat dry ) . Under hot temperature , the proteins in the fluid coagulate , making it firm . It is especially noticeable in your burger , because there is more liquid flowing out quickly from your cut-up meat , but it also happens with whole pieces of meat , albeit more slowly . It is also very noticeable when cooking stock , because the stock is cooked for a long time and the liquid has time to come out from the meat . The coagulated liquid can form a single piece ( as it does with steak on a slightly oiled pan ) , but when it flows into water or oil , it mixes with it without dissolving , creating small loose particles . They float to the top , creating the frothy scum you describe . The process is perfectly natural , you 're not doing anything wrong . You can in fact eat the scum without any ill effects , but the taste is n't that great . So it is better to fish it out from the oil ( or water when making stock ) . In dry cooking ( aforementioned steak ) it is exactly this stuff ( after getting nicely browned on the hot pan ) which makes gravy taste so well , together with the dripped fat .
The USDA <URL> that " all plastic and wooden cutting boards wear out over time . Once cutting boards become excessively worn or develop hard-to-clean grooves , they should be discarded . " Other advice they offer for avoiding food contamination from cutting boards : Avoid Cross-Contamination The Meat and Poultry Hotline says that consumers may use wood or a nonporous surface for cutting raw meat and poultry . However , consider using one cutting board for fresh produce and bread and a separate one for raw meat , poultry , and seafood . This will prevent bacteria on a cutting board that is used for raw meat , poultry , or seafood from contaminating a food that requires no further cooking . Cleaning Cutting Boards To keep all cutting boards clean , the Hotline recommends washing them with hot , soapy water after each use ; then rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels . Nonporous acrylic , plastic , or glass boards and solid wood boards can be washed in a dishwasher ( laminated boards may crack and split ) . Both wooden and plastic cutting boards can be sanitized with a solution of 1 tablespoon of unscented , liquid chlorine bleach per gallon of water . Flood the surface with the bleach solution and allow it to stand for several minutes . Rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
It 's definitely just a matter of preference . I 'd expect the vegetables from the stock to be overcooked for my tastes , I like a little texture in my soup .
It wo n't be as nice if you place meat into the fresh tomato sauce . The reason why is because you are then essentially boiling the mince , so you wo n't have any caramelisation happening . That caramelisation adds a good amount of flavour to the sauce , so you 'll be losing that . Sure , the mince may dry during the frying process , but remember that it will get ' rehydrated ' anyway when you throw it into the sauce afterwards . Also , by frying the mince , you render out all the fat that can be used to fry the Mirepoix to add extra flavour . I like to add the wine to help deglaze the pot/pan once I 've fried everything , then I reduce to half , then I add the tomatoes last .
Those pickles create their own acid . Wild bacteria that can handle the very high salt content produce lactic acid , thus preserving the pickles . Botulism wo n't grow in that much salt and with how acidic the pickles are going to be when they 're done . That 's kind of the point of pickling in the first place . The instructions say to leave the lid loose because the fermentation may also produce gas and it needs to escape . You do n't want a half-fermented-sour-pickle bomb to go off in your kitchen .
Orange zest is where most of the oil is . This can be removed with a grater and some patience , or a peeler if you have a light touch , but the best way is a zester . They are fairly expensive and only do one thing , but they are the best tool for the job . <URL> makes a nice line , and I have no complains about mine . You want to avoid scraping the white pith from under the colored part of the skin , as it is bitter and does n't contain the flavor oils .
I mix dough in my kitchenAide all the time , and this happens all the time , so through the process I check the consistency and dryness and I 've developed a feel for the " just right formula " , but being ADHD I do n't go in with precise measurements each time , but that would be a good idea once perfection is found . So anywho , I take a strong spatula from time to time and cut it of the hook , to give it a nice restart with hook on outside of dough ball . but your dough needs to be dry enough that it is cleaning itself off the bowl and it will the hook too . It 's designed to find that perfect balance so that it starts wet and sticky and then as the gluten starts to web it becomes self cleaning , and the kneading is drying it a little or maybe the material is absorbing the liquid , either way it goes from dry to wet . Another thing I do if the hook is wrapped in dough instead of working against the sides , I briefly turn up the speed and that will throw the dough to the sides and sometimes clean it .
In either case store the cheese in the liquid it came in , transferring it to a clean container and covering well . Feta lasts reasonably well , but mozzarella only keeps well for a couple of days .
From a cooking perspective any imitation sauce or marinade is never going to deliver the quality that venison has to deliver . We have a massive deer farm close and the price is still ridiculous . My suggestion is that you find a good butcher that will age beef for you on the bone , or you could age it yourself if you have a climate control area to keep it at the correct temperature . Anything over 30 days on the bone will start to give you the gaming flavour you are craving . Nothing is going to match deer , but aged beef or really any type of cattle ( eg buffalo etc ) will give you the gaminess if it is aged . Restaurants are getting up to 180 days , which I could only imagine would melt in your mouth but the flavour would be intense .
First of all , people indeed often add some seasoning in the beginning , but are usually careful with the amount , especially with salt . Flavor-wise , you could add it at the end , after the reduction and be fine . However , salt can also affect the process of cooking . For instance , it can draw moisture out of some vegetables when frying them first , meaning that they will be cooked a bit faster . That is why some salt can be added at the beginning . At the end , after the reduction , you should taste and add some more seasoning , if needed .
Most cakes freeze extremely well -- especially cakes that are not iced , such as bundt cakes . Wrap the cake in plastic wrap , then aluminum foil , and freeze . For cupcakes or slices , you can put them in a freezer bag . If you are going to freeze a whole cake , it is better to frost it after thawing , as the icing can be tricky . If you have icing , you can put the cake in the freezer long enough for the icing to br firm , and then wrap and freeze -- however , thawing can be tricky as you might get a bit of condensation , which can affect the texture of the frosting . EDIT in response to question about a plastic box , and why the double layering : Boxes consume space extra space , often at a premium in a freezer , and offer air gaps in which freezer burn is more likely . Not all plastic is food-safe . The food-safe plastic wrap is for direct contact with the cake but is gas permeable . I suppose you could just go directly to foil , but things are more likely to stick to it . The foil provides a gas and moisture barrier ( and light , but that is less of a problem in the freezer ) . The direct contact with the with the cake eliminates the air gaps , making freezer burn much less likely .
end question
start question
Why did my peanut butter sauce split ?
You need to 1 ) increase the emulsification , and 2 ) reduce the amount of time the sauce is very hot . You can try adding honey or mustard to the sauce , that will improve emulsification . You can also hit it with a stick blender which will do a much better job of breaking it up than can be done by hand . Also it may look ok after a few hours but who knows how much separation is starting to happen at a very small scale and will accelerate when it hits heat . Add the sauce at the last possible moment before plating . It is n't going to benefit from cooking , and it is n't going to marinade into the cooked food , so do n't have it in any longer than it takes for it to warm up . 20 seconds is probably all it will take .
Hmm . I would say that pumpkins maybe have a slight bit of acidity , but I would never think of them as distinctly sour . I suppose it could be the variety you are using . Also , taste your stock by itself to make sure it is n't contributing an unwanted sour note . All of that said , it may just be one of those expectation things . We are used to pumpkin in a sweet context , and your brain wants that little bit of sugar there to match the template , so it seems sour without it . If you really want to test this out further , try making a small batch of the same recipe with no spices and plain water to see if it is truly the pumpkin that seems sour to you .
Minerals , naturally found in salt whether it 's mined or evaporated ; and believe it or not , water . <URL> In the US , the FDA requires that salt must not contain more than 2.5 % minerals other than NaCl and still call itself salt . That 2.5 % does not include water . <URL> Your numbers for sodium content seem a bit low , but not extremely so , especially for a very unrefined , wet salt . The more refined the salt , the less trace minerals it will contain . Outside the US , it 's possible that your salt also contains added iodine , fluoride , folic acid and/or anti-caking agents , but in the US those would be listed among the ingredients , and would be included in that 2.5 % . Only iodine and anti-caking agents are common in the US . Plus , nutritional information labels have legal margins of error . If and when they can , they 'll be slick . Lower sodium looks good on a nutritional label .
You 've got this all mixed up ! Unless you 're deglazing to do a pan sauce , the steak should be the LAST thing cooked . It 's the centerpiece of the dish and the most expensive part , and should n't have a chance to get cold while you cook the other parts . Saving cleaning on a single saucepan is not worth eating cold steak . You MUST use a stainless or cast-iron for this . As others touch on , teflon is not safe for searing , and fast temperature changes will wreck it . Here 's how to do things : Julienne onions to saute , prepare and measure stock , trim fat from steak , cut or butterfly it if needed ( this is your mise en place ) . Start preheating saute pan for onions Start butter melting in saucepan for roux Prepare roux and saute onions at same time , then add stock to roux , whisk , and season Transfer onions to bowl , cover to keep hot , and start to preheat pan for searing steak Cook steak while finishing sauce as needed , then rest it appropriately Plate steak , garnish , sauce , and serve Alternately , here 's another approach : Mise en place ( prep ingredients , optionally pre-measure them ) Prepare sauce in advance , set aside or keep hot . Or , even do it the day before and reheat it . It 's a roux-based sauce ; it wo n't go bad in the fridge , and will reheat beautifully . Saute onions . Or , caramelize onions beforehand , and just reheat them briefly and add . Cook steak Plate , sauce , serve And , finally the deglazed pan sauce way Mise en place Sautee onions . Set aside in bowl ( or on a serving plate ) Cook steak Throw heavy cream or red wine in to pan , and deglaze by scraping vigorously with a utensil and stirring as it boils vigorously Quickly season this , and throw in the onions , a few pinches of parsley , pepper , salt , garlic , and paprika , plus optionally thyme Congrats , you now have a pan sauce with onions to throw on your steak In a professional kitchen , you 'd have your onions pre-sauteed or sauteeing at the same time as the steak , and your sauce will be prepared in bulk , beforehand . You 'd only have to cook the steak and briefly heat or season the other two parts .
Worcestershire Sauce is added where the recipe wants a fast way to develop or add savoury richness , umami . It 's often used where umami would develop over time with slow careful cooking ( and heavy bottomed pans ) . Adding this extra ingredient is a good cheat where you just want that kick without the wait .
Soaking beans will not soften them . If done for a very long time ( i.e. , days ) , some beans will eventually begin to sprout or ferment , at which point they will become softer . But that is generally not desirable for basic cooking . Instead , you 'll need to cook the beans to get them to soften . Bring to a slow boil and then simmer until the interior is the desired texture . ( A common test is to take a few beans out on a spoon and blow on them ; if the outside of the bean breaks open a bit when you blow , they are likely soft and cooked through . ) By the way , the main purpose of soaking is to hydrate the seed coat ( the outer covering of the beans ) . Once that happens , the moisture can more easily penetrate the interior when cooked , allowing the beans to soften . If you do n't soak , you 'll simply waste the first part of your cooking hydrating the seed coat . Depending on the type of beans , their age , and other factors , that could increase your cooking time by anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour or so . ( For more details , see my previous answer to another question <URL> . ) Also , do NOT try using an acid . Acids can actually toughen the seed coat , making the beans take longer to cook and soften . This is one of the reasons chili recipes ( for example ) often recommend cooking the beans first , before adding to acidic ingredients like tomatoes . ( Note that cooking times for beans and lentils can vary significantly , depending on type of bean and age . For a mixed bean soup , I 'd expect about 1-2 hours of simmering for pre-soaked beans , and perhaps as many as 3 hours . Older beans can take longer , and I 've occasionally had old batches of dried beans which never quite softened to a consistent texture . ) EDIT : Just to add onto Joe 's great advice from the Dry Bean Council , Harold McGee has this to say about beans which never soften ( from On Food and Cooking ) : " Hard-to-cook " beans ... are normal when harvested , but become resistant to softening when they 're stored for a long time -- months -- at warm temperatures and high humidities . This resistance results from a number of changes in bean cell walls and interiors , including the formation of woody lignin , the conversion of phenolic compounds into tannins that cross-link proteins to form a water-resistant coating around the starch granules . There 's no way to reverse these changes and make hard-to-cook beans as soft as regular beans . And there 's no way to spot them before cooking . Once cooked , they 're likely to be smaller than normal and so may be picked out before serving . McGee also mentions that occasionally you may encounter batches of " hard-seed " beans , which hardened during particularly hot and humid growing conditions . In such cases , the beans will be tough no matter how early they are used ; they may take much longer to cook than usual ( and sometimes may never soften ) .
Gluten is what makes doughs chewy , and gluten is associated with high protein flour , so you should try and get low protein ( " soft " ) flour . Also , the colder your fat ( i.e. , butter ) the flakier and crispier your crust will be . You also may want to substitute some of the butter for lard or shortening ; the lack of water in the lard will also help the crust become crispy and avoid gluten formation associated with hydration of the flour . Note that you can not substitute lard/shortening for butter in an equal ratio ; you should try and find a recipe that specifically calls for it to get the ratio correct . As <URL> noted , you can also blind bake the crust to start its cooking process ( but as <URL> warns , you may not be able to call it a " pie " after that ! ) . Finally , it may be the case that your pie filling is too moist and therefore makes the interior of the crust very soggy . I 've found that almost all good apple pie recipes call for pre-cooking the apples to remove a lot of their moisture before putting them in the crust .
As Michael mentioned , a shaken vinaigrette is only going to stay together primarily while you 're shaking it . If it 's been staying together long consider yourself lucky all the other times ... this time was what should be " normal " . The more particulate such as herbs , mustard , spices , etc. that you have in a vinaigrette the quicker it will emulsify and the longer it will stay emulsified . The particles of spice and herbs act as physical barriers that help to interrupt the droplets of oil so that they are n't able to coalesce and come together as they can when you have just oil and vinegar/acid . When doing vinaigrettes by hand using a whisk , start with your acid and add the salt along with anything else , leaving the oil last . Adding salt to the acid component will help it to better dissolve so you get a truer reading on the flavor . When it 's added last as it 's usually written in most recipes : " season to taste with salt and pepper " , the salt usually has n't dissolved by the time you taste it and you 're much more likely to add too much , resulting in a dressing that 's a bit saltier than you might like . The manner in which you drizzle the oil and manner in which you whisk it when doing by hand , are also important factors . When whisking vinagirettes by hand , drizzle the oil form a higher level so that as it hits the bowl you have a finer stream that 's easier to emulsify . Also , use a back and forth " zig-zag " motion rather than a circular whisking motion . The " zig-zag " motion will allow the wires of the whisk to better break up the oil into droplets and emulsify them with the acid . Using a circular motion creates a vortex in the center of the acid where the oil tends to pool , resulting in an oily vinaigrette . The great part of using an immersion blender ( aka stick or wand blender ) is that EVERYTHING can go in at once . Use a container that 's deeper than it is wide ( such as 2 cup liquid measure ) so that there 's plenty of depth for the liquid . Garlic , shallots and herbs can even go in whole . The immersion blender will blend up your garlic , etc. and emulsify the oil with the vinegar . An immersion blender or a standard blender provide you with a the most stable vinaigrette .
You can rescue it by starting the process again , with an egg yolk in a bowl over a bain-marie which you whisk until it starts to thicken a little . then incorporate a little warm melted butter into the egg yolk . Once this is incorporated you can slowly start to add the split hollandaise and this should then incorporate into the new base , unsplit . There is a video <URL>
It 's definitely a very real reaction . I 'm not sure exactly what in the squash it is that causes it , but since different people react differently - some people have strong reactions like you , some people have mild ones , and some have no problem at all - it seems to be some sort of mild allergic reaction . It 's often called contact dermatitis , but that 's a very generic term and does n't really mean anything you do n't already know . I 'm not sure exactly what component of the squash it is that causes it , but I do n't think it 's carotene or potassium . It 's likely some more complex molecule that tends to be present in various winter squashes . Images from <URL> . You can avoid it by completely wearing gloves while working with the squash , or if you 're lucky , you have someone else with you who can handle the squash without problems . For many purposes , like soup , you can also simply cut the squash in half , roast it , then scoop out the good stuff . But if you do really need to peel it and cut into chunks , your best hope is just to try to avoid touching it too much . You 'll also want to wash your hands immediately after , or even a few times while you 're cutting if it takes a while . If you do end up with this despite your best efforts , cortisone cream can help relieve the reaction afterward . ( And as for your soup , there 's nothing wrong with letting more moisture escape in exchange for browning . You can always just add more water or stock back into the soup . This can even be a good thing , since it lets you replace water with a more flavorful liquid . )
First , try proofing your yeast ( mix 110 ° F water , a little sugar , and a little yeast in a small container ; confirm that it foams ) . It may be that your yeast is ( well ) past its prime . That 's the most likely reason I can think of that your dough did n't rise . Second reason could be that while mixing , the dough got too hot -- heat will kill yeast . Yeast dies somewhere around 130 ° F , but really you want to keep it much cooler than that . If its getting too hot , consider starting with colder ingredients ( e.g. , ignore the instruction to warm the milk ) . Finally , I 'd suggest using recipes that are by weight ; flour is much easier to measure by weight . You may be using a different scooping technique than the recipe author . Also -- there is something weird about that recipe . It lists 3 1/2 cups flour in the ingredients , but then only has you add 2 1/2 cups in the steps . I suspect that is a mistake , and explains the batter-like consistency you got .
I have a theory about your omelette ( and sadly , no means to test it ) . But I think it is plausible , please feel free to point out logical errors . I think that the unappetizing coloring is due to the creation of sulfur salts in your pan . Egg whites are rich in sulfur , as are all alliums ( including chives ) . If you heat them enough ( you do n't mention whether you overcooked the omelette , but it happens often enough ) , the heat changes the molecules in which the sulfur is bound , and the sulfur atoms ( or sulfur containing ions ) are free to react with whatever they find around . If they happen to find iron or copper , they form sulfides and sulfates with them . These sulfides and sulfates have colors ranging from blue to green , and pure iron sulfide is black . A mixture of them with the yellow yolk can easily look gray , especially when the color is desaturated through the addition of white cream cheese . You say you used a coated pan , but there are still possible sources for the iron and copper . First , nuts contain trace elements , including iron and copper . Second , yolks too contain iron ( in fact , the bluish coloring on the surface of a hard boiled yolk is an iron sulfide created when the proteins in the egg white denaturated from the heat ) . Third , you ca n't exclude contamination of the ingredients ( plants sometimes store metal ions from the environment ) . I have no way to prove any of the above , but at least it sounds like a good working theory . But I will understand if you are n't eager to reproduce in order to investigate the effect closer .
Peanut butter is just ground roasted peanuts essentially . The american style peanut butter tends to be sweetened , as well as having extra oil and salt . But they are only slight flavour/texture enhancers ( not that I think sugar enhances it , UK peanut butter is unsweetened usually ) . Satay sauces are essentially just peanut butter sauces , roast some peanuts , grind them , then add to some lightly fried shallots and garlic , with chilli , soy sauce , lemon juice , salt , sugar and if you want it authentic probably some nam pla ( fish sauce ) , or blachan ( shrimp paste ) , all of the above to taste . Thin with water and reduce to the consistency you desire .
You are probably stirring the pudding too much . Cornstarch starts thickening at about 205 ° F/95 ° C . Once the pudding has got to that point and has thickened , stop stirring , otherwise you will interfere with the starch formation that causes the thickening . Using electric beaters probably means you are missing the point when the pudding has thickened and quickly beating the living daylights out of any starch formation that has occurred . It may also be the case that you are beating so much air into the pudding that it just does n't get hot enough to activate the cornstarch in the first place . I would use @ecnerwal 's suggestion of a double boiler , along with a balloon whisk , and some patience .
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
You already have mentioned the primary reason for adding the flour : to thicken the chowder . The author of this particular recipe has added it to the recipe while you are sauteeing the aromatics , I infer . This creates , in essence , a quick roux , cooking some of the raw taste out of the flour , and helping ensure that you will not get lumps . You could certainly thicken the chowder later with a flour slurry , for example , but this method is convenient and effective in this type of recipe .
If the custard over baked , the liquid could have separated from the solid . The creme will look loose , or semi-liquid , when it is removed from the oven after gently baking bain marie ( created by the water poured around the ramekins , placed in a larger container ) . The custard sets during cooling , first on a rack and then in the frig . The sugar may have absorbed the liquid , and became more of a caramel as it was heated , rather than the burnt ( brulee ) crust .
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
I would not recommend doing so . The technique you describe is known as <URL> , which as you might guess from the name is a <URL> in the French culinary tradition . It translates literally to " mount with butter " and is used to provide a rich , velvety mouthfeel to both white and brown sauces . By contrast , <URL> sauce originates in Japanese cuisine , which is a whole different tradition . Like Chinese cuisine and other east Asian cooking , Japanese cuisine does n't make use of much dairy , <URL> . Teriyaki sauce is generally a <URL> that gets its richness from a high proportion of sugar and can be thickened with cornstarch ( as seen in <URL> ) . You could try mounting a teriyaki sauce with butter , but my suspicion is that you might cause some of the sugar in the glaze to seize and crystallize by introducing cold butter ( as typically recommended when mounting ) and it would not be common in the culinary tradition that teriyaki comes to us from . So you can skip this step without causing any harm to your sauce or offense to any French or Japanese bystanders .
Unfortunately , cornstarch does that . It does not reheat well . Potato starch is even worse , and that 's the thickener in Knorr 's Leek Soup . If you want to reheat something thickened , your best bet is to thicken it with a roux . There are other more modern thickeners ( think molecular gastronomy ) , but I do n't know much about those .
end question
start question
Why is my lemon juice fizzing and smelling like yeast ?
It sounds like fermentation to me . That 's what you 'd expect when you 're making mead or hard apple cider . I 'd personally dispose of it ... partially because I ca n't think of a good use for alcoholic lemon juice , but also because you do n't know exactly what the bug is doing the fermentation .
Okay , I did some more thorough searching and found <URL> . Apparently my mistake was that I was letting them ( the doughnuts ) cool off , and according to the article : Glaze is the easiest way to sugar-up a donut . But there are a few things you need to remember . First and foremost ... only glaze donuts when they 're warm . If you do it when they 've cooled the glaze just soaks in and get goopy .
The primary difference between a dumpling and a noodle , besides shape , is leavening . Dumplings usually have either egg or baking powder to make them lighter . There 's considerable bleedover in terminology here . It 's reminiscent of the difficulty of defining " chowder " . You 're always finding a counterexample . I would n't be surprised if someone came up with something called gnocchi , gnochs , gnocchetti , that has no leavening . I can think of two myself . Gnocchetti alla romana are semolina " dumplings " sometimes leavened with egg , particularly when they contain spinach , but more often not . Gnocchetti sardi are dry pasta shapes that kind of look like thin potato gnocchi .
Almost all fermented dairy products curdle under heat . When this happens , the milk proteins bind to each other into a rubbery mesh , which ca n't contain all the moisture from the original product , and it is squeezed out . Creme fraîche tends to be an exception . It contains a high amount of fat . This fat lubricates the proteins and gets in the way , so they ca n't bind to each other and form the mesh . However , the fat content of creme fraîche is n't all that high ( just enough to allow for the effect I described ) , so it is finicky when heated . As you do n't seem to have acid in the recipe , the trouble probably comes from water . It dilutes the creme fraîche , making it more probable that proteins will meet and bind without a fat droplet coming in the way . So , if you want to keep the recipe as authentic as possible , try to reduce the amount of water exuded by the other ingredients . The first thing to check is whether you are actually using creme fraîche . Sometimes people make a substitution with a similar product , but continue calling it the name of the original product . Sour cream , smetana , creme legere , plant substitutes , etc. wo n't work in your case - 30 % fat is the minimum for baking , the higher the fat content , the better is it suited . For the rest of the answer , I am assuming that you are using the creme fraîche . My suggestion would be to drain the broccoly very well ( I assume you mean blanched or nuked broccoli , baking them in the oven would be strange ) , maybe even try to use a salad dryer . If the salmon comes from a vacuum package , drain it well too , and pat it dry with a paper towel . Take the potatoes out of the boiling pot and leave them alone for a while , the cooling startch will absorb some moisture . Also , use a mealy type of potatoes , the starch in these could absorb some liquid from the other ingredients . Another thing which should help in any case is to reduce the oven temperature , as the gentler heat will affect the creme fraîche less . If this fails , you should consider adding other ingredients to stabilize the creme fraîche . It will change the taste , but not necessarily for the worse . A stabilizer should help . For dairy , carrageenan is very effective and its taste is not noticeable , but most people do n't have it in the kitchen . Starch will also act as stabilizer , take just a small portion , maybe a teaspoonful per 200 g creme fraîche . Dissolve it in a teaspoonful of cold water before adding it . You could also use flour . Both will affect the taste somewhat , the flour will be more pronounced . The second solution would be to raise the fat content . Adding pure fat is counterproductive , as the fat droplets in dairy products are much smaller than what your blender would achieve . But you could mix or substitute the creme fraîche using a dairy product with a higher fat content . Mascarpone , kaymak , katuk , clotted cream , or creme double should work . Or maybe cream cheese , even if it does n't have a higher fat content , because it contains stabilizers . A full substitution will alter the taste substantially , but a partial one will probably be OK . If all else fails , you could try if you ca n't change the recipe to accommodate a more traditional gratin liquid ( how is the stuff called in English ? ) . While I agree that pure creme fraîche will work best with what you listed , a mixture of eggs ( or just yolks to keep it more liquid ) , milk , the creme fraîche , and a tiny bit of flour would also provide a moist binding . Use less eggs/yolks than in a normal gratin to keep it from setting too much . It will be a big change , but if nothing else works , it will still taste much better than curdled creme fraîche . Or if you are a risk-embracing nature , you can continue using pure creme fraîche , just with the moisture reducing techniques , hoping that this will be enough . Each time it separates , you should drain the whole dish , catching the liquid . Scum off the curds , or strain them . The whey will have a nice taste , similar to a stock . Take out some new creme fraîche ( not heated ) , and mix it with the liquid . ( Reduce it first to avoid making it too liquid ) . Add it back to the remaining ingredients . This will keep the taste even if the curdling occurs , but will require lots of work .
They 're likely referring to di-ammonium phosphate , which is used in wine making and mead brewing , as it provides nitrogen to accelerate the yeast growth . I found a site giving <URL> as a replacement , but it might be easier ( and safer ) to just go to a shop that specializes in brewing or wine making supplies and getting the right stuff . ( I have no idea how expensive it is , as I 've never done it ) Your other option would be to find an alternate recipe that does n't call for it ... it might take longer to brew , though .
<URL> When cooking seeds and nuts , you are essentially carmelizing various basic sugars and amino acids ( the components of protiens ) via the malliard reaction . This is what gives a grilled steak a different flavor than a boiled one , just like white table sugar has a different flavor from carmelized sugar via carmelization . When cooking anything you are trying to add flavor to , there is a point where it goes from tasty to not-tasty . Think of a charred steak or burnt caramel . Some items that we expect a certain amount of bitterness from ( coffee , chocolate , etc ) are pleasant to smell because they smell like they will taste ; a little bitter and likely robust . When you are expecting a buttery , nutty taste , the smell of chocolate or coffee may seem pleasant , but it tends to signify the seeds have cooked to that doness , which is probably not an ideal one for that item . A medium-well tuna steak may smell nice , but ( arguably ) wo n't taste as nice as a rare/medium-rare steak . You essentially burnt your seeds . ( no snickering ! ) I would recommend in the future you pull them out of the oven a few minutes before they smell like you want them to . They will keep cooking on or off the pan for a couple minutes due to residual heat .
Lemon juice and lemon zest have a different taste . Lemon juice has obviously more water , is tart ( adds fruitiness and freshness to the dish ) and the aroma is not as intense as in the zest . If you bake a cake or cookies it 's often more desirable to use lemon zest because it does n't mess up the water-solids-ratio and what you often want is a rather sweet cake/cookie than a tart one . In contrast often the cookie glaze should be somewhat tart - you can use both zest and juice . I have the impression that the zest has a bitter component . So you have to decide if you want to have a tart component in your dish and whether the dish tolerates additional liquid . Acid is not only important in taste but also in the further " food chemistry " . As Jay pointed out , acid can make milk curdle . Also , cooking with acid in aluminium <URL> ( and probably health-wise , too , but that 's another topic ) . Someone else asked a question in the opposite direction : <URL>
Gravy is supposed to be opaque and is a result of using flour as the thickener . If you want clear gravy , like what you would get in a Chinese restaurant , then you need to use corn starch or arrowroot as your thickener . But the opacity is considered to be a good thing . It 's the canned stuff you buy in the store that is clear .
Were your blueberries grainy ? I occasionally get a pint that have a grainy texture . I 've heard that this means they are n't quite fresh , but they usually taste just fine despite the texture . I 'm not sure if this particular graininess translates to a jam though . Jam can also get grainy from sugar that is n't fully dissolved . This can happen more easily with larger batches , since the fruit can start to boil before the sugar is fully dissolved . For your particular recipe , perhaps a more thorough stirring after adding the sugar would help . You should be able to turn the heat down once you add the sugar so that you can stir it thoroughly before going back to high heat to boil for that 1 minute .
It 's simply not ripe yet Do n't buy avocado 's or any other fruit and vegetable in pre-packed bags , you can not tell what state they are in Buy from a local grocer whom you can trust , and therefore can get honest answers on the state of the produce Avocados are usually sold unripe for shipping reasons . Buy ahead of need , and let them ripen at room temperature ( 2 to 7 days ) . They will keep in the fridge if you need them latter than that To recover an peeled unripe avocado , you can cube it , and then cook it in the microwave in short bursts to soften it . It 's only good for salsa or sauce at that point though . One advantage of slightly cooking avocado is that the green colour becomes more intense , I suspect this explains the guacamole colour from many fast food vendors :-)
It sounds like your chicken was simply overcooked . If you used a built in pop-up timer , these almost always are set to a temperature which will overcook your poultry . Some authorities recommend cooking white meat to 170 F ( 77 C ) , but this will leave your chicken dry and overcooked . My personal preference is to cook white meat to about 158 F ( 70 C ) in the oven , and then let carry over cooking bring it up a couple more degrees while it rests . This should leave your white meat much more succulent . Similarly , dark meat should be cooked to a temperature ( to my preference ) of at least 165 F ( 74 C ) although it is much more tolerant of being overcooked . This can be tricky when roasting a whole chicken . Some things you can do help cook a chicken more evenly : Cut it into parts , and roast the parts ( obviously , this is ideal as each can be removed when done ) Use a high quality probe or instant read thermometer , in the thickest part of the breast or thigh , to get an accurate internal reading . To ensure accuracy , check a couple of spots , and apply the lowest temperature . If you do n't want to fully cut it up , <URL> <URL> the chicken ( although I personally prefer simply to not overcook in the first place )
I 'm culling a lot of information from one of my <URL> for this one . Yes , limes have a slightly higher acid content ( on average ) than lemons do - about 6 % for limes , compared to 4.5 % for lemons . More importantly for their flavor , lemons have about 2 % total sugar , while limes have somewhere between 0.5 % and 0.75 % . Sugar/sweetness has quite a suppressive effect on the perception of sourness , so lemon juice will most likely taste a bit less sour than lime . The composition of acids in the two also differ . The acid in lemon juice is almost entirely <URL> , which also makes up most of the acid in limes . However , limes include about 10 % each of <URL> and <URL> which have an effect on their flavor . Malic acid is most recognizable as the sour flavor from tart apples and rhubarb . About succinic acid , Wikipedia states : It lends to fermented beverages such as wine and beer a common taste that is a combination of saltiness , bitterness and acidity . Personally , I think the difference is perceptible in beverages , but less so in cooking . Culturally , lime would most certainly be the traditional choice for Latin American cuisine . Lime is much more readily available in Central and South America ( three of the <URL> are located there ) . How the difference in acid content would contribute to the browning of avocados is more questionable . EDIT : Here 's <URL> , suggesting that <URL> ( vitamin C ) is more effective at preventing avocado browning than citric acid . Which is an interesting wrinkle , because lemons contain significantly more vitamin C than limes do ... EDIT 2 : And along comes Jolenealaska , with <URL> that seems to undermine the entire assumption that acid reduces browning of avocado at all ! Seems like the real secret may just be keeping your avocados either uncut , or refrigerated and tightly wrapped if you have to cut them ahead of service .
I think it all got too hot , but there might be other problems . Did you mix the cornstarch in completely ? Leaving undissolved cornstarch is a sure way to obtain ' blobs ' . Did you pour the hot milk onto the egg-mixture ? You should do that very slowly and whisk vigorously ( while trying to splash everything ) . If the eggs get too hot , they will coagulate . Did you use a double boiler ? Putting the pan on an open flame will make the bottom too hot and the eggs will coagulate . Even if you did use a double boiler , did you whisk regularly while heating ? The eggs at the bottom will become far warmer than the eggs in the center ... As rumtscho mentioned , a thermometer will be useful for monitoring the done-ness of the custard . Generally , a fully cooked custard should not exceed 80 ° C ; it begins setting at 70 ° C. Source : <URL>
I also typically use bottled lemon juice , as my budget does not allow for fresh lemons . <URL> says you should use the bottle within a week , but I 've had success with keeping it much , much longer . That said , this is one item that will not usually work well past its best-by date , I 've found . Maybe in the future , you could freeze it in cubes if you ca n't use it soon enough ?
It 's definitely a very real reaction . I 'm not sure exactly what in the squash it is that causes it , but since different people react differently - some people have strong reactions like you , some people have mild ones , and some have no problem at all - it seems to be some sort of mild allergic reaction . It 's often called contact dermatitis , but that 's a very generic term and does n't really mean anything you do n't already know . I 'm not sure exactly what component of the squash it is that causes it , but I do n't think it 's carotene or potassium . It 's likely some more complex molecule that tends to be present in various winter squashes . Images from <URL> . You can avoid it by completely wearing gloves while working with the squash , or if you 're lucky , you have someone else with you who can handle the squash without problems . For many purposes , like soup , you can also simply cut the squash in half , roast it , then scoop out the good stuff . But if you do really need to peel it and cut into chunks , your best hope is just to try to avoid touching it too much . You 'll also want to wash your hands immediately after , or even a few times while you 're cutting if it takes a while . If you do end up with this despite your best efforts , cortisone cream can help relieve the reaction afterward . ( And as for your soup , there 's nothing wrong with letting more moisture escape in exchange for browning . You can always just add more water or stock back into the soup . This can even be a good thing , since it lets you replace water with a more flavorful liquid . )
To balance acidity , add sugar . It 's how most mayonnaise manages to be acidic enough to prevent bacteria growth ( pH 4.6 or lower ) , while still having a balanced and edible flavor . You might get an edible result with honey , but sugar is more of a neutral flavor , so I would use that first . Using a jigger of Dijon mustard is not beyond the pale , as well ... might help hide the acid , to a lesser extent .
Most pestos use olive oil , which solidifies at around 6 degrees celsius - just over the temperature of the average fridge . The shop-bought pestos you buy probably adulterate the olive oil with other kinds of oils . In any case , you 'll be able to eat your pesto just by leaving it out at room temperature for a few hours , or by just scooping it out and adding to your hot pasta .
The existing answers already explain why yeast and baking powder wo n't work together . But even if they did , you would n't have a reason to use them . You seem to think that fluffiness depends on the amount of gas produced by the leaveners . In fact , it depends on both the gas and the ability of the dough to trap that gas . If you produce too much gas ( no matter whether through yeast or through baking powder ) , then the fluffiness will be less than when using the optimal amount of leavener . This happens because your dough can not hold the gas and the bubbles break , resulting in the dough deflating like a punctured tire . So even if combining two leaveners would have resulted in more " blowing big " action ( which it does n't , see the other answers ) , you would not end up with a fluffier end product . If you want fluffy muffins , you have to use a recipe and a technique which is best capable of retaining the gas produced by the baking powder . The amount of gas production is not a bottleneck .
I have this recipe on my short list to try : <URL> Few things I 've noticed in her recipe and my own experience with pies containing whole lemons . The meyer lemons as she notes make a huge difference . Mind you their growing season is short and they are not available everywhere . If you have access to them , then all the better . Otherwise find the sweetest variety you can . If you can , select lemons with as thin rinds as possible . That all said , the shaker pie is designed to be sweet , sour and bitter . How bitter depends on the above .
I 'm not a chemist but I 'm pretty sure it has to do with the things that happen to starches in general . In particular , the chemistry is n't about the wheat gluten , it 's about starch . Thus , if you feel your quinoa pasta is coming out too gummy or mushy on the outside , you might try it . ( If your pasta is already mushy or gummy , how much worse could it get ? ) I use vinegar in pasta water with Barilla Plus , which has a lot of wheat but also other stuff , and it causes no problems . I will also say that with really good pasta like that it 's a little hard to tell the difference . I have a box of fancy Italian super-starchy pasta that I should try it on . edit -- whoa I just re-read the last line of your question , and now I 'm confused . " Keep it starchy " ? No , that 's not what acid does . The intent is to keep the pasta " pasta-like " in the water ; to make sure that the outer layers of the pasta do n't get " waterlogged " before they firm up from the heat . Is that what you mean by " keep it starchy " ?
end question
start question
How to work with Dried Mushrooms ?
Soak them for a while in warm water , and you 'll be able to use them , yes . However It is equally important to know that you should reserve the liquid for its essential mushroomness , and yet also that said reserved liquid should be run through a coffee filter to remove grit .
Okay , I undeleted my OP to this question ( to be honest , not sure how similar the two are ... , never checked that closely ) . The most important thing to watch for in terms of the ' silkiness ' would be the mixing and ingredient temp . When all ingredients are at room temp , they homogonize much quicker , and require far less mixing , therefore less air is incorporated , making for a denser product . I think this should help . Short of that , it could be recipe . A perfect cheesecake recipe is hard to find ( luckily , I have one ) . Can I post it here ? I do n't think it 's allowed ... Answer I typed yesterday ( sorry if it is essentially a dupe ) ... I ' @ work , do n't have time to check too closely ... I have made thousands of cheesecakes . My pastry chef taught me how a method that has always worked : Always use room temperature ingredients . NEVER overmix , incorporation of air is your enemy Set your oven to 300 F ( sorry , in Canada we are metric , but use Farenheit for baking ) . Place your cheesecake in a water bath . Bake for 30 minutes . Turn off the oven and open its door , allow the cheesecake to rest for 30 minutes , sitting in the oven in this state . After the thirty minute rest , carefully close the door , and set the oven to 300 F again . Bake another 30 minutes ( I have sometimes had to go to 40 minutes depending on oven ) . And that 's it . Works every time . I am so thankful he taught me this . As an added bonus , you will get a cake that is flat like a board , with no cracks .
Steel cut oats take a lot longer to cook than rolled or quick oats . It 's unlikely they will completely cook before the cookie is done . You could try it , but I 'd recommend presoaking them in hot water for an hour , or maybe even parboiling them for a few minutes . You 'd need to adjust your wet ingredients accordingly as well .
To get a shiny , flaky , crackly , light-colored crust on the top of your brownies , there are two effective changes you can make : Beat the brownie batter for longer after adding the eggs . Doing this increases the crust , which is actually meringue . This is what you should try with your box mix , since the sugar is already included in box . Use white sugar ( granulated sugar ) with a from-scratch brownie recipe . Brown sugar and corn syrup contain more moisture than white sugar , which will reduce the shiny crackly crust .
Use one teaspoon of dried zest for one tablespoon of fresh zest , which is about what you get from a lemon . Most foods dry to about a third their original size , so I would use one third of the amount called for . Lemons vary a great deal in size , but the recipe probably means one tablespoon of fresh zest , which is normal for " medium " sized lemons . Something to watch out for is that most cheap " dried lemon peel " products are actually made from the zest and a bit of the pith , which will both give you a bitter flavor and short you some of the lemon flavor you expect . Look closely at the zest you buy , if you can see that the individual pieces have two distinct layers , or a pale yellow or white color , steer clear of that brand . This is probably a " get what you pay for " situation , so spring for the higher end lemon zest . I have also had great luck drying my own lemon zest . Unless your kitchen is humid , it will probably dry in a day or two just sitting on a plate on the counter .
Dry rubs are one case that I can think of where dry is specifically necessary , so you can grind them up properly . The main advantage to dry herbs is that they 're available year round . When you 're dealing with winter dishes , dry herbs would 've been the norm to have used at that time . If you are going to substitute , you 'll need to add more ( typically about 3x as much , as the dry is usually more concentrated ) , and you 'll want to add it late in the cooking process , while dry herbs are usually added early . One exception to the rule is bay leaves -- you 'll still need to add them early , and you 'll want to reduce the number .
Coffee can be used for a variety of things BESIDES drinking straight . Off the top of my head , you can use less-than-perfect beans for : Chocolate mousse and cakes : brew into coffee , and add to the chocolate mix for a richer flavor Ice cream and sorbets . Coffee ice cream is awesome , and the cream will mask defects Chocolate-covered coffee beans . These make a great pick-me up snack for mornings , sweet and caffeinated . Coffee-flavored simple syrup , for baking and cocktails . Use equal weights coffee and simple syrup . Compost . Grounds compost very well , especially if used In a pinch , stale beans also make great projectiles . Got squirrels on your bird feeder ? Coffee bean slingshot !
The standard way to cook salt cod for dishes where you want to really remove the saltiness , such as brandade , is to soak it ( for hours ) in a couple of changes of water , and then simmer it in milk for half an hour to an hour . This might work with the mackerel . Not sure what you 'd use it for after that , though .
This seems nonsensical to try with your home stove . You are correct , the rate of gas output is directly controlled by the knobs . In a typical home stove , drilling holes will not increase the gas output . It would affect the gas to air ratio , but I doubt it would result in an increase of temperature , and more likely a decrease .
Lasagne typically need to cook in a hot oven for about 30 minutes . The main problem , as outlined by others in this thread , is the tendency of pasta sheets to dry up during this prolonged exposure to high temperatures . To avoid this , I usually precook the sheets in slightly-salted boiling water for one minute ( I just want to soften them , not cook them ) ; a few oil drops in the boiling water should help preventing the sheets to stick to each other . Subsequently I drain the sheets and lay them on a clean cotton cloth to let the cooking water be absorbed while I attend the preparation of the sauces . After lasagne are assembled in the pan , I cover it with aluminium foil and then put it in the oven to cook ; after 20 minutes I remove the foil and let lasagne cook " naked " for the remaining 10 minutes . <URL> are some pictures I took during the preparation of lasagne with crumbled sausages and mushrooms . With this procedure , lasagne sheets retain most of the moisture , thus not needing an excessive amount of sauce to keep them hydrated . I managed to obtain very good results even with Sainsbury 's Value Lasagne Sheets ( a brand of cheap " no precooking required " dry lasagne sheets commonly found in UK ) .
While you could probably do dried blueberries in a VERY low oven ( 150F ) , you 'll most likely need to prop the door open slightly to allow moisture to escape . You 'd be best to do them in an actual food dehydrator which will have a fan to expell the moisture being released from the food . Keep in mind however that if dried as they are , they will shrivel up into fairly hard little bits . If your goal is something similar to the dried blueberries that you can buy in retail stores , they will have to be treated in a sugar syrup to maintain the chewy texture and keep them from totally drying out . I 'm not sure if the commercial producers are first drying and then soaking in a sugar solution and perhaps drying again so that the sugar is drawn into the cells of the berry . Whatever the case ... commercial dried cranberries and blueberries maintain the chewy texture due to being treated with a sugar solution at some point . If you are looking for ways to handle a bumper crop or bulk buy on blueberries , I would recommend freezing them and stick to buying commercially processed dried berries for the best results , least effort , and greatest bang for your buck .
I ca n't speak to specific chemicals/aromatics for mushrooms , but this kind of thing does happen with all kinds of food . The initial cooking is releasing aromatics that were previously bound up in the food somehow , so you quickly get some stronger flavors . But aromatic molecules are volatile ( that 's why you smell them ! ) and also generally more prone to breaking down , so as you cook longer , they escape , or are broken down into something else without so much flavor , leaving you with something milder . Think about onion , for example . When you first start sauteeing it , there 's a lot of really strong onion smell coming off , maybe even enough to make you cry if you 're prone to it . If you eat it then , it 'll still have plenty of sharp onion flavor . But as you cook longer , those flavors mellow out ; going to the extreme , slowly caramelized onions have no sharpness and very little onion flavor . I think the initial strengthening of flavor may be stronger with mushrooms because of their structure . They seem dry at first , with all the water bound up inside . But as you start to cook them , their structure breaks down and they quickly release a lot of water , and with it , those flavors .
First off , how do you store your yeast ? Storing yeast in the fridge helps it to last longer ; I 've had some yeast in my fridge for a year that is still going strong . As your yeast begins to become ineffective , I would personally get new yeast . Once yeast looses its power , you 're simply not going to get the same effect out of it .
You can proof your yeast to see if its still alive : Heat approx . 1/2 cup ( 100ml ) of water to about 115 ° F ( 45 ° C ) . Add a tablespoon ( 10g ) or so of sugar , stir . Water should still be above 105 ° F ( 40 ° C ) . Add a teaspoon of yeast , stir . Within 5 minutes or so , the mixture should be thoroughly foamy . If its not thoroughly foamy , yeast is bad ( dead ) , dispose of it . ( Note : Metric conversions above are rounded , just like the imperial units . Do n't use these conversions for baking , but proofing yeast does n't need anything exact . )
I went ahead and tried it . I used hard-boiled yolks , as a soft and slimy one would be not really different from making the mayo in a waterbath . It turned out to be incredibly fickle . The first try , only yolk and oil , with immersion blender , split immediately and never recovered . The second try was supposed to incorporate the bad emulsion . I first made a paste from the yolk with a few milliliters of lemon juice and water , then started adding the bad emulsion , beating with a mixer this time . I got a thick suspension of yolk particles in oil , but it was n't emulsified . The third try worked at first . Again , I started with yolk and water and lemon juice , and then added the oil in really tiny amounts , half a teaspoonful at once . I used the mixer again . It emulsified , but was runny . I kept adding oil , and it was a nice emulsion , but very soft , runnier than soft peaks , like a batter . And then , one of the teaspoons of oil broke the emulsion completely :( I do n't know how the emulsion in the picture is made , maybe the sources I have heard of forget to mention that the yolk should n't be hard boiled ( mine was longer boiled than the one in the forum picture ) . If this is the case , then obviously there is nothing unusual happening here - the yolk retains some of its emulsifying power even after boiling ( I suppose it is the lecithine ) , but many of the substances which are actively helping the emulsion when heated around 70 ° C do n't work any more . So , working with cooked yolks is possible , but much harder than the normal heated raw yolks . Which makes me think that there is no reason to try further to use cooked yolks . I ca n't comment on taste , did n't try the emulsion before it split . After splitting , the yolk-containing oil is still usable as a bread dip , but does n't taste well enough to be made on purpose .
The cream whipper relies on gas expansion to work . When you make whipped cream by beating , you beat fine air bubbles into the cream . The cream traps air and becomes essentially a matrix that holds those bubbles -- a foam . Your gas-charged whipper does the same thing in a totally different way . When you charge the whipper with gas , there 's high gas pressure inside with the cream . The cream will actually absorb the nitrous oxide you put in . Because of the pressure , the gas absorbed can be thought of as really really really small bubbles within the cream . So you have a matrix of gas and cream , but because the bubbles are so small , it 's essentially just cream . Chilled liquids more easily absorb gases at high pressure , which is why it 's good to use cold cream and keep the whole unit in the fridge . A limited amount of agitation ( shaking ) exposes more cream to the gas , improving absorption . When you release the cream from the device , the absorbed gas expands rapidly . The bubbles get bigger , and your cream to bubble ratio becomes more like the foam that we know as whipped cream . It 's really exactly the same thing , only with nitrous oxide instead of plain ol' boring air inside the bubbles . Why nitrous oxide ? As I understand it , it 's because it 's the cheapest non-toxic , odorless and tasteless gas you can get . Carbon dioxide would almost be a good choice , but unfortunately it 's bitter . Not a good match for cream . Finally , why is shaking too much a bad thing ? That one I do n't know for sure , but I know what happens when you over-whip cream with the mixer . You make butter . Perhaps the gas or high pressure encourages this conversion , or maybe you 're just churning it that much when you over-shake . Either way , I 'm sure you 've essentially made butter when you shook it too much .
My italian grandma does it , but says to really make sure they dry out . You can dry them out and then freeze them , if it makes you feel any less hesitant .
It may already be an implicit assumption , but I think that time to cook is probably not as important as how to cook . While the power setting does affect the time to cook , the importance of time is to control how hot the parts of the food get . As with all cooking , there is a need to control temperature . Running the microwave at less than full power allows time for the heat to be conducted from the hot parts to the cool parts . It is similar to searing vs. sauteeing . I think that the accuracy of most microwave oven 's power settings are good enough ( my own testing shows about 10 % ) . I would be more concerned about how I wanted the item cooked . Some examples : When I want to reheat things like a thick soup , I run the microwave at full power for a short period of time , stir , and run the microwave again . Stirring the concoction distributes the heat faster than the conduction process . When I want to defrost frozen foods ( think meat ) , I use the lowest power setting . This prevents the edges of the food from getting cooked .
I posted this question in a hurry ( because as you can imagine ) , there was a lot of anxiety concerning whether it was safe to have dinner or not . It turns out that this ham is not safe ; I will quote the USDA : The plastic bone guard covering the exposed bone is used to keep the bone from breaking the outer wrap . If left on the meat during cooking , a 325 or 350 ° F oven temperature may not melt the plastic but still give off an abnormal chemical odor or taste . Cutting away the meat around the exposed area will not necessarily solve this potential food safety problem because the penetration of the chemical into the meat will be unknown . If meat is cooked in a closed container , the chemicals may penetrate the entire piece of meat . USDA advises not to eat the ham ; discard it . Source : <URL> Quite a disappointment unfortunately .
Soak them for a while in warm water , and you 'll be able to use them , yes . However It is equally important to know that you should reserve the liquid for its essential mushroomness , and yet also that said reserved liquid should be run through a coffee filter to remove grit .
end question
start question
Is there a significant difference between French press coffee and Moka pot coffee ?
Yes there is a significant difference between the two . I would put them at pretty close to opposite ends of the coffee spectrum . French Press : Generally made with a coarse grind , longer steeping time . Result is a weaker ( less concentrated ) more typical American style coffee . This will likely be consumed in the same way as a typical filtered , drip coffee would . Moka Pot : Made with a much finer grind . And while many will argue it 's not true espresso . It is much closer to being an espresso . I do n't really care what you call it , but it 'll be a much stronger more robust coffee . The same amount of coffee will be extracted to a smaller quantity of water . This would be consumed in the same way as an espresso would . You can water it down to make an Americano , etc. . .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
The <URL> page has an entry on this very topic . Basically , the color of the egg does not affect the egg 's flavor , nutritional value , etc. . It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens , brown eggs from brown hens . It 's also worth noting , as the ENC points out : Generally , brown hens are larger and require more feed and therefore their eggs may be slightly higher priced .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
Leavening is rising by any means , so baking soda and baking powder ( chemical leaveners ) both apply here , as does yeast ( fermentation ) . Chemical leaveners like baking soda and powder work by mixing an acid ( varies , depending on the recipe ) and base ( usually baking soda in some form ) to produce carbon dioxide gas . Fermentation is the process of yeast converting sugars to carbon dioxide and alcohol . In bread making , the carbon dioxide is the desired product . In beer or wine making , the exact opposite . In both cases ( beer/wine and bread ) , other byproducts produced by the yeast add flavour and are highly desirable . There are other types of fermentation by bacteria ( such as those used in yogurt-making , pickles , or sauerkraut ) that produce lactic acid ; but those are somewhat outside of the scope of this answer ( although lactic acid fermentation by bacteria is responsible for the taste of sourdough breads ) . To specifically answer your question - yes , yeast breads undergo fermentation ( which is also leavening ) . Quick breads like banana bread use chemical leaveners , which are not fermentation .
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
The Kansas City Strip and the New York Strip refer to the same cut of meat . Apparently restaurants in New York City in the 1930 's decided they could n't sell a fancy steak named after Kansas City ( where the stockyards and slaughterhouses were located ) . So , they just started calling it a New York Strip . If you want a steak renamed by a egotistical chef , order the New York Strip . If you want a steak named for the cut of beef originally selected by butchers working next to the stockyards , order the Kansas City Strip .
The previously accepted answer contains a good link , but not any information here on Seasoned Advice , so I thought I would write out a few things from my understanding after having developed an abiding interest in Cajun foods over the past decade . Basically , <URL> is a much broader term with a longer history . While it is perhaps inaccurate to say <URL> is a ' subset ' area and culinary style , it is more geographically - and flavor-specific than just saying Creole . The history of people and region identified as Creole ( on the American continents ) goes back a long ways , and Cajun is a more recent phenomenon . Creole can also refer to other peoples and regions other than just in the South/Central parts of North America , though such use in the United States is a distant memory . In the past century , the " Cajun " term has certainly attained an independent status as a self-identified people , region , and flavor -- the last no doubt owing to the flavor potency of their offerings . Which offerings , in my opinion , when consumed , are nearly always exquisitely enjoyable examples of perfection in the experience of food .
Apple cider has two meanings , but they both start with raw , pressed juice from crushed apples . Soft apple cider ( normally just called cider ) is simply the pressed juice , bottled . It is cloudy from suspended apple particles , and turns brown from the oxidation , much as apples themselves do when cut and exposed to air . Hard apple cider is an alcoholic beverage made by allowing soft apple cider to ferment . Apple juice is essentially the squeezed juice from the apples that has been highly filtered to remove the suspended particulates . It is usually pasteurized to have a longer shelf life . UK Usage : Per ElendilTheTall , in the UK , the alcoholic beverage is called cider , and the other products are called simple apple juice . See also : <URL>
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
I 've only heard of massaging kale . If you rub the greens together they get softer , darker and more tender and useable in a salad . Never done it with anything else . Wilted is steamed or blanched greens . Wilting definitely changes the texture and can make the greens more palatable and less bitter . I wo n't eat raw collards . I also always salt and squeeze my cooked spinach before using as it knocks out the bitterness .
<URL> is a style / kind of a sauce that originated in Napoli usually made with tomatoes , garlic , herbs , and onions . A spaghetti sauce only says where to sauce is used ( obviously on <URL> ) but does n't say anything about what the sauce is exactly like . There are <URL> which are basically spaghetti + sauce : <URL> -- which literally translates to " spaghetti mariner 's style " <URL> -- " spaghetti with garlic and oil " , originated in Napoli <URL> -- " spaghetti whore-style " <URL> -- " spaghetti coal worker 's style " and , uhmmm ... <URL> -- an Italian-American invention
There are several factors that increase price . Some are related to the objective quality of the wine , some indirectly linked , other are rather disconnected from quality ( but not necessarily irrelevant , as we 'll see ) . It 's also worth noting that being of high quality does n't necessarily mean being appealing to the average consumer . Apart from the stuff listed below , mass-market wines tend to be made in a non-challenging , easily accessible style . Lower tannin levels , less acidity and a generous amount of residual sugar ( say 10-30g / l ) makes for easy quaffing but little complexity or elegance . They can be very well-made , but the agriculture may not be very sustainable , and the fruit probably is n't of the highest quality . ( If you visit a winery at harvest when they bring in the bulk wine fruit , the meaning of " quality " becomes rather apparent . ) Wines targeted at connoisseurs , wine snobs and wine geeks ( such as yours truly ) tend have more structure ( tannins , acidity ) and are more often completely dry ( although there are of course high-quality off-dry , semi-sweet , and sweet wines ) . There 's a limit to how much a producer can spend to increase quality , a limit which varies with location ( because of salaries for workers etc ) but around $ 100 per bottle is probably in the right order of magnitude . This does not mean that all wines above this magical limit are equally good , though . A dirt-cheap wine will also have a cost associated to it which will be payed for by someone else , like under-payed harvest workers , the environment around the vineyard , etc. . Below are some factors that have a more or less direct link to wine quality and/or character : Yield per acre : Limiting the vineyard 's yield per acre ( which can be achieved by sparser planting , thinning / <URL> , old vines , etc ) increases the quality of the fruit , but you will produce less wine with more or less the same amount of work , which means you 'll have to adjust the price . Number of harvesting tries : At harvest , you can pick all the fruit of one vineyard at the same time and be done with it . Unfortunately , not all bunches ripen at exactly the same time , so to avoid over - or under-ripe grapes , you can make multiple tries ( French , pronounced " trees " ) over several days and pick each bunch at optimal ripeness . More tries inevitably means more work , and so , price increases . Selection : When the harvest is brought in , you can throw all the fruit into the press , or you can select the best grapes to make your wine ( and make brandy or a <URL> of the discarded grapes , or sell them on to a bulk wine producer ) . Being picky reduces the amount of wine produced , and so , prices increase . Drying : Some wines , like <URL> and <URL> , are made from partially dried grapes , and drying decreases the amount of wine you produce ( apart from being extra work ) which means - more expensive wine . Sparkling : Sparkling wines made with the <URL> - like <URL> and <URL> - need to be disgorged after bottle fermentation , which leads to a certain amount of waste ( a Cava producer I talked to said that around 10 % of the original wine is lost in disgorgement ) . Oak aging : Many wines are <URL> , which greatly affects the character of the wine compared to other types of containers , like concrete or stainless steel vats . ( More oak does n't mean better wine , of course . ) Oak barrels are horribly more expensive than the alternatives ( and European oak is more expensive than American , and they impart different character ) , and so , the more oak you use , the more expensive the wine gets . Aging in general : Most high-quality wine receive a bit of aging before consumption to let all components integrate ; some designations of origin even require aging prior to selling . <URL> Gran Reserva , for example , must be aged at least three years , with at least one of those years being on oak , while vintage <URL> is mandated to rest three years on the <URL> , etc. . Apart from time being money , you also need a suitable storage location ( cool and humid but not too cool and humid , secure but accessible to yourself , etc ) which is far from free . The price increases . Other factors are n't causally linked to higher quality , but tend to be connected : Reputation : If you 're an unproven winemaker you will be able to charge more if you 're operating in a district of high repute than if you 're working in an area where no-one has made quality wine before . Conversely , a well-known , high-quality producer expanding their operations to a somewhat less proven district will likely be able to charge more than their new neighbours . Brand : Marketing can take many forms , such as it advertising , tailoring wines to suit <URL> , and tends to push prices up . Wineries can even try <URL> . You can also be lucky and find some great , undiscovered producer ( do n't tell anyone ! except me , that is ) selling their wines at more-or-less cost price ( which probably still wo n't be dirt cheap , though ) . Land prices : Some spots are better for growing grapes . If you 're in
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
Some people say it 's just preparation and the base is the same ground corn / corn meal , some people say for grits you need ( more coarsely ) ground hominy ( which is corn that has been soaked in lye or lime ) . Polenta can be found loose and really solid : grits are generally loose . Corn type may also differ , as may the dish 's ' typical cultural trappings ' ( fat cheddar and bacon vs. leaner stuff )
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
As you know , focaccia and pizza are Italian dishes , and coca is Catalonian ( a region at Spain 's northeast ) . They all have toppings , and similar doughs ( with wheat flour and yeast ) . Classical focaccias : Are thicker than [ Italian ] pizzas ( about 3 ˜4 cm ( 1.2 ˜1 .6 in ) thick ) Have rectangular shape Have herbs , salt and olive oil as topping Are baked for about 20 minutes . Italian pizzas : Are thin ( less than 5 mm ( 0.2 in ) ) except their outer part Are round ( see notes below ) Have many different toppings , almost always including cheese , and most of the times tomato sauce or whole tomato Are baked for about 90 seconds ( this is very important for italian pizzas ) Cocas : Can be as thick as focaccias or as pizzas , usually depending on the topping . Are either rectangular like focaccias , or really long shaped like <URL> . Can be either sweet or salty . Sweet ones are usually thin as pizzas , always having sugar as topping and maybe pinnions , candied/confited fruit and/or anis ( it might remind you to a Spanish Roscón de Reyes ) . Salty are just a bit thicker than pizzas , and may have many ingrediets , but never cheese or any sauce : usually <URL> . Are baked for 30 to 45 minutes ( aprox ) ( which is , in my opinion , their biggest distinction with pizzas ) Notes : I know there are some pizzas in America that do not fit in the description I gave . But I understand your question is focusing on Italian pizzas . Also , sure there are pizza al taglio in italy , but despite having different shapes and cooking time than pizza pizza , they share the same Italian spirit , and can be noticed different different to cocas . You can make the three of them with natural yeasts , like sourdough/lievito naturale/massa mare , but certainly not with chemical rising agents .
There is a difference beyond just the price . All-Purpose flours are not the same : Southerners tend to make more quick breads , pies , cakes , etc. where tenderness is the primary quality factor . Southern brands of all-purpose flour such as White Lily , Martha White , Red Band , Adluh and others are typically milled from wheat that naturally has a lower gluten percentage . They also blend it to achieve an overall lower percentage . In addition , southern all-purpose flour is usually bleached , often with chlorine gas which weakens the gluten structure of the gluten in it and creates an acidic nature in the dough . Gluten does n't develop as easily in an acidic environment . On average , people living in the northeast/midwest tend to bake a lot more yeast-based products ( dinner rolls , cinnamon rolls , pumpernickel bread , rye , wheat , white , french bread , etc. ) which benefit from a higher gluten percentage . Northern/Midwest brands such as King Arthur , Hecker 's etc. tend to use wheat that has a higher gluten content for the milling of their flour and they typically leave it unbleached which allows the gluten to better develop during mixing/kneading . National brands such as Gold Medal and Pillsbury are being distributed across the country so they blend their flour to fall within the mid-range of gluten content . As for store brands , those that are national ( such as Kroger/safeway ) are probably being milled by the national flour mills and should probably perform about the same . If it 's a regional store brand ( such as Piggly Wiggly here in the south or Wegman 's in the Northeast ) I 'd be willing to bet that it probably falls within the scope of those regional types of milling practices . For a chart showing the range of gluten content for various types of flour from cake flour to bread flour ( including the all-purpose brands mentioned above ) see <URL> .
end question
start question
Should I bother trying to use a traditional wok on an electric stove ?
There are two problems here : Not enough heat reaching the wok/food due to limited contact surface . Part of the heating element not being in contact with a cooling metal ( pan/wok ) and the heat reflected back at it ( not escaping ) . This can result in a large temperature difference between the parts of the element that are in contact with the wok and parts that are not as well as over heating the element . You may still be able to use your wok on portable single burner gas stoves . Otherwise I 'd recommend heeding their advice and not using it on an electric stove . It wo n't make good food with little contact point anyway .
Unless there is something seriously wrong with your stove , you should not have any negative effects from using it to make choux pastry . Simply melt the butter into the water over medium then adjust the temperature to high . The purpose of boiling the water and then cooking the pastry over low heat is to gelatinize the starches in the flour . Your recipe likely adds emphasis to the point of bringing the water to a boil quickly so that you do not simmer the water away . Doing so can have negative effects on the finished product because it will throw off the water : flour ratio and you will not be able to completely gelatinize the starches . If your stove heats up so slowly that you think this might be an issue , you can simply place a lid over the pot as you bring it to a boil , making sure to add back to the pot any condensed vapor on the inside of the lid .
Is it safe ? That depends on a lot of factors . Generally , no . It is n't . A blog post from the Healthy Home Economist has the opinion of a firefighter : One gal mentioned that her husband was a firefighter and that leaving a stockpot simmering overnight or while they were out of the house was completely out of the question . <URL> <URL> Since you can not get a crock pot my only other suggestion is to simmer your bone broth in the oven . If your pot is oven safe and you trust your oven 's ability to keep a steady low temperature , then try it in there . If you plan on making bone broth more often , a crock pot is a great investment and if you check out your local Goodwill or Salvation Army store you might find an older but still perfectly usable model for an excellent price . It would also allow you to slow cook your broth overnight safely ( and uses less electricity to do it ) .
For this dish , you 'll probably want to use a low-end extra-light oil ( since it 's being heated quite a bit ) , and then drizzle in nicer extra virgin oil to finish the flavor after the pasta has been tossed into the cheese , oil , and spices . The rule of thumb is to have two kinds of olive oil : High-grade , richly flavored extra virgin olive oil ( for finishing ) Extra light , not extra-virgin olive oil for use as a cooking oil . You can use a cheaper oil for this -- many people choose to use a later pressing , crudo or " pure olive oil " ( in the US ) kind . The high-end oil is for adding it to sauces and drizzling on mostly-finished dishes to add that rich flavor . You 're looking for something with a lot of taste , and it 's a good idea to get small amounts of pricier oil . Getting small bottles means you 'll be using fresher , more flavorful oil because it has n't been open for long . Plus , you wo n't need much to finish dishes . Note that for this use , you want to add the oil near the end of cooking , as heat will alter and weaken the flavor . The low-end light olive oil should be of neutral or light flavor , and will be more tolerant of heating than extra-virgin . Because it has a much higher smoke point than extra-virgin grade oil , use this in recipes calling for heating up olive oil . If necessary for flavor , add some of the good stuff near the end of cooking .
Generally that sort of treatment is to get rid of any moisture the stone may have taken on during storage/handling -- if it were n't kept dry , there could be moisture deep in the stone that would not be an issue in normal home use . I would expect the instructions were also that you should put the stone in the cold oven then turn it on -- that would be the safest way to do the whole process , avoiding thermal shock , etc. . There might be some proprietary reason to do this also , but my vote goes to driving out deeply absorbed moisture .
We have a convection oven and almost always use it . I ca n't remember the last time we did n't use convection . Our model automatically decreases the temperature , so if you set it for 300 , then it will heat to 275 . Not sure if that is a magic 25 degree number , but it seems to work . Almost all recipes cook time wise as they would with a non-convection oven . Our also has a single and multi-rack mode , and it circulates the air differently in that case . We have NEVER had any problems with the food drying out more with the air circulation as they say that is a common negative . I am sure the effectiveness varies oven to oven , but in our case , we always use it ( except for broiling of course ) .
Yes . It 's much more fun to cook with gas , and the way I see it , any incentive I can provide for myself to cook good food at home is a major net positive in quality of life . The setup I have is three gas burners and one electric stove top element , and an electric oven . The electric stove top really comes in handy when reducing stocks or making long-cooking soups and stews , and it can significantly reduce the amount of gas you use in cooking . For oven I would definitely go electric . See the <URL> question . I have one 5 kg liquid gas bottle stashed under the sink , and it lasts 3-4 months of heavy daily cooking for two , maybe 6 months in the summer when I eat more salads etc. . In addition I have another 2kg bottle for backup if I run out of gas in the middle of cooking , and for the day or so it takes me to haul another bottle from the store . Having a smaller backup bottle does n't waste too much space . I 've been considering upgrading to a 11kg composite bottle , which I expect to last 10 months to a year , and it 's way more economical . So far though the convenience of having a smaller bottle I can carry to the store for changing without a sweat has been great .
Stock is made from bones only and broth is the liquid that meat has been simmered in . A well made stock should be clear without particles or cloudiness . Broth will usually be somewhat cloudy due to containing more dissolved proteins . Bones for lamb stock ( and any brown stock - veal can be made white or brown but lamb is usually brown ) are typically first roasted . The roasting will melt fat that may still be intact . After roasting bones for stocks such as lamb , veal , and duck you would then remove the bones from the roasting pan and roast the vegetables . You can use the residual fat for coating the vegetables prior to roasting . ( Just put vegetables in roasting pan and toss to coat with the fat ) . Fat from the bones will congeal on the top once the stock is chilled and you can then easily remove it . I would n't add or purposely leave chunks of fat attached to the bone as you just have to remove it later but what is there is n't a problem .
You can use a solution of vinegar and water to descale your kettle ( unless , as hobodave mentioned , the manufacturer advises against using vinegar ) . Fill your kettle with water until it 's half full ; add about 1/2 cup of vinegar to the water , and then allow it to boil for about 10 minutes . Allow the water to cool and unplug your kettle . Gently scrub away the scale with a non-metallic pad ( do n't scrub the heating element if it 's exposed ; wipe that with a sponge ) . Rinse your kettle several times after removing the scale , and then boil one or two fillings of water in it to ensure that you remove all traces of the vinegar .
You are relying on very different forms of heat . Conduction vs Convection vs Radiation <URL> <URL> <URL> What happens when you heat something ? A number of things . Proteins Coagulate Starches Gelatinize Sugars Caramelize Water Evaporates Fats Melt Depending on how you cook it , you 're going to get different forms of each of those at different rates . On a stove , you can avoid too much moisture and fat from leaving your food by cooking it extremely quickly ( in a stir-fry ) . . You ca n't sear something in an oven and you ca n't roast something on the stove . The two are simply not the same , because fundamentally the two are not the same , you are not going to get the same results . It 's really as simple as that . You ca n't take two entirely methods and argue that you get the same results .
You should get a carbon steel wok with two short handles ( not one long handle ) . You want the steel to build up a patina of oxidized oils , which rules out stainless steel and aluminum and non-stick . You could conceivably get a cast-iron wok , but those are really heavy . You want the two small handles so you can pick up the wok , but you do n't want long handles that will dump hot oil or food everywhere if you bump them . Unlike a saute pan , you do n't toss the pan , you toss the food . ( Tossing the pan pulls it away from the flame , which is bad when stir-frying ! ) Your best bet is to go to an Asian grocery . You 'll be assured of getting a product at a good price . Should n't cost more than $ 25 , I do n't think . Oh , one other question is what sort of stove you have . If you have an electric stove , ( a ) I 'm sorry , and ( b ) you have to get a flat-bottomed wok . If you have a gas stove , you can either get a flat-bottomed wok or a round-bottomed wok , but the latter only if you get a wok ring that holds the pan just above the flame . You want as much heat going into that pan as you possibly can manage !
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
The big key is just to soak the plank before using it , that way it wo n't burn while it 's in the oven . The amount of time needed to soak seems to differ among experts , but soaking for an hour should be long enough to cook the salmon without the wood burning .
Yes it is completely safe . It is even <URL> . • To get rid of stuck-on food or discoloration , and stains from using too high of a heat , we recommend cleaning your All-Clad with a product called Bar Keeper 's Friend . Bar Keeper 's Friend even has a cookware specific cleanser , <URL> . I 'm not sure of the difference between this and their regular cleanser , since they are n't required to list ingredients , but it is marketed specifically for cookware , and priced equivalently . Other manufacturers recommend this product as well , as noted on the <URL> page . You should also check out <URL> on how to remove brown stains . The accepted answer there is BKF . If you have something particularly terrible that BKF ca n't handle , you can always use <URL> , though I daresay your wife will say no to this . :-)
There is no difference in food taste when cooking using gas or electric . Gas burns pretty cleanly so is not going to leave a flavor residue you could detect . Cooking over flame as in a barbecue or a pot over a campfire does change the flavor because of the smoke , that 's the only case I can think of where the heat source can change the flavor of the food .
A regular electric oven uses a large coiled resistor as a heating element . A large electric current is passed through this element which generates heat , similar to the tungsten filament of an incandescent light bulb . An induction stove does n't actually generate heat itself , but rather induces it the pot or pan . It does this using a rapidly oscillating magnetic field . This field induces an electric current in a ferromagnetic pan which generates heat , thus heating the food . Induction stoves are faster , safer , and more energy efficient than traditional electric stoves . It requires significantly less electricity to create the magnetic field than it does to drive enough current through a resistor to make it heat up . They are safer because they do n't actually generate heat themselves . After taking a pot off the " burner " ( glass surface ) it quickly begins to cool . With regards to differences in the cooking process , there 's not much . You just need to be aware that it heats up much more quickly and cools down much more quickly than a traditional electric stove . It does affect your choice of pans however . All aluminum pans will not work , nor will some lower quality stainless steel ones . If a magnet sticks to the pan then it will work just fine . The pan must also have a flat bottom to make full contact with the surface .
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
Lemon juice and lemon zest have a different taste . Lemon juice has obviously more water , is tart ( adds fruitiness and freshness to the dish ) and the aroma is not as intense as in the zest . If you bake a cake or cookies it 's often more desirable to use lemon zest because it does n't mess up the water-solids-ratio and what you often want is a rather sweet cake/cookie than a tart one . In contrast often the cookie glaze should be somewhat tart - you can use both zest and juice . I have the impression that the zest has a bitter component . So you have to decide if you want to have a tart component in your dish and whether the dish tolerates additional liquid . Acid is not only important in taste but also in the further " food chemistry " . As Jay pointed out , acid can make milk curdle . Also , cooking with acid in aluminium <URL> ( and probably health-wise , too , but that 's another topic ) . Someone else asked a question in the opposite direction : <URL>
I strongly advise against doing it . I tried stovetop seasoning at home and got terrible results . A stove gives you hot spots - on gas , this will be the ring where the flame touches the metal . The temperature of the metal in this hot spot is way too high , and the oil burns instead of polymerizing . You get some oil-charcoal in this place , which does n't have non-stick properties , and flakes off after a few uses . Outside of the hot spots , the temperature is not high enough . The oil does n't polymerize thoroughly , and forms a sticky paste instead of a smooth one . Your food will stick to these parts of the pan even worse than to the charcoaled parts . Conclusion : use an oven . If your oven is too small for a pan ( I only have a toaster oven , 30x30 cm , and my pan + handle is way too long even for the diagonal ) , leave the door cracked and seal the crack with alu foil . This is not very energy efficient , but you only do it once per pan . It worked for me , and I got a real , non-stick seasoning after multiple failures on stovetop .
No . The fat content of goose , like most waterfowl , is very high . This makes it unsuitable for brining . Brining is intended to bring moisture to meats that tend to dry out , such as chicken and turkey . See <URL> to " <URL> " for more details .
end question
start question
Best way to chop an onion ?
I use two different knives when I dice an onion . First , cut the onion in half , through the root end ( so that each half has a bit of the root on it to hold it together ) . Next , take a paring knife ( the skinny blade is why I use this knife here ) and make vertical cuts that go almost all the way to the root . Next , use the paring knife to make horizontal cuts while using one hand to hold the onion in place . Last , use a chef 's knife to make downward cuts to finish the dice . If you are trying to julienne cut the onion , cut off both the top and root part of the onion and peel it . Then chop the onion in half vertically and cut thin slices of onion on an angle from the outside toward the middle ( about a 10 degree angle should be fine ) . I do all of this with a chef 's knife .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
If you are only using it three times a month then this 25lbs bag may last a very long time indeed . The problem is that even white rice can eventually develop off flavors when exposed to light and air . Additionally - even if pests do n't have access to the rice , it is not unlikely that the rice has some eggs on it that can hatch and spoil the whole bag . The solutions to these problems all make it difficult to use the rice in the short term . For long-term food storage dry foods are typically sealed in either # 10 cans or mylar bags . An oxygen absorbing packet is also included . This will prevent spoilage and pest growth . Mylar bags are less expensive and you can open one bag at a time for short term use . Alternatively - if you can freeze the rice to ensure there are no pests then the rice can be stored , sealed , in a cool , dry place as others have described . Given how cheap rice is - it might be acceptable to you to just take your chances and replace it if it spoils after some months .
Yes , onions contain sugar , just like most fruit and vegetables . It is not simply a common phrase , it is true caramelization . They have 4.24 g of sugar per 100 g in total ( wet weight ) . For dry weight 40 % is sugar . See <URL> for more details .
If you 're using cheap knives ( which you suggest to the answer you linked to , and I admit , I have quite a few ) , feel free to sharpen them yourself ... I have both a stick-style diamond dust sharpener , and a set of whet stones . But I do n't sharpen my good kitchen knives myself , and I tend to go a few years between sharpenings ( but I also have two chef knives and a santuko , which get the majority of the use , but it 's spread across three of 'em , so they likely do n't get as much wear if I only had one ) ... but I agree with @hobodave -- I hone 'em , but I 'm not going to sharpen them myself .
Adding salt and lemon should do it , or at least help a lot . What you want to do is to chop them up and rub in a little salt and a splash of lemon juice ( vinegar should work too ) . Obviously you do n't want to add so much of either that you wo n't want to eat the onion . Leave to sit in the fridge overnight and enjoy .
In professional smoothie/frozen youghurt/fruit shake shops , you 'll usually see the fruit frozen in small pieces for easy portioning . So raspberrys and blueberrys are fine , but you 'd wnat to quarter strawberrys and cube mangoes or apples or kiwis or whatever before freezing them . The freezing process itself is important to the strucutral integrity of the fruit , and will affect its texture . However , if you only want them for smoothies/blended drinks , that is n't very important . As a usage note , remember that a home freezer compartment is usually at -4 degrees Celsius , whereas a chest freezer ( deep freeze ) would more commonly be at -18 degrees . A good blender wo n't mind either way , but your lips might find it a bit cold . Also , you might find you can buy the fruit pre-frozen from the same vendors the shops get them , in which case it will be prepared for you , and all you need is to defrost and blend . Aside from saving you the work of peeling and chopping , their freezing process may be better , and it 'll probably end up being cheaper too .
The tearing of the eyes is a result of enzymes that form a sulpherous gas when the onion is cut ( concentrated inside the inner core or bulb of the onion ) being released into the surrounding air . You have a few options to avoid this - one would be to not cut through the center of the onion but to extract the " core " . This is kind of a pain and means you are discarding a decent chunk of onion , so I do n't like it too much . Another option is to use a fan to blow the gases away from you . A small fan next to you blowing horizontally should do the trick . You could also wear goggles , although you 'd have to leave them on for a while until the gas dissipates from the area . Another technique is to cut a lemon in half and rub the fresh lemon against both sides of the blade . You 'll have to keep " refreshing " the juice coat and your onions will have some lemon juice on them , so this is somewhat limited by that factor .
First , there is no difference between seasoning and reseasoning , unless you need to do some extra work to remove rust ( see instructions below ) . In fact , for new cast iron , scouring is also usually a good idea since you need to get off whatever wax or protective oil the manufacturer or seller may have put onto the cookware . ( They do n't use cooking oil for that sort of thing , believe me . ) If you need to remove rust : use a mixture of salt and oil and scrub that hard into the rust , then rinse thoroughly in hot water . Use steel wool if necessary . Next , scour the pan completely under hot water . Do this for several minutes or until the water runs clean . I 've heard varying things about whether soap or an SOS pad is OK at this step . My personal opinion is that it 's OK , but you must wash the soap completely off before continuing with the seasoning so that your seasoning does n't taste like soap ! Coat the cookware with grease or oil . ( I do this with the whole pan , not just the cooking surface , to reduce the possibility of external rust . ) Crisco , vegetable oil , and lard all work well . Do n't pick something with a low smoking point , or too strong a flavor . Make sure it 's a light coating ... you should n't have pools of oil anywhere on your cookware . Bake your skillet in a 250-350 ° F oven for an hour . If you used liquid oil , you may want to put the cookware in upside down so excess oil drips off . But it 's good to put a cookie sheet or something underneath the cookware to catch the drips if you do ! Let the cookware cool , and wipe off any excess oil . For best results , do this two or three times , though a skillet can be satisfactory after a single treatment . To keep the seasoning happy : Do n't let the cast iron sit too long without using it ( you may notice a rancid smell or flavor if the seasoning turns bad ; I 'm not sure at what point this happens , but it 's happened to me before ) . Do n't cook anything acidic ( e.g. tomatoes ) during the first or second use of your pan . Do n't use dishwashing liquid or soap on the pan ( hot water and scrubbing only ) . After cleaning the pan after each use , wipe it lightly with another bit of oil , using simple vegetable oil . Another trick sometimes used to season Chinese woks : rub Chinese chives over the surface of the cookware when the oil is being heated ( this works best on a stovetop , not in the oven ) . The juice of the chive has sulfur compounds that help remove remaining flavor from the previous coating of the cookware . Be aware that this technique really kicks up a lot of steam and smoke . I 've never tried it on cast iron skillets , but I 'd be curious if anyone out there has .
Since dietary fiber is made mostly of cellulose that is n't broken down during cooking I do n't think it should be an issue . The browning that occurs is from the proteins and sugars already in the onion . <URL>
Seasoning does not preserve food . Some foodstuffs normally used for seasoning , like salt and vinegar , can help to preserve food , but the concentration you need will make your ricotta unpalatable . Salting can preserve food , when combined with dehydration . Bacteria need a humid environment to live in . Salt is hygroscopic , it both helps dry out the food you are preserving ( usually meat ) and directly dehydrates any bacteria which come in contact with it , killing them . Even then , you want to use charcuterie salt ( a mix of NaCl and NaNO2 ) to prevent botulism , as pure table salt ( NaCl ) does n't kill Clostridum Botulinum . Trying to get ricotta preserved that way is counterproductive . Not only will it be way too salty to taste well . You will also have to dry it out to the point where neither mould nor bacteria can grow on it . Hard cheeses are durable exactly for these reasons , but dried-out ricotta is not tasty . In fact , I am not sure that " the yellow stuff " you see is " toxic " , it could just be dried-out . Still , I would n't be willing to risk eating it , even if the taste was acceptable . You could try preserving your ricotta by adding acid . To have it hold a long time in the fridge , it has to be as acidic as a typical pickle recipe . I only mention this because you say that you spice it heavily . But frankly , I ca n't imagine anybody wanting to eat ricotta that sour . The option I would choose is freezing . You already mention " the freezer " , but if you are really freezing it , then it sounds like you are thawing and refreezing the whole container . Alternatively , maybe it was a slip of the keyboard and you meant to say that you are holding it in the back of the fridge . Whatever you meant , I would suggest freezing it in portions , for example using silicone muffin moulds . Once you have frozen your ricotta ( you can add spices it first , if you prefer ) , remove it from the moulds and place it in a freezing bag . Only thaw the amount you will need for a single meal . This should work well enough , in the worst case you 'll have a layer of freezer burn to remove .
Mint likes oil . And it likes water . And it likes alcohol . Like most complex flavors , mint is complicated . The greener , vegetal notes are going to be from compounds like chlorophyll , and will be alcohol and very weakly water soluble . The astringent , sharper notes are going to from compounds like menthol , which are oil soluble . In general , the faster flavors , the ones that hit fast and fade faster , are water soluble , while the ones that linger are oil soluble . Mint flavor is sold both as an extract , in a base of water or alcohol , and as an essential oil , in a base of ... oil . As for cooking , I would skip the tomatoes entirely , and do a mint and parsley pesto with walnuts and olive oil . Why ? I like mint .
The ideal tool depends on what you 're trying to do with it . If you want something nice and fine , which will release as much flavor as possible , avoid getting any of the pith , and not add distracting texture to a dish , use a fine rasp grater ( sometimes known by the brand name microplane ) : ( There are also coarse rasp graters . That wo n't be any better than a standard grater . You want one that looks like the picture . ) If you want something small but visible , use a citrus zester : You can get skinny little strips that tend to curl with the small holes at the end , and bigger curls like you 've seen on the rims of cocktails with the wider hole in the middle . ( Edit : added the second picture . That looks like it was fun . ) Finally , if you want big pieces to put in something to cook in something , then maybe fish out later , you can use a normal vegetable peeler :
Well , I see no reason this should n't work . Although I would change the process order slightly . If you think about it you 're basically suggesting making smoked bacon and then confiting it . Brine the meat , adding moisture to the meat . ( Make bacon ) Smoke the Bacon ( Smoked Bacon ) Confit it ... Smoking wise I would advise a cold smoke as it will help stop the meat drying out before the confiting . When doing the confit part I would highly recommend a really low fat/oil temperature , around 110c again to help stop the meat drying out and getting tough . Low and slow will save your meat . When I say make bacon I do n't mean brine it for 2 days but if you brine it for 4-8 hours you 'll help start the osmosis without actually creating full on salted bacon . It might taste great , but I see no reason why it would n't taste good . Maybe not the " Ultimate Pork Chop " ...
No , it 's not necessary . You can do it , and if you 'd soak them for about an hour , the cooking time will diminish strongly ( half ) . I 'm not sure if this would affect the chalky taste . Which kind of lentils do you use ?
If you soak your beans in brine ( 3tbsp table salt per gallon of water , or 1.5 % salt by weight ) it 'll help soften the skins by replacing calcium and magnesium ions in the skin . After soaking for 8 -- 24 hours , drain and rinse . ( Source : <URL> , login required ) . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking also mentions this ( p. 488 -- 489 ) and suggests 1 % salt by weight . McGee also mentions that 0.5 % baking soda will further reduce cooking times ( but may lead to unpleasant taste &amp; mouth feel ) . Alternatively , <URL> that dried kombu can be used to similar effect , without needing the soak . Even after brining , taste them when nearly done cooking : you may need to add some salt -- it does n't always penetrate that far into the beans . At least , that 's been my experience . Quick summary : Create 1 -- 1.5 % salt ( by weight ) brine , approx 3tbsp table salt per gallon of water . Sort ( remove rocks , deformed and damaged beans , etc. ) and rinse dried beans . Drain rinse water . Soak rinsed beans in brine for 8 -- 24 hours . Beans will noticeably swell . Drain brine , rinse beans again . Cook beans normally . Towards the end of cooking , season to taste . You want to season towards the end of the cooking because it results in creamier texture and also eating some beans which have n't been heated to boiling for 10 minutes is ill-advised due to phytohaemagglutinin .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
Use a carbon-steel wok ! The shape works very well to keep the unpopped kernels in the hot oil , while the popped kernels end up on the cooler sides . I usually use about 2 T of oil and 1/3 c of popcorn to make enough for two people . If you want to keep with the Chinese theme , Szechuan peppercorn-salt goes extremely well on popcorn ! To make it , grind Szechuan peppercorns and kosher salt in a spice grinder .
See : <URL> The principles remain the same for grilling or barbecuing : you want to cook the squid briefly so it does n't toughen up , or slowly for a long time , so that the collagen dissolves to gelatin , making the squid tender again . In between is the rubbery zone . The main issue is that many squid are not really large enough to place directly on a grill grate without danger of falling through , so you may wish to use a fish or vegetable grilling grate . You can then grill them briefly , over high heat . It is probably possible to use low-and-slow smoking techniques ( true barbecuing ) , but I did n't find any really credible sources or recipes , and I have never tried this myself . You could also grill the squid to get some smokey flavor , then finish by braising them ( for example , in a disposable pie tin on the cool side of your grill , with flavorful liquid ) for a long time . Googling <URL> will give you many recipes to try , with a variety of marinades and treatments .
Cut the sprout end off . Place the cut end on the board , slice the onion in half vertically ( i.e. place your knife on the root and cut down ) If the outer skin layer is nice and thick , pull it off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the outer skin is papery , pull it and one layer of onion flesh off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the first layer of onion flesh is slightly dimpled or has a kind of matte finish , it 's probably turning ' skinny ' . Strip that off too .
end question
start question
Trick to getting a sauce to stick to chicken ?
There are essentially two methods to get what you want , and you can use them separately or together : Saturated Fat Butter and other saturated fats ( i.e. bacon fat or even chicken fat ) will do wonders to " bind " sauces to chicken . Among other reasons , it 's partly because saturated fat is solid at room temperature and still fairly viscous at moderately higher temperatures . In fact , traditional " wing sauce " is invariably some combination of hot sauce and butter . The butter helps cut the spiciness and also helps keep the sauce attached to the meat . Dry Heat I use this technique for ribs far more often than chicken , but the idea here is to make the sauce into a glaze by reducing it . Set your oven to broil and apply a thin coat of sauce to the meat ; make sure you cover it completely but do n't glob it on . Now put the meat on a rack beneath the broiler and wait until you see the sauce starting to bubble ( should be no more than 1-2 minutes if you 've applied enough sauce and your oven is hot enough ) . Then take it out of the oven . Repeat several times until you 've got a thick , sticky coat of sauce ( usually around 5 times for me ) . Note that if the sauce is very thick ( i.e. a store-bought BBQ sauce ) then you 'll actually want to water it down a bit first . For chicken I honestly prefer to just throw in some butter , but you can use either technique as long as the meat is n't too lean .
Once it 's cooled down some , I switch to using my hands ... expecially as it helps to find any bones , globs of fat , etc. . I find it goes much faster , particularly if you 're dealing with anything other than boneless breast meat . ... but it shreds easiest while it 's still warm , so if I 'm doing a fair bit , I 'll break a bit apart using forks , let that cool , break some more apart with a fork , then shread the first bit before it cools too much , repeat . ( so basically , I have one set broken down somewhat to cool faster while I 'm shreding an already-cooled off bit ) . update as justkt mentioned , the cooking method matters -- roasting and other high heat methods are going to cook the outside faster than the inside . I typically poach my chicken if I 'm going to be shreding it -- bring water to a boil , add chicken , bring back to a boil , turn to low , then leave for an hour or two ... the low temp gets it all nice and tender , while the boiling kills surface bacteria .
The usual way is to use a thickener . Some of them require warming , but others do not . Guar or xanthan gum will work if used in the cold sauce . It is the easiest way . If you do n't have them , yuo can use gelatine , but you 'll have to dissolve it in warm liquid first and then add to the cold sauce , then wait to thicken . None of these will change the taste . If you are from the " no additives " fraction , you can just use a thicker dairy product . I do n't think the heavy whipping cream would be a particularly good fit to yogurt . The best choice would be a fermented product thicker than yogurt , e.g. sour cream or creme fraiche . But you can also use a cheese , although this will change the taste ( without making it bad or too different from the original ) . Good choices would be cream cheese , ricotta , quark , tvorog or mascarpone .
One piece at a time ? Into the bag , shake to coat , out of the bag , shake to remove excess flour , put aside for subsequent egg-washing and breading once all pieces are done . Also helps to have one hand only touching dry ingredients , the other only wet .
I did this as an experiment last month , because I wanted a marble cake . The part that I wanted chocolate , I just swapped out a half-cup of the flour for cocoa . I should note , however , that while it tasted great , it made a denser , slightly drier cake than did the white cake batter . Next time , I plan to add a couple of teaspoons of grapeseed oil and some extra baking powder to counteract that problem .
Chicken is difficult to get right in a smoker . Cooking at really low temperatures can result in a rubbery skin . Chicken is one meat where I 've never seen the need to go low/slow . Brine the bird if you 're worried about drying it out or if you want to get some extra flavor into the meat , but it 's not necessary . In any event , make sure you get the skin dry before cooking . Overnight in the fridge should do the trick . I like to rub the skin with vegetable oil and BBQ rub ( or sometimes just salt &amp; pepper ) and cook it at around 300-350f on the smoker . Not only does it cook faster , it also does n't take on an overwhelming amount of smoke .
If corn syrup works , it seems to me that simple syrup ( i.e. a saturated solution of sugar and water ) ought to work , too .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
Your question seems to have two parts : With what do I replace chicken stock to make the dish vegetarian and How can I add some zing to the dish for added interest ? To answer 1 , I 'd make a hearty vegetable stock from scratch . Recipies abound . Alternatively you could rely on a bought stock but I find that these can be overpowering and of course you have less control over the flavour . To answer 2 , consider adding a dollop of pistou to each bowl of soup when serving . Freshly made pistou is easy and adds interest and flavour . See , e.g. <URL> .
Way too many variables . If you knew how warm the chicken was before cooking , how hot the cooking area is ( and whether that will change during the cooking time ) , how thick the chicken is , whether you 're cooking white or dark meat , and more , you might be able to make a good guess . I would not recommend cooking just thawed , thick pieces of chicken on an uncovered grill . Too easy to make it hard on the outside and dry on the inside . I would n't estimate lower than 20 minutes , but it will almost certainly be longer . Edit : Here 's a " Good Eats " video about doing chicken on a grill . <URL> It 's better to go ahead and cut the chicken up the rest of the way for grilling so that each type and size of meat can be on it 's own cooking schedule .
Half fill it with water , then put in on the stove top over a medium heat . Work the burnt-on bits with a wooden spoon or spatula as the water starts to boil . You should be able to soften it up and be able to get it off then .
Cook the pancetta on a large pan , so that it fries in its own fat . It must turn red , but do n't cook it too much as you are going to cook it a bit more later on . Open two eggs . If you like the color of the carbonara intense , throw one white away , and keep one white and two yolks . Put them in a bowl , then add grated parmigiano and mix with a fork . The amount of parmesan should be at least the same volume of the eggs , maybe even more ( twice does not hurt ) . This will give you a rather firm but still flowing compound . Firm is better than too liquid . Cook the pasta . Spaghetti is the norm for carbonara , but also penne is a good choice . Get them " al dente " or some second later , as you prefer . Drain the pasta and put it in the pan you used to cook the pancetta ( where the pancetta still is ) . Pour the egg/cheese mix on top of the pasta and put the pan on gentle heat , while you continue moving and mixing . Detach any layer of cooked egg from the bottom of the pan while you mix . The perfect carbonara must not be liquid , and it must not be clumpy solid , so keep mixing or you will get a pasta omelette . Once you are done , turn off the heat , and take spaghetti up with a large fork , so to disentangle them while you transfer them on the dishes . move them in the dish with a small oscillating movement to disentangle a bit more . Continue like this for all the dishes you have to serve . At the end you will have the pancetta remaining in the pan , and you put it on top of each dish . Add more grated parmigiano and some ground black pepper and eat as soon and hot as possible ! Additional notes : try to stay a bit scarce on salt in the pasta water , and do not add salt to the egg . The fact is that the pancetta is already pretty salted , and you risk to obtain a very salted final result . Carbonara should be salty , but not too salty . I heard about modification with butter and cream , but I have never seen them used , at least in my family and circle of friends .
Also see @Pulse 's answer . Check out the China town for ' vegetarian food ' , they have all sort of fake meat from chicken to beef , from abalone to fish , all made of modified tofu fibres .
Unless there was sugar in your cream , there 's nothing particularly sweet about this combination . Did you salt the pasta water to roughly seawater saltiness ? If not , did you adjust salt before serving ? If your pasta water was under-salted , that would explain the sweetness , since the only significant source of salt otherwise was the parmesan . Heavy cream is equivalent to 36-40 % whipping cream . In the event that your cream was pre-sweetened , there 's not much you could do except add salt and hope the sugar does n't overwhelm . It 's a fairly common technique to add sugar to a salty dish to make it taste richer , or salt to a sweet dish for a similar purpose . But it would n't work very well if the cream was very sweet . Since I 've never seen sweetened whipped cream except in aerosol dispensers , I ca n't say for sure .
There are noted resources for flavor pairing , many of which you can find on this site . Check out <URL> . You 'll find : <URL> <URL> , including suggestions for <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( here 's a start for your <URL> ) <URL> <URL> For your specific question of what goes well with citrus rind , you already know chocolate is a good match and that you are putting the sauce on brownies . Nuts in your brownies will be a good match too , especially pecans . Caraway , thyme , cardamom , or black pepper might add an unexpected note with orange . Rosemary is a very nice match for lemon . I recently made cookies using orange zest and black pepper that came out quite well . If you want the citrus flavor to dominate I would leave out the berries . Otherwise I 'd definitely use the raspberries , which go well with citrus . The bluberries would be fine , but I would n't consider them your best choice .
Fresh herbs should , generally , be added closer to the end of a recipe . Dried herbs should be added fairly early on during the cooking process so that they have time to " develop " and more fully release their flavors . Fresh herbs and spices , however , will generally have more subtle flavors , and they are usually best used for seasoning at the very end of the recipe , rather than actual cooking . You can check out more details about how to use different kinds of spices in <URL> . For your specific case , I would say to definitely add the basil in at the end -- maybe five or ten minutes before the sauce is finished , as you said . It may even be a good idea to remove the pot from your heat source after you have added the basil so that the herbs can infuse their flavor without actually cooking into the sauce . You have to be careful not to cook too much of the flavor out with fresh herbs . If they simmer too long with the rest of the dish the subtle flavors can be easily overpowered by other ingredients .
First , the alcohol does n't burn off . We had a table about the percentage of alcohol left after a period of cooking , and especially in something cooked as short as a pasta sauce , there is a substantial amount left . For the longer discussion , see <URL> . Second , alcohol is a great solvent . It can leach aromatics from spices and herbs which would n't come out with water only . There is a good reason why extracts and essences are made with alcohol . While a really good extract needs a long time , even the short cooking time will be enough for alcohol to make a difference . Third , it can stabilize your sauce . Cream is an emulsion of fat in water , and not terribly stable , especially if some acid is present . Alcohol dissolves both fat and water , so it will stop the cream from eventual separating . Fourth , maybe you happened to find a not so great recipe . Vodka will help with the first three points , but it is seldom a good choice for cooking , because there is almost always another alcohol which will accomplish the same and introduce a good flavor which harmonizes with the remaining ingredients . For pasta sauces this tends to be a good brandy , but it depends on what else you have in the sauce . And because even vodka will leave a taste of alcohol in the end , it is hard to argue that it can be used where the taste should be kept unchanged .
The ingredients they post are : 1 cup solid vegetable shortening 1 teaspoon Wilton Flavor ( vanilla , almond or butter ) 7-8 teaspoons milk or water 1 lb . confectioners ' sugar 1 tablespoon Meringue Powder pinch of salt ( optional ) I would make the following suggestions based on these ingredients : It 's not really butter cream icing if you 're using vegetable shortening . You 'll get far superior flavour by using butter . Pure butter may have trouble holding its shape , but you should have no trouble at all switching to a half-and-half mixture . This ratio wo n't change the colour much either . I 've never personally cared for the Wilton flavourings and suspect that is a major part of the problem here . If you 're using the vanilla , it 's not real vanilla , it 's imitation vanilla extract ; pure vanilla extract is dark brown and would colour the icing . Their almond flavour also seems to taste nothing like normal almond extract , and the butter flavour is thoroughly pointless ( just use butter ! ) . You can use real vanilla extract , but it will definitely darken the icing . You can try to compensate with an <URL> , but those things are intended for slightly-off-white icings and probably wo n't get you all the way to white . Alternatively , you can use pure almond extract instead of the imitation ; it is actually clear to begin with . Or , better yet , you can just change your brand . <URL> makes a bunch of concentrated flavouring oils that might taste less fake . If you go to any baking supply store you 'll probably see other brands as well . Try a few until you find one that you like . You do n't say whether you 're using milk or water , but use whole milk or even cream if you can ; do n't miss an opportunity to lay on the fat ( and therefore flavour ) . Finally , a lot of people ( me , for example ) find the taste of meringue powder to be disgusting . You do n't need it , and the vast majority of buttercream icing recipes do n't contain it . If you really want a meringue-based buttercream , as opposed to a simple buttercream without any egg products at all , then just go for broke and make it from an <URL> ; whip some egg whites to soft peaks , then whip boiling sugar syrup into the eggs until the mixture stiffens , and afterward incorporate the butter and other flavourings . I know , they 're going to tell you that it wo n't be stiff enough . But stabilizing a meringue is dead easy ; just bloom some gelatin in the cold liquid ( water/milk/cream ) before you incorporate it1 . The more gelatin , the stiffer it will get . Do n't overdo it because if you add too much gelatin , you wo n't even be able to get it out of the bag ( this has happened to me ) . A 1 % ratio should be plenty . Making a great-tasting decorating icing is easy . Stiffness is n't usually the problem , colour is . If you want brilliant white icing then you have to make certain tradeoffs . If you 're willing to settle for a cream colour ( or slightly whiter , with a whitener ) then you 've got nothing to worry about . 1 . If you 're not starting with a hot meringue , then be sure to heat the liquid with bloomed gelatin to dissolve before adding it to the icing !
I 'm still happily using a non-stick frying pan that I 've had for almost 4 years . I only use Teflon utensils . I never use harsh abrasives . After cooking , I fill it with boiling water , let it soak for a while and then wipe out with paper towels . Most of the time I just give it a quick rinse and it 's ready for the next time . And buy quality - " Quality is remembered long after the price is forgotten " .
If , when reducing a sauce , you are getting splashing outside the pot , your pot may be too small for the application . Use a larger pot : a wider base will allow more surface area for evaporation , and higher sides will make it harder for the content to get out . You can also purchase a splatter guard , which is like a flat sieve or mesh that you can place over the top of the pot to reduce splatter without blocking air flow although these are more typically used to reduce the splatter from frying .
end question
start question
Is there a quick , easy , mess-free way to peel an orange ( or grapefruit ) ?
Yes ! I just came across this , and it just so happens I could use an orange in a slaw I 'm making right now . <URL> Simply lop off the ends , make a small incision in the side and carefully open to reveal easy-to-eat orange segments . ( Or as I prefer to call it , an orange caterpillar . ) I did it with my orange , and I had never peeled an orange so quickly : Now if you just want to eat the orange , you can just pluck off the segments as you pop them into your mouth . If you roll the orange around a bit first , before you lop off the ends ( as in @Barry Staes ' answer ) , it should make it even easier and more pith-free . But what was really neat is that by prepping it that way , I had a pretty close approximation to supremes , supremely easily ! ( haha ) With two passes of the knife and 5 seconds of picking at it , this is close enough for my slaw . Just flatten the " caterpillar " as much as you can with one hand , and with one slice ( or two ) , cut between the peel and the segments . I just picked away most of the remaining connective " stuff " and membranes with the knife and my fingers at this point , but a pair of kitchen shears would make even quicker work out of it . It 's not absolutely perfect , the traditional method of supreming <URL> would be the way to go if you 're gunning for a Michelin Star , but this is fine for more casual applications . With the practice of a couple more oranges , I think I could go from an intact orange to " cheater " supremed segments in less than a minute ( and without getting my hands sticky ! ) Pretty cool . BTW , there is a pretty neat animated GIF on the linked page that will make it all clear if the pictures do n't . EDIT : It works even better with grapefruit ! Open the grapefruit just enough to use a pair of kitchen shears to cut away the the connective membrane from the " points " of the segments ( what would be at the center of intact fruit ) . While you 're at it , remove any seeds . Be careful when you roll out the " caterpillar " to separate every segment and to put pressure evenly on all parts of the peel . The peel is a bit more prone to tearing than orange peel . Since the membranes between the segments are more like leather and less fragile than the membranes on orange segments , they are very easy to pluck away . This makes the supremed segments perfect . This gives better results even than the traditional method of supreming !
Using a bicarbonate of Soda paste is a good way to clean the oven and does not involve any nasty chemicals . Also , as you need to clean the base of the oven , it can help if you remove the door if it is a drop down door . This makes reaching inside much easier . Most doors are designed to be removed easily . Sometimes your manual will provide instructions on how to remove the door for cleaning . Otherwise this video on <URL> may help as it covers four different types of hinge .
Cut out any green parts then remove the skin . If you can see any remaining green parts after the skin is removed then cut them out too . What you 'll have at this point will likely look and feel like any other peeled potato except with bits cut out . If it still feels soft or looks unusual throw it out , otherwise its fine . Just a normal potato whose skin had gone a bit wrinkly and soft .
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
Personally the only way I 've ever achieved a good suspension of vanilla in my Brûlée 's is by cooking the custard over a bain-marie until thick and ... custard like . Once it 's nice and thick I 'll then pour it into my molds and then bake them for 10-15 min at around 110 ° c just to finish off . Be very careful not to over cook them the last thing you want , after all that stirring over the bain-marie , is curdled eggs . The extra thickness of your custard helps stop the vanilla seeds sinking to the bottom . However , you will still get a little sink-age . The trick for Pannacotta , is to stir them as they begin to set . Or to whip them after they have set and then stick them back in their molds and chill again . This also helps make your Pannacotta lighter and aerated .
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
First , I would suggest you buy a higher quality can opener . I have a Swing-A-Way that I inherited from my grandmother . I think it 's older than me . Second , do n't submerge the can opener in water every time you use it . I only full out wash it on the rare occasion I splash or drop something all over it . The rest of the time I just use my dishcloth to wipe the blade and handles clean and let it dry in the dish rack before putting it away .
Bleach is your best bet . Scrub it with a long-handled scrub brush and either liquid bleach or Ajax and water . Let it soak a bit before rinsing it out . Since it 's stainless steel , the bleach wo n't do it any harm and will kill off any organics growing on it . In my experience , the pink stuff is a mold , not flouride .
Clingwrap works fine for me -- but I do n't use a meat tenderizer -- I just use a small but fairly heavy pan ( but not my cast iron , as it 's not smooth on the bottom ) . When I was in college , I tried a few things . I can get pretty decent results just hitting it with my cutting board . ( with it between saran wrap ) . Part of it might be technique -- if I 'm doing chicken breast I first slice is sort of following the taper of the breast , so it 's neither with or across the grain , but kinda of diagonal . You also do n't want to hit straight down -- you want to angle the blows , so you 're actually pushing the meat out , and not just trying to force it through the counter . And I should mention that I 've only ever pounded out poultry and pork -- I assume beef would be the same , but I have no experience to confirm or deny it .
By the wording of the question , I 'm pretty sure you 're using one of those pyramidal graters or a " sheet " grater . That 's great for getting the " bulk " , but if you want to grate a small amount of cheese ( or the last bit of a large amount , if you do n't want to just eat it ) then you really need to get yourself a <URL> . They 're more commonly used for fine/hard cheeses such as Parmesan , but most half-decent ones will come with a " coarse " blade that can be used for cheddar , mozzarella and so on . Rotary graters all have a plate at the top that lets you push the cheese down onto the blade . Higher-quality graters will give you slightly better results ; the $ 10 cheap ones tend to leave a mush at the bottom that 's hard to grate , even if you squeeze really hard , but that 's easily remedied with a small wooden block or really any object at all to put between the top plate and the cheese you 're trying to grate .
You could try lightly steaming it , but in all likelihood there 's no rescuing . Your best bet is to chop it and throw it in a blender to ' grate ' it . Alternatively , blend it with maltodextrin/dextrose to ( re ) obtain the powdery quality .
After washing them , fill them with a mild bleach solution ( one tablespoon for each cup of water ) and let them out in the sun exposing the stain for a whole day . Make sure children and animals can not reach the containers with bleach . There used to be a product called Cascade Plastic Booster that you could add to your dishwasher that would remove the stains . It 's no longer sold but its main ingredient was benzoyl peroxide at 5 % , which you may buy in most drugstores .
Two things . Use a sharper knife . Do n't chop , but slice gently . Let the weight of the blade do the cutting .
Restaurant supply stores carry degreaser , which will remove the brown baked on oil . However , that oil is n't hurting your cooking at all . It is the same thing that forms on cast iron skillets , but it is n't objectionable because you do n't notice the color against the black of the cast iron . If it works I 'd continue to use it . If you are thinking of changing , you might want to consider the cast iron Dutch Oven route . They hold their heat better than consumer deep fryers and a Dutch oven can do more than just deep fry . And they are easier to clean .
Piping bag is your answer . You just do n't use a tip on it .
It depends . If you need it to soften up for just a little while you can throw it in the mircowave for about 10-15 seconds . And by a little while , I mean the time it takes to make and eat a sandwich . Other than that , you can use the bread for breadcrumbs or croutons . Also , dry bread makes the best french toast you will ever have . Basically , you ca n't turn back time on a loaf but you can make it last longer by freezing it and thawing a slice at a time .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
Marinading should help a great deal , especially a good long marinade . The only other thing you can do is make sure not to overcook the beef . Cutting against the grain does n't guarantee tenderness any more than any other method will , it just helps , so do n't worry too much .
Use a deeper dish . Fries should n't be fried in a skillet . Use a 4 + quart pan . Then cover with a metal screen to reduce the splatter .
Vanilla sugar is incredibly easy to make . Store a whole vanilla bean in a jar of sugar , shaking it up every so often , until the sugar is vanilla flavored . That 's it . The time , I think , would depend on your bean and your taste .
end question
start question
For how long should I cook onion paste ?
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
There is one reason I might do this . If the core is green , that is starting to form a sprout . I cut that out as it can be bitter . Otherwise I do n't know why one would do that .
The cheesecake kept for 1 year just fine with no discernible off flavors or other problems . I 'm a homebrewer and we wound up putting the cheesecake into the freezer section of our spare ' beer fridge ' . That freezer is pretty much only used for overflow freezer space , and the refrigerator section is used for beer bottles and kegs , and we have had a few apples in the crispers for most of the year , but that 's it . The freezer section was rarely opened more than once per week . The cheesecake had no off flavors , and only had light water crystallisation on the surface , which was not at all detrimental to our enjoyment of the cake . This was a plain ' real ' cooked cheesecake with graham cracker crust . So , for a ' good enough ' storage method , wrap loosely in foil and store in a freezer that is rarely used , and the cheesecake should be excellent for at least one year .
Not long at all . Usually 1 minute is enough . If it starts to turn brown , it 's been in there too long .
I usually use 1/4 cup per person for a smallish portion , and 1/3 cup per person if you 're a bit hungrier . You 'll probably want to check the instructions for your rice cooker to check exactly how much water you should add as different manufacturers vary . I believe the one I used in the past needed an equal quantity of water to rice .
Browning ingredients ( both meat and vegetables including the aromatics ) before doing a braise or stew ( which is what slow cookers do ) helps develop depth of flavor , through the <URL> where proteins and carbohydrates react together to create a myriad of flavorful compounds . Vegetables that are high in sugar , such as onions or leeks , and even carrots may also have some <URL> , where sugars react with each other , again creating flavorful compounds . Especially with beef , these deep browned flavors are often what people associate with the product , and what they expect to taste . On the other hand , browning almost by definition overcooks the outside of meat well past well done , so it is somewhat drier and tougher , although this can be mitigated by a long braise Some experts recommend browning only on one side of cubed meat , to compromise between getting flavor development , and getting good texture . The one thing browning or searing does n't do is " seal in the juices " ; that is a myth that is well de-bunked . The choice to brown or not brown is one of taste and balance . It is traditional in many recipes , especially of Western European heritage . There are many traditions where browning is not as frequent , including true Mexican cuisine and many Asian cuisines . Choose what seems most appropriate and tasty to you in a given dish . Personally , I like the flavor development , and almost always opt for browning .
Broiling fish is extremely easy , although I would recommend saucing the fish after it is cooked as your BBQ sauce will most likely burn under the heat from the broiler . Your food should be about 8 to 12 inches away form the heat source , but most under oven broilers have a fixed height away from the flame . You need to make sure that your fish is fully scaled before cooking and you should season it with salt and pepper as well . Lay the fish on a pan , making sure that you lay it skin side down and that there is room on each side of each piece . Turn on your flame and slide the fish under the broiler , remove when the fish is flaky , white and lightly browned on top . If you are unsure if it is done , take a fork and twist it in the flesh of the fish and it should flake away fully white , it 's done . Then add your sauce and serve . Additionally , BBQ sauce will mostly overpower the flavor of your tilapia , you might find that whipping up a butter sauce or a white wine sauce will suit you better . Also , alot of fish does well with just a little salt , pepper , and lemon juice .
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
Even given a standardized recipe and method , cooking times are always only a guideline . Quality recipes always give you a test for knowing when the product is done . The reason for this is that there are many uncontrolled ( at least from the recipe author 's point of view ) such as , in the case of ribs : Exact dimensions of the ribs Natural variation in the composition of the ribs Starting temperature Variation in your particular oven That said , the variable most controlling over the time it takes to cook ribs , given a standard recipe and method , is the thickness of the set of ribs . A longer strip of ribs ( btw , the full set of ribs on one side is called a slab of ribs -- country ribs are not normally sold this way ) does n't make much difference , as the heat will penetrate through the thinnest dimension . Ribs are a complex food to cook as they benefit from low-and-slow cooking methods , which allow the touch connective tissue of the ribs ( collagen ) to slowly convert to unctuous gelatin . This conversion is temperature dependent , taking many , many many hours at around 140 F , but happening in an hour or two at 180 F. Note also that <URL> are a different cut than <URL> ( the baby variety come from a younger , smaller animal ) . Country style ribs are cut with a lot of meat on the bone . In practical recipes , the amount of time this takes will depend on the exact cooking method such as braising , roasting , or barbequing . Recipe request themselves are off-topic here at Seasoned Advise , but you can find many recipes easily by googling " <URL> " . Indivdual recipes will give you a guideline for a basic cooking time related to the method used in that recipe , and a test or condition for knowing when they are done . For example , this recipe for <URL> s from the Food Network suggests an estimated cooking time of 1 1/2 hour braising , and tells you that they are done when when the meat is tender ( which you would test by poking with a fork , or just trying some ) . An alternate method , as suggested in <URL> from Cooks.com is to roast the ribs in the oven . They use three-stage method where the ribs are covered in foil in the middle stage , but the total cooking time is about 3 1/4 hours . They carefully describe how you know when the ribs are done : " the meat should just about fall off the bone . " . Note : I have n't tried these particular recipes ; they only serve as examples . The bottom line is , ribs are generally done when they are quite tender , which you can easily tell by poking them with a fork or trying them . How long this takes will depend on what method you used , the size of your ribs , and a myriad other factors , but will be on the order usually of 2-3 hours .
Consider what the " no cheating " version of the ingredient is , and get the closest thing to that , that 's convenient enough for you . For things like garlic , ginger , etc. , the " no-cheating " version is to get the fresh ingredients and crush/grate them - what you end up with is a paste . The paste you can buy in jars is this stuff , with preservatives added to make them last . Some flavour will be lost . To make powder , the paste is dried , and more flavour is lost . But the powder will keep for a long time in the cupboard . Note that some spices take on different , desirable flavours when processed . Paprika powder has its own properties when compared to fresh paprika peppers . You 'd use fresh ginger in many curries , powdered ginger in many cakes , candied ginger in some other sweet dishes . Recipes will specify what to use . For things like black pepper , cumin , turmeric , coriander seeds , the " no-cheating " version is to get whole seeds , roast them and grind them in a spice grinder or a pestle and mortar . So buying the ready-ground version is only one step away from the ideal . Try grinding your own at least once . The extra depth and complexity of flavour is striking . But for convenience , ready-ground spices are fine . " Roasting " , for small quantities of whole dry spice , involves briefly heating them on a hot dry pan . It brings out spice flavours you do n't get from just frying or boiling the spice . Of course , it 's optional . Ground spices have a shorter shelf life than whole dry spices . If you open a jar of powdered spice and it does n't have a strong aroma , throw it away -- you might as well use dust . Whole spices have the aroma " locked away " , to be released when you grind . To make a paste , these are sometimes mixed with wet ingredients ( like garlic and ginger ) , water and oil . That 's the basis of the jars of " spice mix " you can buy in supermarkets . It 's also the first step in many curry recipes -- grind your spices , mix with oil to make a paste , and gently fry before adding the onions .
Dupe , but a good question . See Satanicpuppies answer here : <URL> I know you asked re : cranberry sauce specifically , but this is a great article regarding the differences in sugars , generically , which might help in the future : " Sugar can be a single molecule made up of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen -- like glucose and fructose . Other sugars , like sucrose , or white table sugar , are made up of multiple molecules ( in this case , one glucose and one fructose ) , tied together with chemical bonds . Now , when sucrose is heated with an acid , it breaks back down into the two smaller sugars , glucose and fructose , resulting in something we call invert sugar . This small chemical change makes a big difference : While sucrose is hygroscopic , invert sugar is even more water-loving . And this can make a tremendous difference when , say , you want to bake a chewy , rather than crunchy , cookie . " <URL>
Given your lack of tools , we 're going to have to get <URL> on this roast . You 'll need some sort of flavorful liquid ( or a combination of them ) . Chicken stock or beef stock would work . I 'd normally also recommend using something acidic like red wine or tomatoes , however , using this method ( which is based on tinfoil ) , acids can react with the aluminum to produce off flavors . If you want to cook with wine or tomatoes , you can transfer the meat to your casserole after you brown it . ( More on this below . ) You 'll also need some type of mild tasting oil . Vegetable , corn , canola/rapeseed , peanut , light olive oil , will all work . Salt . That 's it in terms of software . Hardware : Paper towels . Tinfoil ( preferably the big , wide kind , and heavy duty ) . An oven . That 's it . Algorithm : This is basically the same technique that <URL> proposed , just using different tools . Adjust your oven 's rack to about 6 inches from the broiler . Turn on your oven 's broiler on its highest setting . Lay out two layers of tinfoil on your counter . Make sure the tinfoil is big enough such that if you were to place the roast in the middle of it there would be a border of tinfoil around the roast that is at least as wide as the roast itself . Optional : Put the tinfoil on a large sheetpan or cookie sheet . This will help you in transporting the device to/from the oven , and it will also ensure against spillage in your oven . If you do things right you wo n't have to wash the sheet . Pat the meat as dry as you can get it and put it in the center of the tinfoil . Pour a bit of oil on top of the roast and rub it all over . You only need enough to barely coat the entire roast . Generously salt both sides of the roast . I prefer using kosher salt , because it is less saline by volume , so you can more evenly distribute it without over-salting . You 'll probably use a good tablespoon or so . Put the roast under the broiler . Wait about 5 minutes , but that number is n't exact . Use your eyes . Just wait until it looks good and brown and crusty and delicious . Just do n't blacken the entire thing . When the top side is browned , flip it over to the other side . The best tool for the job here is a pair of tongs , but a fork will do . Brown the second side . Remove the roast ( which is hopefully on top of some type of pan for your convenience ) . Turn off your broiler and reset your oven to 275 degrees F. Fold up the sides of the tinfoil around the roast to make a sort of pan around it . Try to leave as little room around the roast as possible . Alternatively , if you want to use acidic ingredients , you can transfer the roast to the casserole at this point . The reason why you could n't use your casserole from scratch is that it is probably not broiler-safe . Pour in enough of the beef/chicken stock to just barely cover the roast . It should n't require very much liquid . Once the liquid is in , fold the tinfoil on itself to seal the top , such that you end up with a tinfoil package containing the browned meat and the stock . Try and make it airtight . Stick that in the 275 F oven . Just let it sit in there for ~ 3 hours . You do n't need to touch it . After ~ 3 hours , take it out . Hopefully the tinfoil did n't leak . If you did this correctly , all the cleanup you need to do is crumple up the foil and throw it out . You can also experiment with adding other vegetables ( e.g. , thinly sliced onions or whole garlic cloves ) . You can even add them from the very beginning . As I mentioned in a comment on <URL> answer , bottom round roasts have a lot of tough connective tissue which needs to be cooked low and slow ( < 300F ) in the oven in order to become soft and tender . However , if you were to cook the beef the entire way at that temperature the meat would end up being gray and tasteless . The reason is that the <URL> ( which are what turn the meat golden brown and make it taste more meaty and delicious ) do n't really occur below ~ 300F , which is the purpose of the initial sear .
Nope . Haha :) Brining will give you a softer texture . I have brined duck for varying times ( depending on how much of a rush I was in ) and brining really does help with the texture . You can sear it beforehand , some Maillard reaction will help in flavour development , but when I cook sous vide for more than 8 hours , I do n't bother : the meat will go green/grey , which means I need to sear afterwards anyway . So I usually just sear at the end . If your meat does n't have that much fat , or anything to keep it moist , it can go dry . Adding some butter , or maybe rendered Wagyu fat in the case of your steak , might help . As for bacteria , the longer you cook sous vide , the more you kill off the nasties . It so happens that Douglas Baldwin has a short bit about flat iron steak : <URL> Hope that helps :)
Slice off 1/2 " of the top of the onion ( opposite the root ) Place onion root side up , and make slices all the way through , staying at least 1/2 " away from the root Flip it over and spread apart the leaves This is best described with <URL> . Alternatively , if you 're willing to drop a few hundred dollars , you can buy a bloomin ' onion cutter . This is what restaurants use . There are cheaper alternatives , but I ca n't vouch for their quality or ease of use .
I own one , and have tried it for both those uses , but with mediocre results compared to other techniques . For crème brûlée , I get more even caramelization by placing the individual custards under a broiler . The only benefit I could appreciate from using the torch was that it was quicker , and I could monitor the caramelization more easily . ( The broiler technique is the one recommended in <URL> for the perfect crème brûlée . ) For peppers , the torch dries out and blackens the skin without really cooking the interior . Again I have had better results in a broiler/hot oven , or on a grill . The torch is most definitely fun , but so far I have n't found it to be necessary ; I 'll be interested , however , if someone else has found the perfect use ( s ) for a culinary torch .
I have seen recipes that call for chopped white onions instead of pearl onions , which leads me to believe it is feasible . The texture might be different ; when cooked , pearl onions tend to have a different sort of bite to them , much like a grape , revealing a burst of flavor after a slight resistance , whereas chopped fullsize onions tend to be more one-note and soft . I do n't know for sure what pickling does to the texture , but if it is beneficial to use whole onions for a similar effect , you 'll lose that . I suspect the flavor penetration would be greater , however , due to the cutting .
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
end question
start question
How do you keep corned beef from falling apart in the crockpot ?
Did you let the meat cool completely before attempting to slice it ? Even meat that is completely-fall-apart tender straight out of the ( crock ) pot will firm up quite a bit when cooled .
I have n't tried this before but I found <URL> that shows you how . Cut into the mango , starting where the stem was and going around the long way , just in to the pit . Reach in with a spoon and scoop around the pit , separating one half of the mango from the pit . Then scoop the pit out of the other side .
This does n't answer your question directly , but spices are only a small part of the picture . Below are some techniques to get more flavor in your soup . Longer Cooking Depending on the type of soup you 're making , you may just need more time . Some flavors just need more time to get out . This is especially true of meat and bones . It 's possible to make a ham and pea soup in an hour , but simmer that ham for 3 hours and it 's night and day . Rest overnight Many stews , chili , etc. seem taste " better " the next day . Give an overnight rest in the fridge a shot and see if the flavor improves . Add volatile flavors later There is a caveat to go along with longer cooking . Some items work over long cooking times , while others lose flavor . In addition to meat/bones , garlic , onion , bay leaves ( and others ) benefit . Many fresh herbs , pepper , vanilla , saffron ( and others ) lose their flavor from the heat . If you are cooking for a while , you might try adding some more volatile flavors later in the process . Add salt early Salt helps to extract flavors , so add it early on in the process . Do be judicious with it , however . Long cooking tends to concentrate flavors , so you can easily make it too salty . Sweat vegetables / brown meat Before getting any water involved , sweat your onions , celery , peppers , mushrooms , or whatever vegetables or playing in this game . Likewise , brown your meat . The maillard reaction is necessary for developing great flavor from the meat .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
Biscuits are notorious for that ; they 're best eaten right away . If you want to preserve their original texture longer than 12 hours ( yes , that short of a time ) , your best bet is to freeze them as soon as they are cool and eat them within a month or two . Wrap them as air-tightly as possible . You can pop the frozen biscuits in a moderate oven or unwrap and give them an hour or so on the counter to defrost , then warm them . Either way , it 's best to serve them warm , they will seem softer and fresher that way . If you 've found a recipe you like and think you might want to make them frequently , mix the dry ingredients for multiple batches . If you can weigh the dry mix that you have just mixed , then you 're golden . You can make as many or as few biscuits as you want anytime just by using the same proportion of dry , fat and liquid as the original recipe . You can easily make a single biscuit that way or feed a crowd .
Wilting in greens is triggered by temperature , pH , and salt content . To reduce wilting , you can cool the vegetables or shrimp , make the vegetables more acidic * , or decrease their salt content . My suggestion would be to cool the shrimp with an ice water bath or cold running water . This is the most traditional approach for shrimp salad . Alternately , you could apply an acidic dressing before topping , but wait to salt it until the shrimp have cooled to 140F . Alternately , wilting of vegetables adds a rather interesting variation in flavor or texture to a salad . This technique has been desirable and in vogue at various times . Why does this all happen ? Plant cells wilt when cooking breaks apart the cellulose-based cell walls , and allows water to escape , causing them to soften . To quote On Food and Cooking ( pp 282 ) : When the tissue reaches 140F/60C , the cell membranes are damaged , the cells lose water and deflate , and the tissue as a whole goes from firm and crisp to limp and flabby . Acids will impede wilting , because the cell walls are held together with hemicellulose , and it is " not very soluble in an acid environment " ( pp 282 ) . Table salt is a problem , because " its sodium ions displace the calcium ions that cross-link and anchor the cement molecules in the fruits and vegetable walls , thus breaking the cross-links and helping dissolve the hemicelluloses " ( pp 283 ) . Calcium has the opposite affect , so if you can use hard water or add calcium salts , do so . * Acidic solutions will reduce green colors ( On Food and Cooking , pp 280-281 ) , but preserve texture ( 282 ) .
Most flavor molecules from marinades do n't penetrate much below the surface of the meat . ( Salt and to a lesser extent sugar are exceptions : they will gradually work their way in deeper in long marinades . ) Anyhow , if you actually want your marinade flavors to penetrate more than about 1/8 " into the meat , the only real option is injection . But if you do n't want to do that , poking holes or even gashing the surface with rough knife cuts will help a bit . You can see some photos at <URL> , showing how a colored dye ( whose molecule size is as big as typical flavor molecules ) does n't get below the surface , but gashes and holes can help carry it deeper . I do n't know that there are any real drawbacks to the method , other than having a craggy surface on the meat . As Jolenealaska pointed out in comments , the idea that significant moisture loss occurs from piercing is mostly a myth . ( For more detail on that , see <URL> . )
For long term storage of TVP once it has been cooked , I prefer to bake it into crumbles so that the moisture is reduced ( and it adds to the toothsomeness of it ) before storage . To bake it into crumbles , just lay out in small meatball-style heaps on parchment and bake until dried through . This is beneficial in both freezer ( yes , it freezes very well and reheats in about the same time as when refrigerated ) and refrigerator storage as the moisture will burn in the freezer and turn the TVP texture grainy , and in the fridge it can soak up some stray smells easily . When wet , I find that storing it for between 3-5 days does n't make it too soggy and limp when reheating , for longer than that I find it preferable to freeze not for the sake of contamination but because it preserves the texture better and the flavor and takes up less fridge space .
Most cured products last 7-10 days in the fridge although you most likely will see a quality drop off before then at around day three or four . You can also freeze the bacon for up to two months and thaw for use to extend the shelf life .
Supermarket ' stew beef ' is notoriously unreliable . Its often just scraps of beef that the butcher or market ca n't sell otherwise . My stews were hit and miss for years while I tried to tweak cooking time and such . But then one day I watched a movie on rouxbe.com ( paywall , sorry ) and they talked about not using ' stew beef ' - its often too lean and does n't have the ' stuff ' to produce tender , but juicy bits . They strongly recommended cutting up your own from a chuck ... and they were so , so , so right . In short , cutting up your own chuck is by far the better route - if you 're looking for ' stew beef ' .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
I used to remove the paddle before the second rising to avoid breaking the bread . Did not find any other good way of doing it .
You can probably get away with high heat , but you need to watch the liquid content . Since you 're not cooking something that is liquid and can circulate to heat evenly , you risk burning the food or having it dry out . I ca n't see any reason this needs to cook for such a long time . Ground beef is finely divided , so cooking for extended times wo n't benefit it that much . I 'd say bring it to a boil either on high in the crock pot or on the stove , then transfer to the crockpot for 2 + hours ( as long as you have ) .
Topside is quite a tough cut , so I 'd tend towards a longer cooking time ; as ' low and slow ' as possible , really . With other meats , escalopes are usually made using leaner cuts , like chicken breast or pork tenderloin , which would be cooked relatively quickly , so I 'm surprised your recipes call for topside .
You can eat even shell . Ground shell is used in French <URL> to thicken the soup and make it more flavored .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
Because of the different shapes , different pastas will occupy different volumes of space both before and after cooking . There are two answers that readily occur to me , one simple one more complex . The simple solution , of course , is just to make too much . Cook your pasta , put in the casseroles with sauce or adding the sauce after , depending on your recipe , and if you have too much ( you should , you planned for it ) let it cool , add mayo , mustard , onion , some pickle relish and make pasta salad . Or throw in soup . Or ... Option two is to measure your pasta by volume when dry , assuming that it approximately doubles in size . So you 'll need to fill one of your casseroles with dry pasta , and that should give you enough to make two casseroles worth , once you have cooked the pasta .
Presumably you are experiencing rancidity , due to oxygen . While you have nitrogen flushed the bags at filling time , the bags are not impervious to oxygen diffusion . A different type of bag ( an " oxygen barrier " bag material ) or package ( glass jar , or metal can ) and , in addition , ( based on other packaging I have seen ) oxygen absorbing packets inside the bag may be required for long shelf life . Either alone would probably extend the shelf-life somewhat .
When I get this , it 's almost always old grease that did n't get washed off properly in the first place . We have some newer storage containers that are , for some reason , really strongly attractive to grease and have to be washed very carefully with lots of detergent or they 're sticky next time we go to use them . My usual solution is to rub the whole thing with undiluted dishwashing liquid and let it sit a minute or two . Then I rub/rinse with the hottest water I can stand until it 's all squeaky clean . This usually works . If your grease is several layers deep or really old , you might have to resort to a grease cutter like Formula 409 or one of the citrus-based degreasers , followed up with plenty of detergent . I would not use solvent any stronger than a commercial cleaning spray because of the risk of damaging the plastic . I also would not scour the plastic . The scratching will make it exponentially harder to get all the way clean , and the deepest scratches can harbor bacteria ( ask any home brewer who scoured his brew bucket how much it increases the risk of infection ) .
end question
start question
Why are some kind of packets-soups boiled up in lukewarm water , while normally just stirred into already boiling water ?
Some ingredients do not dissolve well in hot water - the starch swells and thickens , forming lumps that may have raw powder in them and are nasty . They need to be added to cold or lukewarm water and heated after they are dissolved . Other ingredients , most notably pasta , will partially dissolve in cold water making a thick gloppy soup . But if you add them to hot water they will " seal " ( in a way ) and stay together as they cook .
All moving water has dissolved oxygen in it . That is what fish breath Dissolved oxygen is reactive , and will most likely extract more substances from the tea leaf , than without it . If these are the good flavour parts of tea , I do not know ? When you heat water it starts to release the dissolved oxygen . The more you heat water the more oxygen escapes You can buy tea making kettles that bring water up to 95 ° C ( 203 ° F ) , but not boiling , so as to decrease the amount of dissolved oxygen lost , but still making the water hot enough to brew tea . They also save energy :-) I use one of these , and am happy with it <URL> Some people " watch " their kettle , and switch it off just before the water boils ! It is a personal taste preference if tea tastes better when brewed in water with more dissolved oxygen or not
Folding is almost always done when you have one ingredient like whipped cream , egg whites , meringue , or similar which has had a lot of air whipped into it , and you are incorporating that with another ingredient . The folding motion is meant to disturb the whipped ingredient is little as possible , in order to retain the whipped in air , and thus the volume of the mixture . If you simply whisk , or beat , the air would be beaten out . Whipping the egg whites or whipped cream alone forms a foam with nothing but the air and the fat in whipped cream , or the protein network in egg whites . It us unstable much like the bubbles we used to blow as children . If you add another ingredient , like flour , it can act as an abrasive , popping the little bubbles and deflating the foam . Ingredients which can dissolve fully , and so wo n't be abrasive to the buddies , can still dissolve into the foam walls , and change their chemistry to the point where they do n't hold air any more , again collapsing them . So even though the motion still might be called whisking or whipping , the result is not the same . There are only a few ingredients , such as sugar for whipped cream or egg whites , that can dissolve into the foam walls and not disrupt it , and these ingredients are best incorporated in the original whipping phase where the air is incorporated . Even with folding , there is some volume loss ; the goal is to minimize it .
I 'll leave the question of food safety and mandatory canning or not with regard to ingredients to others , but frankly , if you have a large pot in your kitchen you have a canner . For small batches and only very occasional use , there is no need to buy a separate canner . Place a small metal rack ( if you have one small enough ) or a folded towel on the bottom of the pot ( I like to use my pasta pot with the insert ) , put jars on top and fill with water until almost to the top of the tallest jar . Yes , you can process jars of different sizes in one batch . Rule of thumb : cold jars go in cold water , hot jars in hot water . This setup is equivalent to a separate canner minus the extra gadgets like timer , thermometer / thermostat and other features that are for your comfort and ease of use , not essential for the physical process of heating and sealing the jars . So if you want to play it safe , put your sauce in the jars1 , add lids and screw them on with the bands " fingertip tight " . Place them in the water bath and slowly bring to a boil . Once your water is simmering , " canning time " starts . Off the cuff , ten to fifteen minutes should be fine for a cooked BBQ sauce , longer is n't a problem either . After that , lift the jars out and cool slowly in a drought-free area . If done correctly the lid will stick to the jar even without the bands , so you get an extra safety mechanism : If your sauce should spoil , the lid will come off , being a clear indication of trouble . But my main reason why I suggest canning the jars is this : If you ship your sauce , you have no control over the storage conditions of your jars during transit and - depending on the destination - constant refrigeration or similar might not be possible everywhere on this world . That alone would be reason enough to do the extra step , which is surprisingly easy once you give it a try . I suggest leaving the rings on during shipping and instructing the recipient to remove them on arrival to notice any signs of spoilage . 1 This includes the usual steps done even without canning , e.g. cleaning the jars and lids , " sterilizing " them in your oven or in boiling water , keeping the rims of the jars clean and filling the hot food immediately into the jars . In short , what you would normally do to ensure general cleanliness and food safety .
If you try regular oats and like them , then you might try flaked/rolled barley , if you can find it . If you have refrigeration at work ( or just bring in one-day 's worth each morning ) , you could also add wheat germ ( I ca n't imagine having a bowl-ful of it , but adding some to your oats would change them up . ) Wheetabix or shredded wheat can also be prepared with boiling water for a hot cereal . Late recall - " Grape Nuts ® " is another one that can be done hot , even if it normally is n't .
To me , the key to your question " five minutes . " I 'm no scientist , but I ca n't imagine that this is harmful . I agree with Aaronut 's answer in that I think it takes a much , much longer period of time for problems to develop . When people warn you about thawing in hot water , they 're envisioning something more like taking a solidly-frozen piece of meat from the freezer , and thawing it in hot water .
Fat floats , so if you dump the water into a bowl and let it sit for a bit , you can see how much floats to the top . You can then remove the fat in any of the normal ways ( this is exactly the process you use to defat a stock or a soup ) , and measure it . Of course , I quickly looked up the nutrition information on ramen , and it has ~ 7g fat , ~ 3g saturated . An egg is ~ 6g fat , ~ 2g saturated . The fish is ~ 27g fat , ~ 6g saturated . Check your red curry seasoning as well ( varies a lot by brand/type ) So it seems like your approach is misguided , but nutrition questions are off-topic here . edit : From thinking about your comment , you may want to try switching to spaghetti . You can just break it until it fits in the bowl , and it should be cookable in a bowl in the microwave , or even soaking in boiling water . You wo n't get perfect al dente or anything close , and my Italian ancestors will be after me for even suggesting this , but it will cut down on the fat . You can even get whole-wheat spaghetti .
Adding your pasta to cold water before boiling it may help . You will need to stir more often overall , but the shells wo n't initially stick together as soon as you add them to the water , and then you can stir to prevent the sticking as they become softer . <URL> wrote this : I prefer starting with cold water , because the noodles do n't stick together at all as they go into the pot , and because I do n't notice a difference in flavor once they 're drained and sauced . As Jefromi said , what happens is that the starch on the noodles gets rinsed off in the water before it can gelatinize and stick to everything . So you will have to stir even before the water gets warm .
Adding a starchy substance such as rice or noodles to boiling water increases the surface tension of the water . When it 's just plain water boiling the surface tension of the water ca n't hold back the force of the steam rising and the bubbles burst . Starches increase this surface tension making the bubbles more elastic/pliable ( essentially creating a foam ) , thus requiring more force for them to burst . This makes the bubbles last longer which allows them to build up and eventually boil over . It 's more likely to occur with anything starchy like rice and pasta . A lower temperature should help to control a boil over as it will allow the water to cool somewhat and slow the boil . I 'd assume that , from your quoted text , that if you use less water you 're still imparting the same amount of starch making a thicker solution . More water would dilute this and bring it closer to normal water . In my own experience , small amounts of water allow lots of bubbles to form but nothing really boils over , it just splatters a bit . But reducing temperature and tilting the lid to let some air in has helped me in the past .
Yes . Water boils at about 212F ( 100C ) and meat is cooked from 140F to 160F . If you left the meat in there for a very long time it would eventually approach 212F and start to get tough . The time that they give you is going to be the time it takes to ensure that the meat is safe to eat . Generally I like it to be closer to the rare side as it is more tender that way .
Use the pasta cooking techniques in this answer : <URL> Bring just enough water to cover the pasta to a boil , put the lid on and let it sit . Use less water , less energy , and it ca n't boil over if it 's not boiling .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
Could n't I just use a lower temperature setting ? No , you ca n't . Ovens are very bad at keeping a constant temperature . Not only is the oven thermostat usually off , it also cycles around its mean temperature a lot . So your food is subjected to constantly changing temperature . If you were to set your oven to 100C , you 1 ) wo n't get really 100C , and 2 ) wo n't get the crust to brown , as the temperature is too low . Instead , you can use the water bath described . In combination with a temperature setting higher than 100C , it will keep the bottom portion of the cheesecake at a constant temperature , and will allow the surface to bake well . You will see water bath ( i.e. <URL> ) recommendations for many types of baked goods , including custards . But when it comes to a cheesecake , it has a second function . At each temperature , there is an equilibrium moisture in the oven air . As long as the equilibrium has not been reached , moisture evaporates at a high rate from every moist surface ( your baking good ) . When this happens to a cheesecake , its top cracks . But when you have an open water surface , it is sufficient to saturate the air , and no ( or very little ) evaporation happens on the cake surface . You end up with a smooth cheesecake .
Some ingredients do not dissolve well in hot water - the starch swells and thickens , forming lumps that may have raw powder in them and are nasty . They need to be added to cold or lukewarm water and heated after they are dissolved . Other ingredients , most notably pasta , will partially dissolve in cold water making a thick gloppy soup . But if you add them to hot water they will " seal " ( in a way ) and stay together as they cook .
Well in Chinese cooking we use a wide variety actually . Typically speaking ... Medium or Long Grain Rice White Rice Fried Rice Sweet Rice or Glutinous Rice Sticky Rice ( You commonly see this at Dim Sum places in the sticky rice dishes wrapped in lotus leaves , among other places . ) There are others of course , but those are the common ones you 'll find since you were asking about Chinese Takeout . The shorter the grain , the more " sticky " it will be . However , that does n't mean that long grain rice should come out grainy either . I suppose different restaurants will do it differently , around here they generally use long grain rice for " white rice " . This is how my mother taught me to make rice : Wash Rice a few times till there is n't any more murkiness . Add water till it reaches your first knuckle on your pointer finger when the tip is just barely touching the rice ( should generally work for any amount of rice ) . Bring to boil , turn to simmer . Check back in 10 to 15 minutes If the water is mostly gone , and it is n't at the texture you like , you can always add a bit more water . Let it sit for a few minutes after the heat is off . In China , you 'll find all different grains . I 've seen both short and long grains , and have seen plain white , long grain rice served as well .
When I go to the Korean supermarkets in LA , I usually see half an aisle just dedicated to 고추가루 in all kinds of forms ( mild to spicy , fine to coarse grind ) and colors . I do n't know that there 's any specific pepper than it is all about how sweet and mildly spicy 고추가루 is supposed to be . You could start from there to make your own by sun drying and crushing whatever peppers are available to you . If you are looking for a substitute that you can buy at a western store , try crushed red pepper flakes ( the kind you see in the shakers at pizza places ) . You 're going to be adjusting for taste/spiciness anyway , so not much of a dealbreaker .
Notice how dogs enjoy gnawing on bones ? Ever been to a restaurant where they serve bone marrow ? Boiling bones in water draws flavor out of them . Most canned broth and stock you buy -- beef stock , chicken stock , etc -- is just this -- water boiled with bones for hours . Most literature I 've read suggests using raw bones , but some recipes call for roasted bones -- the ones I 've seen most often involve roasted veal bones . I 've also made stock from roasted chicken bones . The stock does still take on flavor . It 's easier to get good flavor from unused bones , though . Additionally , I 've found another pitfall . I 've tried to make stock from the leftover bones of bbq 'd ribs . This was not a good idea . The broth had a savory flavor , as intended . Unfortunately it also had the background taste of bbq sauce . Now , when I do make stocks , I 'd consider using leftover bones , but there have to be enough bones leftover ( otherwise I get very little stock for my time or it 's weak on flavor ) the bones ca n't be " tainted " by other flavors ( like bbq sauce ) To answer your original question , try this : start with a pot of plain water put about 4 lb of bones in per gallon of water while it 's still cold , add ~ 1 tsp of vinegar per gallon of water Once the water comes to a boil , lower the heat so that it 's just simmering this keeps the stock from getting cloudy/white ( which does n't taste bad , just looks worse ) leave boiling for about 6-8 hours , minimum . Longer is fine , but you wo n't get too much more at this point . turn off heat , allow stock to cool fully , strain it for the bones , refrigerate you can speed up this step by putting the pot in a sink full of cool water do NOT put a hot pot in your fridge . It will heat up the fridge significantly and just make the food in there go bad . Use this to make soups make sauces ( reduce it first ) as a substitute for water in savory dish preparations ( i.e. make rice with stock instead of water . Be creative here ) The main benefits here are flavor and nutrients , but I just do it for the flavor . Cutting bones up does improve the extraction process , but if the marrow is exposed already ( most beef/veal bones will be ) you 're fine . If you save old bones , freeze them until you have enough . Do n't bother trying to make stock with the bones from one chicken .
Any recipe where the water is part of a sauce or is expected to be absorbed ( including rice , couscous , and yes , pasta too ) , you can use stock instead to increase the deliciousness . If you have an opportunity to add flavour , why waste it ? Of course , there are some caveats to consider when making the substitution : Stock is going to contain a certain amount of gelatin ( how much depends on how the stock is made ) . This is often a good thing , leading to a richer mouth-feel , but if the thickening effect would be detrimental to your recipe , then do n't use stock . Stock can clash with other flavours , although less often than you 'd expect , since it 's effectively a mega-dose of umami . In particular I 'd probably avoid using it in recipes that are either very sour ( sour meat is the taste of rancidity and highly displeasing ) or very sweet ( since the sugar will overwhelm the flavour of the stock ) . So do n't use it in your candies or in your pickling solutions , but any dish based primarily on meats , vegetables , and grains , is definitely fair game . Because it 's a meat product , it has a limited life span . I would n't recommend substituting it for water in anything that 's going to sit in the fridge for several days and/or be re-frozen , due to food safety concerns . Oh , and I probably would n't use it in baking . The effects of using homemade stock when the primarily role of the liquid is to develop gluten would be unpredictable , to say the least . And somehow the thought of turkey-flavoured cake just does n't sound very appealing to me . As for the right ratio - that depends entirely on what went into the stock , how long it was simmered for and whether or not the stock itself was reduced prior to storing/freezing . You 're definitely going to want the same total amount of liquid , but if the stock is highly gelatinous then you might want to dilute it , and conversely , if the stock is very weak then you might want to reduce it . There really is no golden ratio , but I 'd probably stick with 1:1 for a " typical " stock .
Well there 's a few things . First , higher temperatures mean more volatile aroma and flavour compounds will be released , leaving a flatter-tasting stock . Second , boiling means more motion within the liquid , which makes it harder to skim off the protein scum which forms on the surface while a stock is cooking . In addition , some of the scum will just become reincorporated into the stock via a process similar to emulsion . Third , boiling induces faster breakdown of proteins and other particulate matter , leaving you with a cloudier end product . This is of course of very little concern for stocks which will end up incorporated into ( opaque ) soups or sauces . Of the three , only the first is of any real concern to home cooks . The other two issues are n't a huge deal at the restaurant level ( modulo need for clarity in consomme etc ) , particularly if the restaurant uses Superbags or algae filtration for clarifying stocks .
Adding milk works because <URL> . It might even work better , as it also contains sugar ( lactose ) which will be eaten by your starter 's yeasts and bacteria . But it also contains other stuff , such as fats . And fats , after some time , get rancid . You probably wo n't want that taste in bread or pancakes . I would stick to water ( which quite probably you 'll find cheaper than milk ) . Do n't worry about rotten milk : your starter is already rotten . And it 's a hostile environment for most microbes . It 's very very improbable new microbes would survive there . But if they do , they 'll be quite similar to the already existing ones .
end question
start question
Why are my caramelized onions dried out ?
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
Most of the weight in fresh fruit is water , which has no calories . When you dry the fruit , the remainder is concentrated , so there are more calories in a given volume or weight . <URL> is a preservative with anti-microbial properties . The claim of 3.6 times the energy is specious .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
It sounds like you may be having temperature control issues . If it 's not dark enough , keep it over low heat for a bit longer . If it 's hardening/burning , it 's probably caused by one of the following : 1 ) your stovetop ( if burner is n't turned low enough or burner is too large and overheats sides of pan ) 2 ) your pan ( easy to burn things if your pan is n't sufficiently thick-bottomed ) 3 ) lack of attention during the carmelization process ( you need to move the sugar towards the center once carmelization begins to prevent burning at the edges , but not stir it too much ) . You might find these <URL> helpful for troubleshooting .
First off , how do you store your yeast ? Storing yeast in the fridge helps it to last longer ; I 've had some yeast in my fridge for a year that is still going strong . As your yeast begins to become ineffective , I would personally get new yeast . Once yeast looses its power , you 're simply not going to get the same effect out of it .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
Chives are an herb , green onions are part of ... well an onion . They are often used in similar ways and in similar dishes . You can substitute one for the others in most cases , but I could not say they are interchangeable . They have distinct flavors and it will change the dish to change the ingredient . Also do not attempt to replace green onion with dried chives 1-to-1 ( or fresh chives for that matter ) . Dried chives , not uncommonly found in pre-packaged spice racks , have about as much flavor as straw and will not deliver the desired result ( unless you like straw ) .
My italian grandma does it , but says to really make sure they dry out . You can dry them out and then freeze them , if it makes you feel any less hesitant .
Hojicha is a green tea which is made from bancha , a low grade green tea , and cooked slightly ; this very inexpensive green tea often comes out brown because it is discolored by oxidation . Other than this variety , and some very stale bancha , I ca n't think of a Japanese green tea that comes out brown . Some stale kukicha might come out brown , and low quality genmaicha made with poor quality kukicha could be brownish from the combination of excess oxidation and the toasted rice . Most of the non-Japanese green teas I 've seen sold as " green tea " and some lower quality teabags marked as " sencha " are broken down tea leaves that can easily oxidize in the packaging to the point where they are , at best , yellowish . However , if you use even a moderate quality sencha , and it is n't stale , it should come out green . Most good quality kukicha and genmaicha will at least come out greenish-yellow . Since most Japanese restaurants use a fairly inexpensive second-harvest sencha , I imagine you 're either buying hojicha or simply using a very stale , low-quality sencha . Chinese green teas are sometimes slightly yellow , but if they 're actually yielding a brown brew , they , too are either stale or are simply mislabeled oolong . I used to sell a fair amount of green tea when I ran a small scale import business . I do recall even matcha products turning brown after being exposed to excessive sunlight ; one of the bakeries I know was constantly running into issues with their matcha pound cake slices on sunny days , especially those pieces in the front of their pastry case . So it 's reasonably possible you simply have tea which has been stored improperly ; you 're best off with a nitrogen flushed tea and it should be used within about 6 months of opening the sealed package . If your tea comes unsealed , it probably is n't in very good shape to begin with . In any event , my recommendation is to try a first-harvest high-mountain grown sencha that is sold in nitrogen-flushed aluminum packages . Depending on the style , the brewed color will be either very green or slightly yellowish if brewed in the typical way . You can either do a very brief , several second infusion at near-boiling , or a longer infusion at around 80 celsius . I like it both ways . Gyokuro , if you can afford it , is extraordinarily green , but is unlikely to be served at a restaurant without an additional charge ( it 's essentially the same leaves used to make matcha , except rolled instead of being milled ) .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
Because onions contain a lot of flavour compounds that we like , and which are synergistic with meats .
Well , you 're definitely right . Onions cooked at a high temperature act differently than ones cooked at a low temperature , per " the bible " aka On Food and Cooking . However , it does n't go in to much of an explanation as to why . Probably the most relevant aspects of what is in there are : When onions and their relatives are heated , the various sulfur compounds react with each other and with other substances to produce a range of characteristic flavor molecules . The cooking method , temperature and medium strongly affect the flavor balance . Baking , drying , and microwaving tend to generate trisulfides , the characteristic notes of overcooked cabbage . Cooking at high temperatures in fat produces more volatiles and a stronger flavor than do other techniques . <URL> Since a low temperature produces less volatiles , I assume that the natural sugars of the onion shine through instead . It 's probably also important to understand where the oniony flavor comes from . The spice , as you describe it , is the onions natural defense mechanism . However , it does n't exist defacto in the onion , but is rather the result of a chemical reaction . The onion stores very reactive sulfur in the cell fluid , and a seperate trigger mechanism in a storage vacuole . When you cut / crush / cook / peel the onion , you break the vacuole and the enzyme and sulfur cause a chemical reaction giving off the spice . <URL> &amp; <URL> )
This question is a little vague , but probably your temperature probe is lying to you , or you 're not accounting for resting your meat . I would suggest a legit thermometer rather than one that gives you hints about the meat -- you 'll have more control over the final product . Temperature Guide : Medium Rare Beef has an internal temp of 145F / 60 Celsius Medium Beef has an internal temp of 160F / 70 Celsius Well Done ( ruined ) has a temp of 170F / 75 Celsius Remember that on resting your beef will rise roughly 10F / 12C in the middle as the heat distributes . So , if you pull the beef out at 160F / 70C , it will be well done by the time you eat it . If you want Medium Rare , pull it out at 135F / 55C .
<URL> , but even long after that , they 're still safe to consume . They just might change colour or flavour . If your tea has an expiration date then it 's just for best quality , not safety . I 've personally found tea bags sitting at the back of the pantry that were more than 3 years old , the packaging had even started to fade , and the tea was still fine . I just had to steep it for a little longer .
Could be an unfinished roux ( the butter , flour mixture ) . But most likely it 's because the cheese was heated too quickly or too much , causing the protein to clump up . Suggestions : Melt with less heat Use a double boiler ( to reduce hot spots within the pan ) Toss the shredded cheddar with cornstarch first ( starch helps reduce clumping ) Add cheese in smaller batches ( easier to maintain correct heat level and stir cheese in )
As Michael mentioned , a shaken vinaigrette is only going to stay together primarily while you 're shaking it . If it 's been staying together long consider yourself lucky all the other times ... this time was what should be " normal " . The more particulate such as herbs , mustard , spices , etc. that you have in a vinaigrette the quicker it will emulsify and the longer it will stay emulsified . The particles of spice and herbs act as physical barriers that help to interrupt the droplets of oil so that they are n't able to coalesce and come together as they can when you have just oil and vinegar/acid . When doing vinaigrettes by hand using a whisk , start with your acid and add the salt along with anything else , leaving the oil last . Adding salt to the acid component will help it to better dissolve so you get a truer reading on the flavor . When it 's added last as it 's usually written in most recipes : " season to taste with salt and pepper " , the salt usually has n't dissolved by the time you taste it and you 're much more likely to add too much , resulting in a dressing that 's a bit saltier than you might like . The manner in which you drizzle the oil and manner in which you whisk it when doing by hand , are also important factors . When whisking vinagirettes by hand , drizzle the oil form a higher level so that as it hits the bowl you have a finer stream that 's easier to emulsify . Also , use a back and forth " zig-zag " motion rather than a circular whisking motion . The " zig-zag " motion will allow the wires of the whisk to better break up the oil into droplets and emulsify them with the acid . Using a circular motion creates a vortex in the center of the acid where the oil tends to pool , resulting in an oily vinaigrette . The great part of using an immersion blender ( aka stick or wand blender ) is that EVERYTHING can go in at once . Use a container that 's deeper than it is wide ( such as 2 cup liquid measure ) so that there 's plenty of depth for the liquid . Garlic , shallots and herbs can even go in whole . The immersion blender will blend up your garlic , etc. and emulsify the oil with the vinegar . An immersion blender or a standard blender provide you with a the most stable vinaigrette .
While I have n't heard of it happening for the specific ingredients you list , yes , the blender can make stuff really bitter . There are two ways this can happen . First , a chemical reaction . A blender really churns the stuff through , driving lots of air bubbles into the mixture with some force . It also causes friction heat , especially professional grade blenders like vitamix . The heat , force and large reaction surface can cause the oxygen in the air to enter a reaction with the ingredients which does n't happen when using a milder method for cutting up . Olive oil is a known culprit here , it usually turns bitter when blended , but it can happen with other stuff too . Besides oxygen , a chemical reaction can also happen between two ingredients coming from two different vegetables , which would not have been mixed well enough in the knife scenario to produce noticeable amounts of reaction product . The second possibility is releasing stuff which would have stayed " packed " without the blender . A knife will only damage the plant cells at the cut surfaces , and a blunt knife , if used with a somewhat inefficient technique , might even break very ripe vegetables along the cell walls instead of cutting through the cells . If there are mini-droplets of something bitter within the plant cells , it is possible that the blender ( which really cuts cells into pieces ) released these things . On a more macro level , it is also possible that we are not talking mini-droplets , but just plant parts which did n't get cut with the knife . Stray pepper seeds come in mind : you probably did n't cut any with the knife , they tend to be pushed by a knife instead of cut when you are cutting the pepper . The blender pulverizes everything that hits the blades , including these seeds . I can not know which of these is the most probable source , or which plant contained the bitter matter exposed/created by the blender . But the different methods of mincing vegetables are not equivalent , and can have very noticeable effects on taste and texture beyond the obvious chunk size . The bitterness you encountered is only one example . In general , use the method specified in a recipe . If you are not working from a written recipe , try out a few and see which works best .
You need to make sure you use the right measurements when translating recipes from the US to the UK as the UK uses imperial measurements which are different from US measurements . There are also differences in cream fat content and egg sizes . Teaspoons and tablespoons are the same , so do n't worry about them . First , pint measurements , as the UK does n't use cup measurements . The UK pint is 20 % bigger than the US pint , so if you are using UK pints to measure you may be getting ratios wrong . Use Milliliters instead when translating . 1 US Cup is 237ml ( I round up to 240 ) . If you use UK pints as a measure instead of US you wo n't have enough baking powder in the ratio . In fact , I find UK baking powder and bicarb a bit weaker than US powders , so I increase those measurements a bit anyway . What works for me is the first time I make a US recipe in the UK I weigh the dry ingredients and use weights every time I make the recipe after that , I can fine-tune it that way . US light cream is between 10-30 % butter fat , and heavy cream is about 36-40 % . UK single cream is between 10-30 % fat , whipping cream is about 36 % , and double cream is 50 % fat . So if you are right that US heavy cream is UK whipping cream , but mixing 2 parts UK double and 1 part single works just as well as many places do n't stock whipping cream . I doubt that your results come from the cream you are using though , the fat contents are n't that different . One thing that could be different is the flour you use . US and UK flours are n't completely the same . For my biscuits in the UK I buy 00 or purpose milled pastry flour , which is finer and better for pastry than the bog standard stuff . If you ca n't find it pick the flour with the lowest protein content you can find . Hope this helps , let the forum know your results if you can .
My best guess is that your stock is very weak . Two gallons of water to just the bones from one turkey will not be a strong stock . It may well well have gelatin in it , but very thin . I make stock for a single turkey with the wing tips ( not the ' drumstick ' part ) , the back , the neck -- everything but the breast and leg/thighs in with about 1 gallon of water to start , which reduces to several quarts over the course of three-four hours . This produces a very shaky jelly -- much thinner than the one in a jar of Smuckers for example .
end question
start question
How do I change cake recipes for cupcakes ?
I 've not yet found a cake recipe which I could not use for cupcakes instead . I always change the baking time and only the baking time . I rotate the tray of cuppies after about 7 minutes , and after another 7 minutes or so I use the " clean toothpick " method to see when they are done . It does vary greatly , but from most cake recipes , I expect to get 18-24 regular cupcakes , about 40 mini-cupcakes , or 9-12 large ( " Texas " ) cupcakes .
The general rule of thumb with cakes and quick breads is that within certain limits : The larger the cake the lower the temperature The smaller the cake , the higher the temperature The reason is that you want to get nice crust formation and browning in the time in takes the muffin or cupcake to cook through . However , mini-muffins or cupcakes have so little mass that they will bake through quite quickly , and may be easy to over bake at higher temperatures . This article at <URL> , in regards to converting standard cupcakes to mini-cupcakes recommends : While most cupcakes take about 15-20 minutes to bake , most mini cupcakes take from 9-14 minutes or so to reach donenss . Check your minis at 9 or 10 minutes with a toothpick and bake longer as needed . The only thing you really need to look out for is the fact that it is easy to overbake these miniature cakes , so keep a close eye on them while they 're baking and check them at very short intervals when they 're close to being done . This matches my experience for full sized muffins and cupcakes : full sized muffins should bake in about 18-22 minutes -- if they take longer , raise the oven temperature on the next batch slightly . They do not suggest changing the temperature for minis . The tips at <URL> concur : If recipes do n't specify mini baking times , note that minis will take more than half of the baking time recommended for standard size cupcakes . My survey of a number of mini-cupcake recipes shows the general consensus is about 10 minutes , or half the time of a regular cupcake . Remember , however , the smaller the cake , the more little factors like your actual oven temperature , how much batter you put in the tin ( and how consistently you fill each cup ) , the moisture level of your batter , and so on affect the outcome . All of my experience is with standard sized cupcakes and muffins , or muffin tops . If I had a mini , pan , I would determine the best baking time by : Doing a half-tray , and checking it when they start to smell done ( if you are an experienced baker , you will know what this means ) , or at about 8 minutes . Continue checking every minute or so , until you find they are done with the toothpick test . Bake a second half-tray to that time without all of the door opening , to confirm your findings . Adjust as necessary , and you will then know the best time for your oven and that particular recipe -- assuming you fill the tins consistently . ( I use a food disher -- like an ice cream scoop -- for this purpose . ) Note : the purpose of the half tray is to have less cakes with a less than perfect bake . Once you dial in the ideal baking time , go for full trays for less work . I also suggest not doing multiple trays at the same time , as they will change the way the air circulates in the oven , and mask the radiant heat from each other . This makes for less consistent results .
Because of the dairy products , you should n't leave it un-chilled for more than 4 hours . It 's always best to cover your food to prevent dust ( or cat fur , for example ) from covering it . Unless the frosting is really wet and gooey ( which might run into the cake ) , it 's OK to frost now .
I do n't know about weather , but non-factory produced milk changes with the season because of the feed , which <URL> . Over the winter , the cows are fed hay or corn , while over the summer , they 're pastured , so get fresh grass . In the Netherlands , there are designations such as ' <URL> ' ( literally , ' grass chesse ' ) , which is made from the milk when the cows are first released to pasture in the spring . I know there is a designation for winter vs. summer cheese as well , but it 's not coming back to me .
First , finely chop the onions . This makes them smaller , faster-cooking , and less of a textural presence in the dish . Do it by cutting straight through the poles of the onion , resulting in two halves . Then chop off the knobs and peel off the outer layer . Run the knife 8 or 9 times along the vertical ( from pole to pole ) , but do n't sever one end completely . Cut finely across these verticals to make a fine dice . Run the knife over the pile a few times if your cut is n't small enough . Second , cook the onions . The purpose of sweating is to draw moisture out , concentrating the flavor and enhancing conversion from starch to sugar . Heating the onions releases their aroma and reduces the chemical bitterness they exhibit when raw . Heat up some oil in a pan to medium-low heat . Add the onions . Add salt . I would n't cover the pan , since the lid will prevent steam from escaping . Stir/shake to prevent sticking or burning . The onions will get soft and then translucent . ( Eventually , if you kept going they would get limp and browned ; this is referred to as caramelized and considered a different thing than sweated , so although it 's just further along the same spectrum , you should n't go that far for this recipe ) . That 's how I 'd do it and why . I do n't know if it 's a textbook answer .
These figures are probably made with <URL> . I think the figures are handshaped . There are <URL> . You can even look for <URL> . Basically you only need a rolling pin , a knife and tweezers . Cans , forks , any food-safe utensil that has an interesting pattern are useful . Of course there are special molds for fondant but I do n't think that you need them unless you want to make fancy things like <URL> . You can buy molds online but also in some larger hardware stores , supermarktes , or gift shops . It depends on where you are located . Fondant is quite matt . <URL> you can hold the fondant over steam or apply shortening , egg whites , corn syrup , or alcohol on the surface
Very easy . All you want to do is to remove the water through heating . As you are not going to can it , you do n't have to sterilize it afterwards . The only concern when evaporating milk is to not end with a layer of scorched milk solids on the bottom . First , start with homogenized milk ( you do n't want to risk undissolved fat swimming on top of it ) . If you want the pure milk flavor , heat it to 70 ° C and wait until you are left with half the initial volume . This takes several hours , depending on the quantity of the milk . My great-grandma usually did it overnight . If you do n't mind a " scorched " taste , you can do it much quicker . Take a very big pot . It should be at least 6-7 times higher than the milk depth , because the boiling milk will foam up a lot . The width is up to you , but the wider the pot , the quicker it will go . Bring the milk to a vigorous boil . Use a setting which is just hot enough to sustain boiling , too much heat will increase the scorching . Stir all the time . You need maybe 10 minutes of stirring , again depending on quantity of the milk and pot width . You are aiming for the same rate of evaporation - you should be left with half the original volume , or somewhat less . You do n't have to add sugar to evaporated milk , the sweet taste is caused by the heating . Especially the boiling-evaporated milk is quite sweet , because you get some caramelization .
I 've always done it with my hands . Just do n't let it soak too long , it will still be in one piece and will be generally easy to handle .
A quick search seems to suggest it 's a liquid emulsifier . It 's not the most natural of products : a couple of E-numbers and propylenes in there . <URL> Click across to Cake Gel Improvers .
Dust the fruit with a little flour before adding to the cake . It will act like a glue and prevent the fruit from sinking .
Sort of . Nut flours are the base of many " flourless " cakes and torts . This one from <URL> is typical , and uses almond flour , which is more common than walnut . <URL> that specifically uses walnut . Note that these are not examples of using nut flours as a substitution for flour , they are recipes developed for nut flours . Both of those recipes start with whole nuts that are ground in a food processor or spice grinder . Wheat flour behaves very differently , if you want to bake a cake using nut flour in combination with or instead of wheat flour , search for recipes that call for nut flour . Trying to work out an actual substitution would be fraught with peril . Nuts are full of fat and non-gluten protein , wheat flour has starch and gluten forming protein ( although a high gluten level is not usually desirable in cakes , that 's why cake flour is lower in protein than AP , so that it creates less gluten ) . Now I see from the edit to the question that the zucchini/chocolate cake that led to the qustion is actually a kind of cheesecake . Cheesecakes generally do n't contain flour , in the case of your recipe the nuts are actually replacing a portion of the cream cheese . In other cheesecakes you might see nuts in the crust or garnish , but I 've never seen flour in the filling .
I 've never heard of any two things which are safe to eat separately , but poisonous when combined . When you consider everything gets mixed in the stomach anyway , I find it unlikely to ever find things like that . Daniel 's question about your food safety knowledge is an important one . Make sure to use separate tools for raw meats , clean your tools , cook to appropriate temperatures , and not leave food out either thawing or cooling . I would n't feel bad if - everyone - took a food safety class at least once in their life . I mean , it 's typically a few hour workshop . In the long run , I would encourage you to aim for a diverse diet . Make sure to include starches , green and root vegetables , and other oddities . The underlying attitude of " I 'll eat whatever is quickest to throw in a pot " can lead to frequently finding the same thing " quick to throw in a pot " and a less healthy diet .
Buttercream is pretty simple , start with room temperature butter , beat it until it 's white , slowly add icing sugar , add small amounts of milk as needed to keep the consistency right . For each 1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick ) of butter , use about 1 1/2 cups of icing sugar ( sifted ) and 3 Tbsp of milk . You can do it in a mixer , a food processor , or just use a bowl and a whisk . I used a whisk a few days ago when I realized my large stand mixer is overkill for the small amount of icing I wanted and I found that microwaving the icing for about 10 seconds helped me stir in the sugar when it was getting too thick .
Removing things from the oven halfway through is not very friendly to baked goods . In general , they 'll collapse as they cool off since the structure is n't cooked and set , and the leavening ( baking soda/powder in these cases ) will be spent , so there 's no way to get what you originally wanted . It might be something like what 'd happen if you forgot the leavening in the first place . In general : if there 's only 5-15 minutes left , just leave it in , and the heat retained by the oven will take care of things . If it 's barely started - just beginning to get warm , not bubbling/rising much - probably best to take it out and wait to bake later , especially if it 's something that can survive waiting at room temperature . Anything else , leave it in and hope the power comes back ; it 's going to be ruined if you take it out and ruined if the power does n't come back on so you might as well go for it . So for example , cookies could probably survive this by leaving them in . They do n't have very long baking times - somewhere in the 5-15 minute range . Your oven wo n't cool off all that much in that time without power . So if you leave them in for a little bit longer than the original baking time , they 'll probably be fine . If your oven has a window , look in with a flashlight to check on them - you do n't want to open it to check them . A cake is iffier . If it 's 15 minutes into a 45 minute baking time , you may just be out of luck . I think I 'd still leave it in , hoping that the power comes back within 5-10 minutes , in which case it 'd probably make it . As I mentioned earlier , if you lose power early and for long enough , the cake will have spent its leavening and collapsed . You could finish baking it , but it 'll still be collapsed - it probably wo n't have a terribly palatable texture ( definitely dense , maybe chewy ) . The only time this has actually happened to me was with some cornbread muffins , around 2/3 of the way through their baking time , and the oven did n't have a window . I wildly guessed how much extra time to add , pulled them out then , and they were great . So there is hope !
The theory is that washing the chicken ( or any fowl ) removes all of the contaminates from the surface and cavity of the bird ( ie salmonella , etc. ) . People will be in one of two camps - 1 . those that have been told to do all of their lives , so they do it , and 2 . those who do n't because it is really not necessary . You cook your birds to a certain temperature internally for a reason , that is to kill all of that stuff . Really , the truth of the matter is that there are far higher risks in washing the bird and spreading all of those juices all over your sink ( thus contaminating the sink and possibly some work surfaces ) . There is no increase in flavour , there is no practical reason to bother . Professionally , it is not done . However , having said that , the one time I do rinse and pat dry is when I am applying a rub . It ensures that the chicken is dry and I can effectively rub , instead of the rub turning to a paste .
I think the issue here is long term storage . If you are only going to keep the food for weeks to a couple of months , I think your home dehydrated products should be perfectly acceptable . Depending on your application -- and I make no value judgements here -- if you need to store the food for considerably longer for whatever reason , then you want to be sure nearly all of the water has been removed , and commercially freeze-dried products are going to be more reliable . Also , according to <URL> : Freeze-dried products can be rehydrated [ sic ] ( reconstituted ) much more quickly and easily because the process leaves microscopic pores . The pores are created by the ice crystals that sublimate , leaving gaps or pores in their place . For another perspective , the vendor <URL> says : When comparing freeze dried foods to dehydrated foods , there are advantages to both . Some advantages of freeze dried foods are that they are light in weight and reconstitute quickly and will have the appearance of fresh foods when reconstituted . A disadvantage to freeze dried foods is that they will take up more space for storage because they are lighter and more space is needed to store the same amount ( in weight ) as dehydrated foods . Advantages to dehydrated foods are less space is needed to store a large amount of food and it is economical to purchase . Freeze dried foods can be a great deal more expensive than dehydrated foods . So in answer to the ongoing question of whether freeze dried foods or dehydrated foods are better -- only the consumer can determine which is best depending on his or her own personal needs and preferences . However , they are addressing commercially dehydrated or freeze-dried products , not home prepared products . Your home dehydrated foods will probably retain more moisture and have less even quality control than commercial processes . For this reason , they may not be as shelf stable . For most uses , though , especially if you are making " meals in a jar " for convenience or short term emergency preparedness , not long term ( years ) of storage , your home dehydrated fruits and vegetables should be just fine .
If you are speaking of a salmon filet , you must remove the pin bones one by one . The easiest way to do it is with tweezers or needle nosed pliers . This <URL> demonstrates the technique : Run the back of your knife across the line where the bones are , from tail to head , to make them pop out more . Pull each bone , on an angle towards the head of the fish
Fruit relishes ( including salsas , chutneys , and plain sauces like applesauce ) can be made without vinegar . But they almost always include some extra acid - if not vinegar , then usually citrus juice . The acidity balances the sweetness of the fruit , and it preserves the color . So you can make a fruit relish , substitute lemon or lime juice for the vinegar , and use it . But of course , without a full pickling process , the fruit relish will only have a limited life in the refrigerator .
Citrus zest is where most citrus flavour in a sauce or baked good actually comes from because it remains in solid form , like herbs and spices . The juice adds some flavour but it turns into solution and gets spread out over a very large surface area/volume . I do n't know why you decided not to use the zest - are you using commercial orange juice ? If so , that may be part of the problem too - processed juices are not going to be as flavourful as homemade , in part because of the mechanical separation of pulp ( even if it is subsequently re-incorporated to make a juice " with pulp " ) . Orange juice is effectively your water in this recipe so doubling it means you need to double everything else . In other words you 'll have exactly the same ratios and therefore exactly the same taste . If it came out too dry then that means you either ( a ) baked too long , ( b ) overworked the batter , ( c ) <URL> or ( d ) <URL> . Nothing to do with the OJ content . If you really want to add more orange flavour beyond what the original recipe would give you , use <URL> , it 's a highly concentrated orange flavour and is usually derived from ( surprise ! ) the zest , or made to taste like one . But I would suggest to try following the recipe correctly before doing this .
My bread machine recipe books come with conversion instructions to make the bread traditionally . Here is a link to a site that will do the same : <URL> Best of luck with your bread making !
end question
start question
How can I avoid my knife from " dragging " across my unbaked bread when making slashes to let steam escape while baking ?
Professional bakers use straight razors . Chances are they are sharper than your knife , and easier to keep that way ( or cheaper to replace , at least ) . Also : wet the blade before making slashes . This helps lubricate the blade as it cuts , and keeps the cut bread from sticking .
Spanish hot chocolate and Italian cioccolata fiorentina both use cornstarch as a thickening agent . Both are used more for dipping or sipping ( churros in the former case ) , however you could easily just use less cornstarch to make it more ' drinkable ' . Try a teaspoon of cornstarch , mixed with a little cold water , added to the milk when you boil it . As Kate Gregory suggests , you could also use full-fat milk , or loads of shaved chocolate .
You could put them in a pan of boiling water for 3 or 4 minutes ( not so to they 're cooked through ) before putting them in the oven . The potato on the outside of the wedges will soften and cook a little bit which will help the outsides crisp up a little . Make sure you allow them to drain completely before you put them in the oven .
Put the bag in front of an air conditioner for a few minutes . Worked like a champ for Oreos and chips that went stale over a humid weekend in a desk drawer . This was a window unit - I arranged to blow the cold air into the bag . Was amazed with the results .
Dust the fruit with a little flour before adding to the cake . It will act like a glue and prevent the fruit from sinking .
My <URL> just happened , and I have been able to propagate it by pouring the last few teaspoons from one bottle into the next ( after drinking half of the next bottle ) . It goes pretty slow using an open bottle ( too little circulation ) but it does go . I open the bottle every day or so and swish the contents around . It takes about 1 weak to even start smelling vinegary , and circa one month to really develop . I 've been sticking with the same variety of wine and not trying to diddle the sugar content . I still have not developed a mat-like mother , but there does seem to be a culture there . I 'm on the fourth generation now .
The BBC lists strong white flour as simply flour made from hard white wheat , which tends to have a higher gluten content . By mixing all purpose flour ( German : 550 , French : 55 ) with the package recommended amount of vital wheat gluten or by using bread flour you should be able to make bread in your machine just fine . I usually use either AP flour or a mixture of AP and whole wheat ( German : 1600 , French : 150 ) , or even all whole wheat ( although with all wheat I find adding gluten is extremely helpful for getting a well-risen loaf ) . You can also buy other types of high gluten flour , either with that label or listed as bread flour . If you live in a part of the world with " 0 " and " 00 " flour , the protein content of " 00 " flour is similar to that of all purpose flour , but the grind of all purpose flour will be more coarse . " Panifiable " 00 flour has the gluten content of bread flour ( <URL> ) .
The resting period is not generally done by an absolute temperature -- you would have measured for ( near ) your target temperature before before taking the piece out of the oven or off the griddle or whatever . Traditionally , it should be proportional to the size of the cut or roast . 5-10 minutes is good for a steak or individual chicken pieces , depending on their thickness Medium size roasts and smaller poultry , say 10-15 minutes Large roasts and large poultry ( like a turkey ) , up to 30 minutes . If you do want to measure by temperature for more precise results , Kenji Alt of <URL> recommends based on practical experimentation , for steaks : Ideally , no matter how well-done you 've cooked your meat , you want to allow it to cool down until the very center has reached 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) . At this stage , the muscle fibers have relaxed enough that you should have no problem with losing juices . He also reviews some of the science , and various explanations for why the resting works . Cook 's Illustrated 's <URL> performed an experiment with several roasted pork loins , cutting them with no resting , or resting of 10 , 20 , 30 , and 40 minutes . They found that even a 10 minute rest cut down on juices expressed by 60 % compared to the unrested roast . They found far less difference in the roasts that were rested for longer periods , although there was continued improvement in the juice retention . They summarize ( original emphasis ) : So what to do ? Curb your enthusiasm and let your meat rest . But not for too long . The most dramatic decrease in moisture loss for these pork loins took place during the first 10 minutes of rest . Additional time helps -- but not if that means your dinner will be cold . If you 're cooking a big roast , you can wait longer -- about 30 minutes . Thin steaks should only wait 5 to 10 minutes before you dig in . This shows that the traditional advise on resting times is actually fairly effective . Note : Thanks to <URL> for sharing this reference .
The goal is to evaporate alcohol and concentrate flavor . If adding wine to a mirepoix , or sofrito ... some sort of early stage aromatic vegetable ... reduce the wine almost until the pan goes dry , but not dry enough to cause sticking or burning . The flavor will be absorbed into the vegetable and you are good to go . If there is another instance of wine addition that you are considering , please specify .
You do n't have to use water as the liquid in your bread . Enriched breads use milk and/or eggs . We have recently had questions about breads which use orange juice . On the technical side , you have to adjust recipe a little . Pickle juice does n't have much dissolved solids , so no need to adjust for that . However , it is very salty , so you should reduce or completely leave out the salt . The acidity will help with gluten development and also with breaking down the starches in flour to make them available for chemical reactions which produce more flavour , so this is a good thing to have . However , yeast itself has some strong pH preferences . It grows best in a slightly acidic environment , but if the dough gets too basic or too sour , it will slow down or not grow at all . I think that the diluted vinegar in the pickle water wo n't oversour the dough , but it would be a good idea to make the poolish with pure water and only add pickle water for the dough itself . As for taste , I ca n't say that much without ever having tried it , but my intuition says that you will get a whiff of pickles , but not a full-blown taste . After all , bread made with orange juice does n't taste like biting into an orange . I think you will notice the difference , but you will still have to add pickles to your sandwiches for taste ( and they are needed for the crunch anyway ) . As for horrible , it depends entirely on personal taste . I am not a fan of pickles or soured breads , and would n't eat it . There are people who drink the pickle water from the jar ; I think they will enjoy the pickle-smelling bread too . If you are a pickle fan , I think it is worth a try , if it does n't work , you only throw out under a dollar 's worth of ingredients .
When the butter cools in the fridge ... It 's going to thicken up . I ca n't see a way around this ? When you heat it up again , it should return to consistency ...
The main issue you will face is the extra mixing allows for additional gluten development . In some breads , this could create a risk of over-kneading , which could make the dough less workable , more prone to tearing , and more difficult to get the proper rise . Challah is a basic egg enriched bread , so other than the eggs themselves ( which are fairly effective at helping prevent over-kneading ) you do n't have a great deal of protection . The worst case scenario is that your bread will be a little flat and crumbly ; the best case is that you are still well within the tolerance window and it will be just fine . Edit : I will leave this for reference , but I was thinking of brioche : in a very sweet , fatty bread like brioche , this risk is minimized . The fat and sugars in the dough act as barriers preventing the glutin-precursors from interacting as frequently or as easily , making it much , much more difficult to over knead . The main reasons for the traditional order of dough assembly are : As you no doubt realize , it is much easier to incorporate the liquids evenly into loose flour , rather than a partially formed dough The yeast acts on the ingredients present , so sometimes ingredients which inhibit yeast growth are held back until after a fermentation phase You want time for all of the flour to be fully hydrated -- normally , in yeast raised doughs , this is hardly an issue .
I use a similar recipe , unfortunately I do n't remember the original source , but I 've changed over time anyway . Things I do n't use that you have in your recipe : Sugar Jack Daniels Cider Vinegar Worcestershire sauce mustard Things I do use : Lots of fresh ground spices . Typically 4 or 5 cloves , teaspoon of cumin seeds , tablespoon of fennel seeds , black pepper and salt . Fresh herbs , including Rosemary , Bay and thyme Balsamic vinegar - about half a bottle of inexpensive stuff Orange zest - zest of one whole orange Smoked Paprika - about 4 heaped teaspoons Olive oil - about 4 tablespoons grind-up the spices and place in the marinade tray . medium fine chop the fresh herbs ( leave the fresh bay leaves whole ) with the orange zest and a whole bulb of garlic , then add to the spice mixture . To that add juice from an orange , the Balsamic , followed by the ketchup and olive oil . Mix well . Score the meat well and add to the marinade tray . rub the marinade mixture into all the scores so that the meat is well penetrated . Cover the tray with foil and cook in an oven for about an hour ( depends on the meat and the amount ) once it 's out of the oven it can be placed on the barby .
Cumin is most often used ground , yes . You can , if you prefer -- and as in common in Indian and other cuisines -- toast it first until it is fragrant ( a minute or two in a dry skillet at medium heat ) . Then , grind it in a spice grinder or mortar and pestle .
What you need is to deflect the heat from the top of your pie . If you have two racks in your oven , and can position them so that the pie is in the middle with a rack above it , place a piece of aluminum foil directly above the pie . Another option would be to set a piece of foil on top of the pie after it has partially baked . Either way will protect the top from direct heat , allowing the ambient heat to penetrate and bake the whole pie .
Let the dough rest in the bowl for a while after mixing . Time will not only improve the flavor ( insert autolyse proselytism here ) but will also give the flour time to hydrate , making the dough somewhat easier to handle . Dough will become less sticky as you work it -- witness the way dough kneaded in a mixer or food processor initially sticks to the sides but eventually forms a ball and leaves the bowl clean . So , one option is to work it a bit with a mixer first , or just with a wooden spoon in the bowl . Anil 's suggestion to oil your hands is a good one . If the kind of dough you 're making allows it , add some oil or butter to the dough during mixing , too . Flour helps , of course . Instead of trying to coat your hands in flour , throw a bit on the kneading surface and on the top of the dough . For very sticky dough , a <URL> can help you scrape the dough off the surface and fold it over onto itself until it becomes easier to handle . This is easiest if you 're working on a hard , smooth kneading surface like marble .
I wo n't offer any suggestions on what type of herbs you should use in your recipes - that is entirely up to you and what you like . Experiment with different flavors and combinations from a basic base , or there are plenty of recipes freely available on the <URL> for savory breads . The technical answer is , generally dried herbs are preferable when baking because they contribute no moisture to the recipe , and because they generally have lots of time to infuse their flavor into the dough . Fresh herbs are nice ( and it sounds like you have plenty of them available ) but you need to <URL> : Dried herbs have a more concentrated flavor , so you will need to need to use a larger quantity of fresh herbs when substituting them for dried in recipes . The most common rule of thumb seems to be about 3 times the amount of fresh herbs for dried , maybe a bit lower if you 've got really nice and fresh herbs with intense flavor . Certain leafy herbs ( basil , mint ) will retain and contribute some moisture . It 's doubtful that you 'll be using enough in any recipe to throw off its water balance , but beware of using large amounts . if you want a strong flavor for these herbs it 's best to use dried . Also , these items can get really bitter when bruised or otherwise mistreated , and that bitterness will wind up in your bread . Not so tasty . Particular herb flavors will stand up very well to baking , and others will not . I find that some savory flavors like thyme and oregano mellow out when baked but still retain their character . Rosemary will work well in baked goods but has a very intense flavor , so you 'll want to use a bit less than other herbs . Other delicate flavors like mint do n't do well when baked , both because of the bruising problem noted above and because they 're so delicate . Also note that it 's pretty easy , if a little time-intensive , to <URL> , which is a great idea for extended storage .
The mixture should lighten in both color and texture , and it should be ' fluffy ' . It should also increase in volume . The point of creaming is to incorporate the sugar with the fat , while at the same time adding air to the mixture . The air bubbles introduced during creaming expand during cooking , making the cookies rise and giving a lighter texture . Cookies baked with under-creamed butter would therefore remain fairly flat and dense .
People choose to eat vegetarian diets for a number of reasons . Not only might the flavor offend your guest , but it may cause them to be physically ill . You can substitute vegetable stock or broth for the meat products you are accustomed to using . Mushrooms lend a meaty flavor to dishes they are used in and could potentially be used to replace your meat . I would suggest cooking them separately first to draw out the moisture , then adding them to the beans near the end of the cooking process so they soak up some of the flavors and have a chance to marry . Remember mushrooms are little culinary sponges . They will take flavors and run with them , adding their own earthy notes in the process . Search for vegetarian rice and beans dishes to get an idea of the possibilities here . From an etiquette standpoint , you may want to avoid the temptation to apologize to your other guests for having to make a veggie substitution as that would be a quick ticket towards alienating your vegetarian pal . I only mention that because some people do n't think about things like that and I have a few friends who are on restrictive diets . They are sometimes embarrassed when people go out of their way to make menu changes for them . Another alternative altogether is to find a way to prepare two versions of the dish . Meaning , you could use meat as you are accustomed to but leave a portion of the food vegetarian . When it 's practical I like this option a lot . It just comes with the downside of increased cleanup and stovetop logistics issues .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
end question
start question
A simple way to make crushed ice ?
I have not tried <URL> myself , but it sounds reasonable . It involves filling a clean milk carton or juice container with water , freezing it and then bashing it against a wall to crush the ice . I guess the container has to be quite sturdy to take the beating without breaking . Could be worth a try .
If you add coriander , it should be because you agree with Mr. Weeks 's assertion that it has a particular affinity with blueberry . Freshly ground coriander has a vibrant citrusy aroma , and ( though I have n't tried it ) , I can see how it would go well in blueberry ice cream . I 've found that sometimes a single flavor can be a little monotonous , and the coriander can bring some fun to the party . Give it a shot and see what you think .
I enjoy the fruity herbal teas as iced tea . I brew a cup and then pour it in a cup of ice . It is a sugar-free cool drink that tastes and smells great .
Yes , for all practical intents and purposes , for flax eggs to congeal they need to be milled or ground to a powder and slurried with water , then introduced to the dish . After stirring and then letting set you should have a nice gloopy mess if you let it stand for a few minutes . I typically use a 1 part milled seed to 2.5 parts water , but typically ranges go from 2-3 parts water . You can use a mortar and pestle or coffee grinder for fast , thorough results . The exception to this is that <URL> ( this link will teach you how to use them to make hair gel , if you 're so inclined ) . This will cause the soluble fiber ( the congealing agent ) to dissolve , leaving behind the seed husks . Milled flax seeds do n't seem to be any less effective and no more distracting in terms of taste so , unless you 're doing up your hair , I just do n't see the payoff on boiling them . Another exceptional means to an exception to this is letting the seeds soak for approximately 6-8 hours . As I recall the person who tried this said it did n't congeal much , and was less sticky than a milled flax egg .
Bleach is your best bet . Scrub it with a long-handled scrub brush and either liquid bleach or Ajax and water . Let it soak a bit before rinsing it out . Since it 's stainless steel , the bleach wo n't do it any harm and will kill off any organics growing on it . In my experience , the pink stuff is a mold , not flouride .
First , there is no difference between seasoning and reseasoning , unless you need to do some extra work to remove rust ( see instructions below ) . In fact , for new cast iron , scouring is also usually a good idea since you need to get off whatever wax or protective oil the manufacturer or seller may have put onto the cookware . ( They do n't use cooking oil for that sort of thing , believe me . ) If you need to remove rust : use a mixture of salt and oil and scrub that hard into the rust , then rinse thoroughly in hot water . Use steel wool if necessary . Next , scour the pan completely under hot water . Do this for several minutes or until the water runs clean . I 've heard varying things about whether soap or an SOS pad is OK at this step . My personal opinion is that it 's OK , but you must wash the soap completely off before continuing with the seasoning so that your seasoning does n't taste like soap ! Coat the cookware with grease or oil . ( I do this with the whole pan , not just the cooking surface , to reduce the possibility of external rust . ) Crisco , vegetable oil , and lard all work well . Do n't pick something with a low smoking point , or too strong a flavor . Make sure it 's a light coating ... you should n't have pools of oil anywhere on your cookware . Bake your skillet in a 250-350 ° F oven for an hour . If you used liquid oil , you may want to put the cookware in upside down so excess oil drips off . But it 's good to put a cookie sheet or something underneath the cookware to catch the drips if you do ! Let the cookware cool , and wipe off any excess oil . For best results , do this two or three times , though a skillet can be satisfactory after a single treatment . To keep the seasoning happy : Do n't let the cast iron sit too long without using it ( you may notice a rancid smell or flavor if the seasoning turns bad ; I 'm not sure at what point this happens , but it 's happened to me before ) . Do n't cook anything acidic ( e.g. tomatoes ) during the first or second use of your pan . Do n't use dishwashing liquid or soap on the pan ( hot water and scrubbing only ) . After cleaning the pan after each use , wipe it lightly with another bit of oil , using simple vegetable oil . Another trick sometimes used to season Chinese woks : rub Chinese chives over the surface of the cookware when the oil is being heated ( this works best on a stovetop , not in the oven ) . The juice of the chive has sulfur compounds that help remove remaining flavor from the previous coating of the cookware . Be aware that this technique really kicks up a lot of steam and smoke . I 've never tried it on cast iron skillets , but I 'd be curious if anyone out there has .
I do n't usually hull strawberries , but when I do I use a straw . The idea is that you push the straw up through the tip of the strawberry and it comes out at the stem . For pictures you can see <URL> are just Google " hull strawberries with a straw "
What about using mochi , an Asian pounded rice paste ? It 's a similar -- though not identical -- texture , it 's available in sweet and savory forms , and it 's held together by the starch in rice rather than anything gelatin , so it 's vegetarian . You can get plain unflavored mochi at many Asian food stores ; it may take some looking , as it 's more often sold sweet and filled with bean paste in the US . I 've had it in savory Korean dishes and I believe it 's used in savory Korean dishes as well .
You could use sugar substitutes but you should take care to use one that is heat stable . Sugar Substitute with Stevia as main ingredient can be used but you need to inquire to what ratios you would need to use your specific brand with . Acesulfame Potassium is heat stable but is 200 times sweeter than regular sugar . The general rule of thumb I was taught is 1 gram per quarter cup of sugar . Sucralose : Granulated sucralose can be used as an equal-volume substitute for sugar . ( Raw sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sugar , so you 'd use less , but the granulated form contains fillers to bring it up to the normal volume . ) There may be some considerations in making ice cream with this as when using this for baking the baking process is accelerated to a certain degree . Be careful with this one . Saccharin and Aspartame should be avoided because they are heat sensitive . Other more natural sugar substitutes include honey , fruit juice concentrates and refined fructose .
The truth is , there really is no good way to reheat such sandwiches . The bread will have gotten soggy while the sandwich was in the refrigerator , and the densest part ( which requires the most energy to get hot ) is on the inside . The option which is probably the least poor is to use the microwave , as more of the energy will be transmitted to the filling directly than with other heating methods . This is still likely to leave the bread kind of mushy and rubbery . Your best option is to only buy the size of sandwich you want to eat , or to split one with someone . Note that you mentioned store bought subs . If the sandwiches are homemade , there is a good answer : do n't assemble them until you want to eat them . You can then toast the bread , and heat the filling separately , and then combine them , and thus have a very fine sandwich .
I would recommend staying away from a grater and either using a knife or a chocolate chipper ( http://www.amazon.com/Lee-43198-Chocolate-Chipper/dp/B00005NUVX ) . The less friction and the more you keep your hands off it ( because your hand will melt it as you have discovered ) the better .
Yes , you can . In professional kitchens , virtually all ovens are convection , and they work just fine . You may need to reduce the heat about 25 degrees .
The vast majority of recipes I find call for marshmallows to be added at the last second , and cooked only long enough for them to melt . Usually then a heavy frosting is added to top the whole thing , giving the illusion of marshmallow inside the brownie . Find an example <URL> . I 've also seen really " wet " brownies with lots of included chocolate chips and butterscotch , which contain non-disgusting looking marshmallows . I 've never personally tried these because they seem overly sweet , but they 're the only ones I 've seen that contain marshmallows that seem to retain elasticity after a normal baking period . See examples <URL> and <URL> . For my money , I 'd probably just sprinkle some marshmallows over the top of regular brownies during the last 3-4 minutes of baking . Quick , simple , not overcooked .
It 's not too much water that makes them soggy , it 's cooking them for too long in the water . Thin noodles are virtually done as soon as they break out of their dry , tablet shape . As soon as this happens , take a noodle out and test it . Remember that cooking will continue even after you drain the noodles . You should drain the noodles well in a colander . If you are planning on stir frying the noodles , you need to first wash the starch off them - run the cold water tap over them and circulate it through the noodles with your hand ( carefully , they might still be hot in the middle ) . They then need to be dried as much possible - spread them out on a board , pat with paper towel , and leave for ten minutes or so before stir frying ( preferably in an empty wok - cook the rest of the stir fry first , then empty it , cook the noodles , and re-add the meat etc. )
A roux normally is equal parts fat and flour . It should be fairly solid , not runny . However , it is an individual decision . I 've known guys who like it quite solid ( like me ) , but you have to whisk the hell out of it to get out all of the lumps . Normally , if I am making a sauce or soup that I ca n't strain , I will make it a little slack . I also add my roux after so I can control the thickness of the sauce or soup . Normally you are not instructed to do so , but you have greater control . If you do it this way , you have to vigorously whisk while adding , or the starches will congeal together in lumps . No big deal if it you are able to strain , but ...
Thierry , Stainless steel French presses work fine . In fact , you can construct a French press out of any chemically inert material : stainless steel , class , ceramic , high-temperature plastic , enameled copper , even marble , and it will make perfectly good coffee . I myself have a collection of porcelain and stoneware presses . What material you choose is really a matter of aesthetics and how you use the press . All of that being said , my experience is that high-quality glass carafes do not break regularly unless you drop them ( which is , admittedly , an issue ) . I 'm wondering if you bought a cheaper carafe with inferior glass , like one from Ikea . I have a Bodum which is at least 8 years old . Also , for brand name presses , you can usually buy replacement carafes , since breakage ( due to dropping ) is a frequent issue . Sometimes the replacements cost as much as a whole new press , but you should at least check it out .
There are a couple of things you can do to prevent sugar crystallising . You can add some glucose syrup , or you can ' invert ' the sugar by adding some acid , namely cream of tartar . Both should be readily available , online if not at your supermarket . Cream of tartar is also useful when making meringue .
Ice cream is an emulsion and in it , you have air , fat , and ice . The smaller the ice crystals , the smoother the icecream and better chance of achieving a velvety , creamy , smooth texture . The flavor is also elevated given the smaller crystals . Put it in the freezer , and ice crystals start to grow bigger and you lose the benefits . Also , colder temperature inhibits the taste buds ability to pick up sweetness . At liquid nitro cooled temperatures , you can get an explosion of flavour as the icecream warms up and melts in your mouth and the taste buds start to pick up on sweetness . Finally , aside from a show , it 's much much faster to make icecream with LN2 than in a regular machine . Seconds versus 30-45minutes . There are hazardous issues with liquid nitrogen and handling . As a starting point , look into <URL> .
In the cowboy days , the people traveling through the western desert would carry canvas sacks which they would fill with water . The water would seep through the canvas very slowly , and wet the surface of the bag . Evaporative cooling would then keep the water cold ( at least cooler ) . You could try something similar if you are in a dry climate ( the rate of evaporation determines the cooling effect , which is limited by the relative humidity ) . Wrap the food or drink in wet cloth , and hang or set in a shady location with some wind . Keep the wrapping wet .
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
end question
start question
How should I keep the vegetables from flying off the board when I cut them ?
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
We have a convection oven and almost always use it . I ca n't remember the last time we did n't use convection . Our model automatically decreases the temperature , so if you set it for 300 , then it will heat to 275 . Not sure if that is a magic 25 degree number , but it seems to work . Almost all recipes cook time wise as they would with a non-convection oven . Our also has a single and multi-rack mode , and it circulates the air differently in that case . We have NEVER had any problems with the food drying out more with the air circulation as they say that is a common negative . I am sure the effectiveness varies oven to oven , but in our case , we always use it ( except for broiling of course ) .
A couple things : make sure you 're removing enough of the fat from the pan . Too much fat will keep the sauce thin ( and will also tend to separate out afterwards ) . Also , fat will not evaporate -- if your remaining liquid is fat , the temperature will rapidly rise , and very quickly things will burn . depending on what you 're adding , you may need to use a thickener . There is a reason three of the five mother sauces have roux . ( Hollandaise has egg , which thickens , Tomate has tomato which has lots of pectin , which also thickens , so those two do n't need it ) . A good stock or broth has plenty of gelatin , which will thicken especially upon cooling . When you add your deglazing liquid , you need to thoroughly scrape up the fond and stir it in . Keep stirring , especially towards the end when its somewhat thick . Also especially if your pan has hot spots . Turn down the temperature . This should go without saying when things are burning . Some heat helps with deglazing , but after that you do n't actually need anything more than a low simmer -- higher evaporates faster ( important , since the meat is often resting &amp; cooling ) but not burning the sauce is more important .
Replace your ladle with an ice cream scoop . You will be able to control the amount of dough for each waffle much easier . For my waffle iron and scoop I use two scoops . An additional advantage over a ladle , is that the dough releases much easier from a scoop , which reduces the probability of making a mess .
The most common reason for leakage with Cordon Bleu Chicken is that the packets are too thick , which makes it impossible to get a perfect fold ; you need to pound the breasts very thin - less than 1/2 " , maybe a little more than 1/4 " . The other " trick " is to make a small cut along the folded edge of the breast after you fold and seal the packets , which essentially makes it almost like a sandwich ; the top and bottom parts can move independently and you do n't have tension trying to pull the top piece away . Just do n't cut so deep that you cause an immediate leak ; if you 've pounded the breast to 1/3 " thickness , then your cut should be no more than about 1/8 " . If you do it this way , you should n't even need to use toothpicks ; I never do , and I have n't sprung a single leak in my last 20 or so preparations .
I used to remove the paddle before the second rising to avoid breaking the bread . Did not find any other good way of doing it .
Usually when I 've made them I just put sauce on top , not on the bottom , and just down the middle so the edges are exposed . And I make the sauce on the thick side so it is not too watery . I bake them in the oven too , and they are never too soggy , but you could just grill to minimise the sauce absorption . I 've heard that corn tortillas are more resistant to going soggy than flour ones , but could n't comment from experience .
I never worry about this . As your stock simmers , the joints , muscle and connective tissue break down and eventually they 'll sink in . Sometimes adding a bit of vinegar to your stock first helps with this . Until then , just stir the stock and move the bones around occasionally .
It will firm up a little bit during chilling , but not much . It is certainly supposed to be firm enough to keep its shape on its own when taken out . If you have baked creme caramel or cheesecake , then try to get it to a similar consistency as these . If you have n't , you may want to use a roast thermometer . The final temperature ( assuming a traditional flan without starch or flour ) should fall in the 85-90 Celsius range .
Gloves are annoying and , much like condoms , do obscure sensation and -- in the case of kitchen work -- precision with your fingers . For those reasons I avoid them wherever possible . As a lifelong nailbiter ( from when I was about 9 until I was 31 ) , it was a habit that was really hard to give up . But it has been worth it , not just professionally . I know this is n't the answer you 're looking for , but : stop biting your nails .
Italian here :) I know that the oil is a well known trick everywhere ... but Italy . The main problem about pasta is that people just tend to cook it too much . The cooking time for pasta should be between 8 and 12 minutes , above this number it will be sticky . Spaghetti is the quickest kind of pasta to get ready , so just cook it around 8-9 minutes and it wo n't stick .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
Trim your carrots , rutabaga , turnips , etc. to consistent sizes and put in a large saute pan . Add stock or water ( amount will depend on vegetables and their density along with quantitye of vegetables . Start with enough to come about 2/3 up the volume of veg . ) along with some salt , a couple tablespoons of butter and a couple tablespoons of sugar . Bring the liquid to a simmer and cover lightly with a lid or a circle of parchment paper . Simmer until vegetables are getting tender . Remove the lid and continue to simmer until liquid evaporates and sugar and butter create a nice glaze . Watch at the end to make sure the sugar does n't burn . Add any desired herbs , taste and adjust seasoning and serve .
Taste the meat and if it still seems edible to you then there is no reason to throw it out . When I make stock , I keep it on a simmer for much longer than three hours and any meat is completely tasteless by the time I 'm done . Three hours , however , is about how long you would cook meat to make a stew , so it 's quite possible that you could eat it . On the other hand , not all cuts of meat stew well and I 'm not familiar with this cut . If the meat has plenty of connective tissues ( i.e. collagen ) to gelatinise it should n't dry out too much . But the proof is in the pudding : taste it .
Since it is a custard , you should probably refrigerate it as soon as it is cool . A very sugary or acidic custard may be able to resist bacteria for a couple days ( see Bismark donuts ) , but unless the recipe was specifically developed to be stable at room temperature , then there is some risk of it going bad . If you have a fridge , there 's no reason not to use it . It may make the dough a little soggy , so you will want to find a way to store it to reduce condensation . Better yet , make just as much as you are going to eat/serve at one time , and do n't worry about this problem . <URL> <URL>
You should n't cook more than a few minutes , and should cool them as quickly as possible afterwards . Ideally , you 'll be blanching them , and here 's how : Bring a pot of water with a pinch of salt in it to a roiling boil Dump beans in , and cook for a few minutes Check that beans are fully cooked ( time will vary by variety and ripeness of beans ) Strain beans , and IMMEDIATELY transfer to an prepared ice water bath to cool as fast as possible This ensures beans are precisely cooked , but do not have a chance to over-cook , and using the ice water helps them retain color and flavor . It 's how we get deliciously crisp haricot vert ( French green beans ) at the restaurant I work for . Note that cooking times and crispness will also vary based on the variety and age at which the beans were picked .
An avocado will keep a few days in the refrigerator after it has been cut . The cut portion will turn brown/black due to oxidation , you can just cut that off , it is not harmful . From <URL> to keep the avocado from discoloring sprinkle it with lemon/lime juice or vinegar and wrap tightly in plastic wrap or place in an airtight container . From <URL> storing a cut avocado with a piece of cut onion in an airtight container will stop the oxidation . I do n't know why this is , but I suspect that it has to do with the sulfur compounds that the onion releases . This is the same sulfur that makes you cry when you chop onions , but it is also used as a preservative . The onion 's smell and taste do n't seem to transfer to the avocado , as far as I can tell . But I 'm not overly sensitive to onions , so you may want to check this out first if you are . When not to use , from WebMD if your avocado 's flesh has become very dark or the flesh has become stringy you should avoid eating it , particularly if there is any sign of mold . Avocados have a very high fat content , so they oxidize and become rancid very quickly at room temperature and will need to be thrown away .
I finally found what I 'm looking for , from the <URL> - some actual data on the subject ! They say that rinsing canned beans can reduce the amount of sodium by half , and also reduces the amount of complex sugars which humans ca n't digest ( but the bacteria in our intestines can , with uncomfortable results ! ) It appears that draining the fluid is likely to improve the flavor and texture of the resulting food by concentrating the flavor of the beans -- unless you 're following a soup recipe that specifically suggests retaining the liquid to thicken the soup . I still have n't found any information about what healthy nutrients might be lost by rinsing the beans , but the general consensus seems to be that it rinsing will do more good than harm in almost all cases .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
end question
start question
What is the Purpose of Using Onions in ( Almost ) Every Soup Recipe ?
Sauteed onions can provide both caramel flavors ( from the sugars in the onions ) and <URL> , depending on how they are sauteed . Thus onions can supply a range of " umami " flavors for soup which otherwise you need to get through roasting animal bones and other tissue ( e.g. brown veal stock ) . Of course , even beef stocks often add onion as well for extra flavor . As an extreme example of this , I often prepare a vegetarian French Onion soup using a meat-free broth made entirely from onions , onion skins , and cheese rind . Blind tasters often fail to distinguish it from a store-bought beef stock . You can get a lot of the same flavors from combinations of other browned vegetables , but onions neatly supply a perfect package of flavor compounds in one inexpensive , long-keeping root vegetable . Why use anything else ?
For protection against heat , you can stabalize the milk with starches . ( eg , a white sauce made with milk wo n't curdle , even if you boil it ) . I unfortunately do n't know how much you 'd have to add , and of course , it 'll end up affecting the texture of your soup ) . For soups , you 're likely better off making a corn starch/milk slurry before adding the milk , so you do n't have to cook it like you would flour to get rid of the raw flour taste . You may also want to consider the heat that you 're cooking the soup at -- you likely want a low simmer , not a full boil .
As a child , I used to hate the feel and taste when I conciously bit on a piece of onion ( strongest offender : medium-sized chunks , sautéed glassy but still firm ) . Sometimes that still happens . However , I use onion a lot myself now in cooking . Lots of dishes really need the kind of taste onions can supply ; even though that taste may by itself be a bit gross , it 's really useful in the mix . ( This is true for many other ingredients as well ! ) I can only speak for myself , but very likely , there are some dishes where you do n't even notice that onions are in , but they are -- and you would n't like it if they were n't ! Do use onions , just do it consciously . There are broadly three ways of preparing them that I consider effective , each suited to different cases : Disperse them throughout the dish . Either chop them really fine and saut&eacute;e ( with the right technique and a decent knife you can get the chunks down to only a few millimetres ) , or boil with other vegetables and then pur&eacute;e . You 'll get all the good taste , but nowhere too strong and without any unpleasant mouth-feel . Ideal for light/creamy sauces or soups . Caramelise them boldly . Frying changes the taste of onions a lot , it makes them much sweeter , gets rid of the pungency in exchange for a really concentrated savouriness , and almost completely tames the consistency . Browned onions play great together with strong seasonings like garlic and pepper , as flavouring for chewy mushrooms or meats . Or the opposite : keep them mostly raw ! The freshness and crunch of raw onions can also be very useful without evoking what I call the bad onion effect -- albeit in a completely different way . Thinly sliced in salads , or very quickly stir-fried in rice dishes , you keep the raw pungency in check while staying clear of the uncanny softness . Again , it 's a good idea to define the taste heading with other sharp flavours : vinegar or chilies work well . Perhaps you wo n't be able to befriend yourself with all of these preparation methods , but you should give them a try .
Whilst you 'll probably be fine using the same knife and chopping board to prepare everything that 's going in an " all in one " meal such as a stew , here 's the reasons I have for never doing so : It 's a bad habit to get into . It 's very easy to slip-up and forget that you 're not making an " all in one " meal and thus chop some lettuce on a board you 've already used for slicing raw bacon when making a salad , if most of the meals you make are " all in one " and you usually do n't have to " worry " about cross-contamination It does n't take that long . Washing your chopping board down with hot soapy water and a clean sponge/scourer takes literally a few minutes , the same can be said for a knife . If you 're pressed for time you could turn the board over and use a fresh knife . That assumes that the work surface was clean beforehand and the food being prepared on the " first " side was dry and thus wo n't have liquid run-off that 's contaminated the underside of the board It 's not worth getting wrong . If you make a mistake and get food poisoning , or worse - give someone else food poisoning , you 'll really wish you 'd done your utmost to prevent cross-contamination .
Bitters originally were supposed to have medicinal properties , which is why some still have " tonic " in their names . Now they 're just a flavoring agent , a concentrated way to enrich the cocktail and bring out more subtle flavor notes . Given how little bitters you put in most drinks , it 's unlikely they alter mouthfeel or other qualities much .
The modern way is still to sieve . I actually did this a couple of days ago . I made a sauce out of boiled onions , capiscums , chilli peppers , canned plum tomatoes , carrots , garlic , ginger and spices . This was then whizzed in a blender and sieved through a fine metal sieve to remove the pulp , seeds , large fibrous pieces that wer n't blended . It makes for a smoother sauce . The fine metal sieves are fairly cheap and easy to obtain . There are also finer sieves made from plastic or even muslin you can also use . The technical term seems to be <URL> A food mouli :
I think you 've answered your own question . It adds an elusive flavor that most people feel enhances the creamy flavors .
You want something hot and very slightly herby , without smoke . For heat , a moderate amount of cayenne is the easiest option . For the herby notes , I might go with something like marjoram or rosemary , but frankly given the cilantro and mint I probably would n't bother .
Specifically , the reason you whisk it in slowly at first is to create small drops . If you just dump the oil in fast , it will adhere to itself and make it impossible to break up into droplets dispersed in the vinegar ( or other water based liquid , such as lemon juice ) . This is the definition of an emulsion : tiny droplets of one liquid evenly dispersed in another . Once you 've got the emulsion started , you can pour in the oil a bit faster because the already suspended droplets reduce the room for a big blob of oil to form , and act sort of as " sandpaper " to break up the incoming stream as you whisk .
The rind of Brie is <URL> it 's a completely harmless fungus which gives brie its taste . You can eat it , or not , up to you : you are supposed to . If it smells very strongly of ammonia the cheese is just a bit too ripe but it wo n't do you any harm .
I would simply use whatever onions I had available ! Red onions have a milder flavour than yellow onions ( therefore red is usually preferred in salads ) and obviously different colour but the difference is still small enough to interchange with no problem . Unless , of course , you desire a particular colour in the soup or are particular about the soup having a strong or mild flavour . Leek would make it even milder and sweeter . If I 'd have to make a choice I would use yellow onions and spare the red ones for raw/decorative use .
In casseroles , pot pies and the like , condensed soup is usually added without additional water . It serves as a thickening agent and will pick up sufficient water from whatever vegetables etc. you also have in the recipe . That 's not to say you never add water along w the soup , it 's just that the desired end result is more often some sort of solid casserole-like dish than merely a souped up soup . If you 've uncooked , dry , noodles in there too , you will have to add some liquid beyond the condensed soup , so as to allow them to hydrate properly .
Soy sauce , sake or mirin and sugar are the usual ingredients in a teriyaki sauce . The rice wines in particular are vital for an authentic teriyaki flavour . So the question is somewhat moot : onions are n't usually found in teriyaki sauce anyway . The onions naturally add flavour to your marinade : if you like it , leave them in , if you do n't , take them out . The onions wo n't have any major chemical effect on the marination process . Personally I would ditch the olive oil , replace it with toasted sesame oil and add garlic and ginger for a more rounded and authentically flavoured East Asian marinade .
The primary purpose is for flavor . If it 's the expense of a large bottle for a few tablespoons here and there you should be able to buy the mini bottles ( as are served on airplanes ) from a local liquor store . If you do n't want to use or have it around due to issues with alcohol then look for other items that have as similar flavor to substitute . Sherry has a sweet nutty flavor to it and apple juice can often work suitably well . Keep in mind you 'll probably not find an exact flavor match but it can be close . A small amount of orange extract could be used in place of grand marnier . Depending on the item , you might also try flavored syrups that are used for coffee drinks . Remember that these have a lot of sugar in them so you 'll need to compensate by cutting back on sugar elsewhere in the recipe and obviously do n't use them where the sweet flavor would n't be welcome .
I found a quote from <URL> One thing you may not want to do with a press pot , especially a larger model , is use beans roasted less than 2 or 3 days before . What , am I crazy ? Nope . There 's a problem with ultra fresh beans and it is called " bloom " . When beans are only a day or two off the roast , they contain heaps of Co2 . Heaps of it , I tell you . That Co2 will translate into a massive bloom of brown suds on top of your press pot , possibly overflowing , but also making it easier for big particulate matter ( your ground coffee ) to hop and skip over the top of the filter portion when you first apply it . Bloom looks cool , but can make using a press pot more difficult . The poor filtering part sounds questionable to me , so I googled it and found a few bloom-related comments <URL> . It seems like some people start timing their soak time only after they see bloom . This seems like the real reason to me . I know for sure that the air content in ground substances can vary significantly : one cup of flour can contain double the volume of another if one is loosely sifted and the other is compacted . The above quote is accurate about that in my opinion . Apply this logic to coffee and in order to produce an accurate , general recipe for how long some compounds take to come out of coffee grounds , you need to factor out a variable between coffee grounds : how much air is in the grindings . Maybe the first small pour will saturate with coffee compounds , or drop in temperature quickly , reducing how much it can extract from the grounds . Once it squeezes out all the air , the rest of the water is poured in to do the real extraction work .
The proteins in a fresh egg are too viscous , even when thoroughly beaten , to wash a baked good . The water thins the proteins so you get a nice glaze instead of a layer of scrambled egg . Older eggs have sometimes degraded enough that they do n't need the water but it is easier to always add water than to make a subjective judgement on the state of your egg proteins .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
In my experience , they 're best at concentrating mold spores , and hiding away unsightly loaves . While chic , and quite popular in the days before plastic bags , they 're not much use now . Pretty much the same as the " <URL> "
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
end question
start question
What is a good technique to make Iced Tea ?
I enjoy the fruity herbal teas as iced tea . I brew a cup and then pour it in a cup of ice . It is a sugar-free cool drink that tastes and smells great .
While this is n't a substitute , you can get better deals on saffron and make it go further . First of all , do not buy it at a normal grocery store . It tends to be very expensive there . Instead go to a farmer 's market ( not one that happens every Thurs evening at the local church , but rather the big store ) . I 'd imagine most major cities will have one or more . Atlanta has at least 4 . Saffron is much , much cheaper at the farmer 's market . Second , thoroughly grind the saffron before using it . This will help the saffron more completely flavor a dish , requiring a smaller amount of saffron to get the flavor . A quick Google suggested Tumeric , but I ca n't really imagine that working , nor did a lot of the comments on the internets .
I found the solution which suits me : I first boil the milk , water , and jaggery together in quantity mentioned in the question . After the mixture reaches boiling point , I switch off the gas stove and throw in 2 table spoons of tea . I close the lid of the vessel and let the it sit on the gas itself for 6 minutes . After 6 minutes , I strain the tea and the result is a non woody strong hot tea . I think it is important to let the covered vessel sit on the gas because otherwise the tea will cool off in 6 minutes .
In the interests of science I gave this a try . Used a can of carbonated water , boiled in my kettle . There was no boiling water explosion , although I more than half expected one . It seemed to maybe boil a little faster , but that 's more likely due to the fact that it 's less liquid than I usually heat . Being a tea fanatic I have a lot of flavored teas but I opted for PG Tips , figuring I would taste any difference a little more easily . I caught very little flavor difference from usual , maybe a little stronger but that could be chalked up to any number of things besides using carbonated water . So yeah , I think carbonated water would probably work in a pinch . Probably do n't put too much of it in the kettle , though . ( A small part of me still suspects that had it been full it would have shot boiling water everywhere ) .
By grinding it , you are also increasing the surface are of the herb when it reaches the tongue , and you are exposing the raw/inner ( bitter ) flavors of the herb to the mouth . When cooking with it " un-ground " , the cooking process extracts just the oils from the herb , and leaves the leaf in tact which does not taste unpleasant to the senses . I would certainly use less of a ground herb , but my preference would be to leave it in it 's natural dried state , and if you want more taste just increase the quantity . The only exception I have for this is when making rubs , where the fat of the meat ( or oil for a bread dip ) typically complements the bitter flavor of the ground herb .
You use the leaves , not the carrot themselves . I do n't know for sure this is what your Russian Civil War book was talking about , but I know it works , and besides , if they were desperate enough for acorn coffee and carrot tea , I imagine they were eating the carrots . <URL> suggests that you might need 1/4 cup of carrot greens per 1 cup of water ; you can find plenty more searching for " carrot top tea " .
Anything that 's hard to get off of your counter can make a good food coloring . Regarding natural sources , remember that you run the risk of also adding additional flavors so take that into consideration . Among other companies , <URL> makes all natural foods including colorful fruit snacks . What they use for the coloring in these snacks are : turmeric , black carrot juice concentrate , and annatto . ( I 've cooked with turmeric and annatto before and they DEFINITELY stain . ) Aside from Google searches , you could probably find practical natural food dyes by looking in the ingredient list from other all-natural foods . Back to your specific question about beets , this is from <URL> : 1 Put your fresh beets in a glass or enamel pan with just enough water to fully cover them . Bring to a boil and turn the heat down a bit to simmer for 30 minutes . Make sure the water does n't boil out . Take them off when the beets are not quite done - When a knife goes into them but they 're not as soft as you 'd like for eating . Remove them from heat . 2 Strain the beets , reserving the beet juice . Peel , slice and chop up your beets . Return them to the beet juice . Soak for four hours . 3 Strain the liquid out and take out 3/4 cup . Add your 2 teaspoons vinegar to this . This is your red dye . 4 Use canned beets and you can skip half of the work . Drain the can reserving 3/4 cup liquid . Add 2 teaspoon of vinegar to this and you 're done . You can still eat the beets , too . The fresh ones are n't terribly appealing after this .
In professional smoothie/frozen youghurt/fruit shake shops , you 'll usually see the fruit frozen in small pieces for easy portioning . So raspberrys and blueberrys are fine , but you 'd wnat to quarter strawberrys and cube mangoes or apples or kiwis or whatever before freezing them . The freezing process itself is important to the strucutral integrity of the fruit , and will affect its texture . However , if you only want them for smoothies/blended drinks , that is n't very important . As a usage note , remember that a home freezer compartment is usually at -4 degrees Celsius , whereas a chest freezer ( deep freeze ) would more commonly be at -18 degrees . A good blender wo n't mind either way , but your lips might find it a bit cold . Also , you might find you can buy the fruit pre-frozen from the same vendors the shops get them , in which case it will be prepared for you , and all you need is to defrost and blend . Aside from saving you the work of peeling and chopping , their freezing process may be better , and it 'll probably end up being cheaper too .
The amount of tea you use wo n't affect the flavor of tea adversely ; the way you brew it will . This also depends on what kind of tea you 're making ( black , oolong , green , white , herbal ) . Greater quantities of tannins are <URL> , which makes the tea more bitter . TL ; DR : If you follow the instructions for brewing temperature and time , you should be able to more or less add as much tea as you want . Black teas are brewed with boiling water , typically for 2-3 minutes . Green , white and oolong teas are usually brewed at lower temp ( 180 F ) for 3-4 minutes , and herbal teas at just below boiling for anywhere from 4-8 minutes . I 've found that I can easily more than double the amount of tea leaves I use , brew it at the recommended temperature for the recommended time ( most tea packages should have instructions ) , and store the 2x concentrated tea in my refrigerator . Upton Tea has a <URL> for water temps and amounts . They also have <URL> for hot and cold brewing iced tea - they recommend double or tripling the leaf quantity when hot brewing , then diluting to taste . ( I buy a lot of my teas from here , and their instructions have never steered me wrong . ) If you 're looking for even more information about preparation of and descriptions / histories of different types of tea , I recommend the Harney &amp; Sons <URL> .
A normal domestic oven never heats strong enough to produce a crisp crust . This is why pan searing is usually done : the direct heat transfer causes the maillard reaction which is impossible in the oven . As no setting in the oven will give you that , you are better off using lower temperature . It takes longer , but makes for a more even heating , which results in a better roast with a smaller heat-gradient-overdried part . If you want your browned surface , you will have to give it a good heat blast before/during/after the cooking . I agree that a pan sear will probably ruin the seasoning . If your oven has a grill , you can use it . It should n't matter if you start with the grilling and then roast to the end after the skin is good , or first roast it almoast ready and then grill it until the crust is OK . Any way , counting the time spent under heat will probably not be acurate enough with this technique . You can try it , but the error probability without an oven thermometer is quite high . The other possibility are open flames . A kitchen butan burner seems to be the tool of choice for sous-videers , who of course never get a crust in the cooker . But it will probably char the spices even more than the pan searing method . You could get creative and finish the outside of the meat on a charcoal grill . The reason nobody makes thick steaks and roasts on it is that they do n't cook through . With a preroasted meat , this wo n't be a problem . If all this sounds like too much trouble to go through for a simple roast , you can just roast it slowly and eat crustless . Just because a crust is traditional , it does n't mean it has to be there every time .
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
Mirltons are a member of the squash family , but have a traslucent , soft-crisp texture which is n't really exactly like any other squash . In recipes where they are an incidental ingredient , you can generally substitute zucchini ( especially if you peel and seed it ) without too much trouble , but in recipes where they are a main flavor they are hard to substitute . And , as Mien points out , it never really works to substitute the main ingredient in a recipe . I suggest that your daughter wait for midsummer and check out Mexican or Indian groceries until she finds some .
I notice Flank steak already made the list , and once I would have agreed , but it 's gotten trendy , and with the trendiness , expensive . It 's still not fillet-price , but it tends to run in the 7-8 dollar a pound range where I live . The steak I like to grill that I find to be tasty , cheap , and available is <URL> . Do a light marinade , grill it as lightly as possible , cut across the grain of the meat , serve . Your mileage may vary , however . The cheapest cuts are almost always the ones that local cooks do n't know what to do with , and if the locals are hounds for the fajita , you 're not going to be able to find skirt steak at all . My advice is to go to the store with an open mind , and browse the meat counter looking for deals . I came home with 3 pounds of tenderloin tips for less than twenty bucks the other day : if I 'd gone out looking to buy such a thing , I 'd have been disappointed .
Number 3 will give you the best results . There simply is nothing as great in this world as a latke crisp from the frying pan , having spent but a couple seconds on a paper towel receiving the blessing of a few flakes of good sea salt . I 've never tried number 2 . If you do , please report back . Number 1 will not give you crisp latkes . They will still have the delicious taste of homemade latkes , but they will be soft , not crunchy .
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
Any meat that is good for fast cooking ( BBQ , frying , grilling etc. ) will be suitable for this . Do not use meat that is normally casseroled or slow cooked . For beef this is the non-exercised top parts of the cow . Typical western cuts are called sirloin , rump , and fillet You need very thin slices of meat more than cubes if you want any level of browning and cooking to be achieved The easiest way to do this is to partially freeze you meat for one to two hours in a normal domestic freezer . A slab of meat with a profile of around 30 x 80 mm ( ± 50 % ) is the easiest to handle . Use a sharp chef 's knife or meat cleaver and slice it into 2 to 3 mm thin slices which will cook very nicely on a pizza A well marbled ( mixed fat content ) cut would work better , like in this picture
The standard espresso drink is the double espresso ( a double espresso shot ) . Although you can get single or triple espressos , if you are comparing quality , the double espresso is the standard . Regardless of which type of shot you order , if you are comparing quality across different cafes , you should always order the same thing ( ie do n't order a single at one cafe and a double at another ) . Once again for standardization , I would recommend ordering a double at each one . My explanation of good espresso will be about straight espresso ( no milk , no sugar ) in an espresso mug/cup . Here are some characteristics of a quality double shot : Temperature : The espresso should be quite hot when served . If it is only lukewarm or warm right after it is made , then the barista did not heat the cup that it was served in . It should be to the temperature where it is too hot to drink ( for most people ) . It should only take a minute or so to cool off . Perhaps two minutes . Crema : There should be a nice layer of crema on top of the espresso ( a few millimeters thick , completely covering the espresso ) . This comes from the release of carbon dioxide when the espresso is extracted under pressure . The color should be golden-brown to dark brown for a double shot . The color will not always be uniform , it will sometimes be slightly lighter where the shot actually poured in the spot on the crema . The crema should remain for at least three - five minutes if not longer . Taste : The espresso should be bitter , but not too bitter ( high levels of bitterness are more characteristic of espresso long shots ) . It should be rich , but not too rich ( again , high levels of richness are more characteristic of espresso ristretto shots ) . It should NOT be sour . If it is sour , it has been sitting for too long before being served or was over-extracted . It should not taste watery , this is usually a characteristic of under-extraction . Smell : Hard to describe for espresso and the aroma will vary a lot . One thing to avoid is a ' sour ' smell , which usually indicates a sour taste , as described above , or that the coffee being used is inherently too acidic . Consistency : Espresso is going to be thicker and more viscous than regular drip coffee , but it wo n't be syrupy . When you are done your espresso , the drop or two that remain at the bottom of the cup , when dried should leave a distinct brown residue on the bottom of the cup . Notes , and other things to keep in mind : You will have to remember that different cafes will use different varieties of beans for making espresso , so this is going to affect the flavor . Different cafes use different amounts of ground espresso and different amounts of water when preparing their espresso . The industry standard is 2 oz ( about 60 milliliters ) for a double shot , but in my cafe we do our double shots to 3 oz . Most importantly , learning to recognize good espresso is an experienced based endeavor , just like with wine , beer , or food . On a personal note , I love to do this with cafes as well ! I always judge the quality of a cafes espresso and ability by ordering my favorite drink : a double espresso long . In fact , I am going to a new cafe to do it today !! A Lovely Looking Cup of Espresso :
Basically , a chutney is a kind of savoury jam . This is a very simplistic definition though . The main differences between jam and chutney are as follows : The preservation in jam is only by sugar . In chutney , vinegar and sugar are used together , so chutneys are not necessarily sweet . Jam is almost always made with fruit as the main ingredient . In chutney , fruit can be used , but so can vegetables . Also , chutneys tend to be a mix of more than one thing . For example , an apple chutney will have plenty of apples , but also swede and onion in it . Jams usually do not add other flavours to the fruit and sugar ( pectin is for texture ) . Chutneys are usually flavoured with several spices , as well as chili peppers , onions and garlic . In the Indian subcontinent , chutneys are served along with the meal in small amounts , as a condiment to add to the meal . They are usually eaten with the blander side/starter dishes like pakoras or samosas , rather than with the spicy and flavourful main dishes . In the rest of the former British Empire , and particularly in England , it is eaten on bread , with butter or cheese , in a similar way to jam or pickle . Note that what the English call pickle is also a sort of savoury jam , not pickled cucumbers like in America .
A roux normally is equal parts fat and flour . It should be fairly solid , not runny . However , it is an individual decision . I 've known guys who like it quite solid ( like me ) , but you have to whisk the hell out of it to get out all of the lumps . Normally , if I am making a sauce or soup that I ca n't strain , I will make it a little slack . I also add my roux after so I can control the thickness of the sauce or soup . Normally you are not instructed to do so , but you have greater control . If you do it this way , you have to vigorously whisk while adding , or the starches will congeal together in lumps . No big deal if it you are able to strain , but ...
Alright . I did it . I took photos , but it might be only later before I can upload them . The Equipment . Small macchinetta , enough for two small tea glasses . The Process . I put about half the height of the holding chamber . In retrospect , I could have gone even 2/3rd of the height . Edit : I just opened up the pot , to clean it up , it seems that my amount was right on the money . After the second pot the leaves expanded even more . I think that a third pot could have been made with them as well . End edit . I poured water to the appropriate height ( or a bit less ) , and put it on the stove on a low heat until there was some noise that indicated that more or less the tea is ready . The first serving was weak . But that was expected , my dad remarked that it 's normal for the first washing to be weak . So we did a second run . The result was pretty good . It would have been better if I padded up the tea leaves , but it was pretty nice . The Consequences . I would n't recommend this method over pouring hot water through the tea leaves ( not steeping ) . But the experiment was fun ! Thanks for the two answerers that reassured me that this is doable .
end question
start question
How should I store leftover uncooked lasagna sheets ?
Anything airtight is fine . If the sheets will fit in a Ziploc , that would be perfect . Another option that would certainly be big enough is a bread bag , well sealed . If you still have the box the pasta came in , you can put the bag inside the box to give the pasta a small measure of protection against breakage . I checked with <URL> and they did n't have anything to really add to that .
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
Yes , it is possible , and in fact usually results in better bread , because the yeast has more time to work and develop flavour . It depends on the recipe , but you should usually reduce the amount of yeast being used to prevent overproofing . You can keep most doughs for a couple of days in the fridge , depending again on the amount of yeast and how often the fridge is opened . Simply mix and knead your dough as normal , cover it tightly with plastic wrap over the bowl , then put it straight in the fridge . You will usually need to allow a couple of hours the next morning for the dough to ' wake up ' and finish a full proof , but if your dough has fully risen in the fridge ( ie it has grown 1.5-2 times ) you can go straight to shaping .
Not long at all . Usually 1 minute is enough . If it starts to turn brown , it 's been in there too long .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
Keep it airtight in a cool , dark place and it should remain good infefinitely . You 'll certainly be fine 1-2 years .
I mostly agree with GdD 's answer , but I 'll add a couple more comments . This may be an obvious answer , but I 'd generally follow the recommendation on the specific bottle . Some sauces will clearly state " refrigerate after opening , " and others wo n't . The Frank 's FAQ <URL> is an example of these sorts of instructions : two specific products recommend refrigeration , but in other cases for Frank 's hot sauces it is n't required ( " but doing so will keep the product fresher for a longer period of time " ) . I 've also seen an occasional product that said refrigeration " recommended " or something on the package . I 'd generally assume that if a manufacturer bothers to say something about refrigeration , it 's a good idea to do it . Sometimes it may be for food safety , but in other cases it may just be a product with ingredients that will lose flavor or degrade rapidly at room temperature . Most hot sauces wo n't degrade noticeably at room temperature even over a period of several months , and many will be stable for a couple years . Others will change flavors slowly over time at room temperature , but not necessarily in a negative way . ( Some sauces are deliberately " aged " or fermented at room temperature for periods from a week to several years , and sometimes these processes will continue to change the product even after it is bottled . Some sauces will undergo natural browning reactions at room temperature as well , which can alter flavor . I know some people who actually prefer hot sauce this way , though I 'm personally skeptical . ) If there 's a " best before " date on your sauce and no instruction to refrigerate , you can probably assume the sauce is supposed to maintain quality at least that long without refrigeration . However , that does n't guarantee that it will stay exactly the same over that period . As GdD said , refrigeration will almost always keep the sauce more stable .
The most important thing is to check everything and then check it again . Test your recipes and figure out what can be done in advance without reducing the quality . You should have checklists of everything that needs to come with you ( food , cooking utensils , serving utensils , eating utensils , decoration , cleanup gear , etc. ) You must pre-scout the location and make sure you have thought through how your logistics are going to work - do you have the refrigerator and burner space you need , for example ? Think through how everything will be transported as well . Will you be able to keep everything at safe temperatures ? Make sure all containers are thoroughly sealed , and if there is any risk of spills , add a layer of masking tape . Bring extras of everything . Inevitably , something is going to spill or there will be more guests than anticipated . Then check everything again . Also , keep good records of what you made and what got eaten so you 'll be ready to do it next time .
Yes and no ; in smaller quantities ; no problem . If you sit down in the morning and eat bowl daily ; you will cause some serious long term issues . Raw flour is full of lectins and phytates ; which can pose a danger in higher amounts ; damage the lower GI and cause IBS ; other issues Nutrient problems can develop from the raw flour intake at higher amounts Bacteria standpoint ; no problem ; eat away . As the comment mentioned ; some fresh pasta could be harmful because of the raw egg .
It will if you add more icing sugar but you may end up with a lot of buttercream depending on how much of the icing you have left . A basic ratio is 4 cups icing sugar to 1 cup of butter and 1/4 cup of liquid which makes 3 cups of icing . You may have to add more icing sugar , then more butter to compensate for the water if there 's more than 1/4 cup in your original biscuit icing .
I happen to have watched a TV show the other day about this very problem and they suggested making a big batch of whatever filling or fillings you are thinking of using ( presently or in the future ) and go ahead and make them all up and freeze them ready to cook . They were making several kinds of ravioli that day . They made them all up and placed them on cookie sheets to freeze and then placed them in ZipLock bags and they had a nice supply to pull out of the freezer whenever they were ready to cook them . They did n't have a problem with brittle wontons once they were filled . They used beaten egg to seal the edges so the filling would n't ooze out . You can use this same method for any shape or filling ... does n't have to be ravioli , of course .
It is perfectly safe to eat the peel in and of itself . You will need to make sure that you wash it properly , as it may be dirty . But beyond that , it 's simply a matter of taste . A lot of people do n't like the flavor / texture of the peel and so remove it . From a <URL> : Kiwi fruit skin is definitely edible , and there 's a lot of different theories about eating it . Kiwi fruit skin contains high levels of flavonoids , insoluble fiber and antioxidants : these substances all have a beneficial effect on your body 's metabolic functions ( flavonoids and antioxidants ) and on your digestive system and cardiovascular apparatus ( insoluble fiber ) . Common sense , however , should be practiced in this respect : while raw kiwi fruit skin contains these beneficial substances , it also tends to contain more than 99,95 % of of the pesticides in that particular fruit ( if they have been used ) , which largely outweighs the benefits from flavonoids and antioxidants .
I 'm pretty sure the word " live " means that it 's raw and uncooked . I found a recipe for <URL> that 's very similar to the menu item you describe . It uses zucchini " noodles " , cashew " ricotta " , along with marinated mushrooms , and tomato sauce to make a raw and meatless " lasagna " . The only apparent difference is that the recipe calls for spinach pesto instead of pine nut pesto .
As a fermented bean paste , it should last for weeks in an airtight container in the fridge . For best results , make sure to leave as little head room ( for air ) as possible in the container . To be honest , when I store Miso ( for example ) , I just squeeze the air out and put a clip on the bag it came in , and then leave it in the fridge . If you need longer storage than several weeks , you can probably freeze it , though at that point you might want to consider buying smaller packages .
Yes , you can store it for about a day in the fridge . Let it warm up again before you cook it though .
Just keep it dry . I buy 100 sheets packs and store them in a zip-loc type bag in the cupboard for over a year
Unless you 're feeding 20 , chances are you want the smallest bird they have . It does n't really matter if you should have 1 lb per person or 1.5 if you have 8 people and their smallest bird is 12 pounds - and I 'm willing to bet that 's the case . That said , I generally allow 1 lb per person and do n't count the smallest children ( say , have n't started school yet . ) I also tend to send a lot of leftovers home with other people . Our feasts are very veggie heavy , but as I mentioned above you may have less control over this than you think .
A very fresh , ripe ear of corn will have a moist , green , unblemished husk ; when peeled back , its silk will also moist and clinging to the kernels . In the store , you may find that an ear of corn will have a slightly dried out husk , but if it 's still green and the kernels look plump when the husk is pulled back , that ear 's fine . Ignore any husks that are very dry with rotten-looking , off-smelling silk tops .
Yes , it is perfectly safe uncooked , although it may be unpalatable without being sweetened . For example , you can make your own chocolate milk mix with cocoa powder and powdered sugar . Simply mix it into milk , without cooking , and enjoy . It is also dusted uncooked as a garnish or accent on some pastries or cakes .
end question
start question
What can be used as an alternative for Applesauce ?
Applesauce has little flavor and almost no nutritional value . It is added to baked goods for the one thing it does have - pectin . Pectin interferes with gluten in a similar manner to fat although by a different mechanism . For this reason applesauce is often used to replace some of the fat in recipes for health-conscious bakers . <URL> . Or if you are <URL> . Other banana bread recipes are very similar to cakes and rely on a huge amount of fat - often creamed with a large amount of sugar . Your options are then to : Replace the applesauce with some other oil substitute . Another puree of high-pectin fruit would work . Switch to a recipe that just uses the fat and enjoy a richer banana bread .
UHT ( Ultra High Temperature ) processing kills all the pathogens in the milk , so it can be conserved for a long time . However to make yogurt you add bacteria ( lactobacillus ) , so if there are n't other microorganism it should be even better .
Well , it looks like I found my answer : <URL> is used for creating <URL> . Field corn includes a few types of corn ( dent , flour , flint , waxy ) . I 'm not sure if all types of field corn are used for masa de maíz , however . So , if anyone has a more specific answer , feel free to give it . I 'm guessing really any kind of corn could be nixtamalized , however ( but some kinds may be more ideal than others ) . Other kinds of grain besides corn can also be nixtamalized .
Here , in Turkey , cabbage dolma is also very popular . I have no clue about cooking , but probably you may need to cook it differently .
You can use buckwheat for pizza dough , but it will not be anything like an actual wheat flour . Buckwheat is n't actually a grain and does n't contain gluten . The gluten is what gives pizza dough it 's chewy texture ( and makes it stretchable when you 're tossing the pie ) . You need to substitute something like xanthum gum to make up for it . If you want to go down this path , google ' gluten free baking ' for advice and directions . On the other hand , buckwheat makes an excellent partial flour substitute in pancakes .
You should be able to cook on your grill using various types of wood such as hickory , mesquite , cherry , maple , apple , etc. . Per <URL> , birch can be used also . Birch - A softer wood , Birch is best used when grilling or smoking cuts of pork and poultry , providing a flavor similar to some varieties of maple . Birch is a softer wood and can also be syrupy . Also hard woods cook longer than soft woods . Be sure to use large chunks rather than chips or small pieces . Just keep these things in mind when cooking with birch .
Given the source ( Michael Ruhlman ) and that it was linked by Seriouseats , I am willing to bet cash money that not only does it work exactly as stated , it will provide spectacular results .
Yes , as long as it has n't been opened . ' Best Before ' dates refer to quality , not safety , and reflect the date at which the manufacturers believe that it is not up to normal quality standards . Have a taste , and if you think it 's OK , go ahead .
AFAIK , meat is not really used for Tempura . Do vegetables . ( I assume you already do that ) . If you want to do fried battered meats , I would suggest cutting them as small as possible . Cut the meat into thin strips . You could also use cheese , look for grilling cheese like Halloumi .
Fondant is nearly solid -- it 's rolled out , and placed onto the cake ( with a buttercream underneath as an adhesive ) . The advantage is that it goes on really quickly and smoothly over large items . It can also be cut into shapes with rather clean edges ( modeling chocolate gives sharper edges , but it 's not flexible enough to cover a round cake ) . You often see it on professional non-traditional cakes ( more novelties , when they need a solid color or something that 's strangely shaped . Fondant can also be used to give a solid background can then be piped into ( with buttercream icing , generally ) or painted . As it 's nearly solid , it can also be worked like you would clay to make decorations . Royal icing dries hard as it has no fat in it . It 's generally only used on cakes as a drizzle where you 're not attempting to cover the entire cake . You 'll often see it used on bundt cakes , but you more frequently see it used for cookies when you 're doing a flood-fill . Buttercream icings ( commonly called ' frosting ' in the US ) is likely the most standard for non-professional stacked cakes . It 's spread on , so it takes a little more work to get a clean smooth surface . ( the trick is to wait 'til the surface has hardened , put down some waxed paper , then smooth out all of the spatula marks ... you need to wait 'til the waxed paper does n't stick , but not so long that it has n't set up completely ) . You can also use buttercream in pastry bags to create flowers , ropes , basketweave and other decorations . ... And then there 's other frostings/icings , too , but they 're not as general purpose . They generally go with specific types of cakes -- caramel and other cooked frostings ( eg , used in ' German Chocolate Cake ' ) , cream cheese frosting ( for carrot and other spice cakes ) , whipped cream ( used in black forest cake &amp; strawberry shortcake )
If you 're looking for alcoholic alternatives then you could use O'Mara 's or some other brand ( see <URL> for a good list ) . A light coffee liquer could also serve as a workable alternative . On the non-alcoholic side , Irish Cream flavored coffee creamers would work well . Coffee syrups like Monin 's or Torani 's also have Irish Cream flavors . I personally like Monin syrups because they 're all natural .
Practically all dairy starts with full fat milk , this is all that comes out of a cow . The process of cheesemaking centers around separating the curds from the whey ( except for making true ricotta , which is made from whey ) . The fat stays with the curds . So the fat content of your cheese goes sharply up compared to the liquid you started with , because you are throwing out most of the water , as well as some proteins and carbohydrates , but keeping all the fat . There are cheeses which start with cream . In theory , they can also be said to be started from milk , because cream itself is made from milk . In practice , if you want to make them at home , you will start with store-bought cream . As far as I 'm aware , it is not possible to make mascarpone or cream cheese when starting from milk . If there is a way , it would require a recipe different from the one starting from cream . So , if you have a recipe which asks for cream , you should follow it with cream and not with milk . Else , even if you manage to get the correct fat percentage , the ratio of proteins to fat or water to fat wo n't be right . But if you just have the milk and want to make any fresh cheese , you can make one of the many fresh cheeses which are not started with cream . Tvorog , paneer and quark are all milk based fresh cheeses , and delicious in their own right .
For protection against heat , you can stabalize the milk with starches . ( eg , a white sauce made with milk wo n't curdle , even if you boil it ) . I unfortunately do n't know how much you 'd have to add , and of course , it 'll end up affecting the texture of your soup ) . For soups , you 're likely better off making a corn starch/milk slurry before adding the milk , so you do n't have to cook it like you would flour to get rid of the raw flour taste . You may also want to consider the heat that you 're cooking the soup at -- you likely want a low simmer , not a full boil .
Mark Bittman actually includes a very handy quick-reference flour substitution table in <URL> ( mine is the 10th anniversary edition , not sure if it 's in previous editions ) . This assumes that the bread recipe calls for all-purpose flour and tells you how much you can substitute for the quantity the recipe calls for : Whole wheat : use up to 50 % in recipes Rye : light : up to 40 % medium : up to 30 % dark/pumpernickle : up to 20 % Cornmeal : up to 10 % Buckwheat : up to 20 % Rice : up to 25-30 % Nut : up to 25-30 % Soy : up to 25 % Spelt : up to 100 % ; then either decrease water by 25 % or increase flour by 25 % Oat : up to 25-30 % The reason that different types of flours substitute at different ratios is primarily due to gluten content . Breads ( both quick and yeast ) made with alternative flours , especially non-wheat flours , will be heavier , denser , and less elastic ; the substitution ratios above are meant to provide a nice balance between the nutritional and flavor advantages of the alternative flours with the texture qualities of all-purpose flour . For more information about the specific properties of each type of flour listed here , see the section called " The Basics of Flour " in How to Cook Everything ( p. 835-838 in the 10th Anniversary ed . ) Note : These substitutions are specifically for breads , where you want a sturdy , elastic structure . Low-protein or low-gluten flours may substitute at different ratios in other types of baked goods like desserts where you want a finer , more tender crumb . But I did n't get into that since the question was specifically about bread .
Of those two , Maida flour is the closest to ' Western ' all-purpose flour ( which is an American term . It is called plain flour in Britain ) . Atta flour is made from durum wheat , which is used for things like pasta ( and of course Indian breads like chapatis ) . Maida flour is made with ' regular ' wheat , but it also has a lower protein content than all-purpose flour ( 8-10 % as opposed to 9-12 % ) . The impact of this lower protein level will depend on what you 're cooking . Maida flour should be good for making cakes , for example .
Imitation vanilla extract is meant to be used in place of the real stuff , and most recipes probably assume you 're using the fake stuff anyway , so you would use 1 tsp . You only need to adjust the amount if you 're using something like twofold ( 2x ) extract .
I think everyone agrees that " artisan " gets tossed around as a marketing term that is largely empty or vapid , referring as much to the " old world " images used on the bag than to the bread itself . However , I think there is an actual " artisan " quality to food , and that it relates to several qualities or ethics of the producer - which you do find in some actual bakeries : Develops their own recipes - an artisan baker should be developing recipes that meet their needs . If they do n't know enough to do that , then they are just following instructions . Tweaks recipes carefully over time to maximize the intended qualities of the bread . An " artisan " producer understands the variables that impact the quality of their product and constantly adjust them to keep the bread quality high , despite changing or variable ingredients . Follows the ethic of " Flavor Rules " , and flavor is the first priority . Of course they have to be a business-person as well , but recipe changes and enhancements should primarily be made to improve flavor , not reduce cost , improve packability , etc. . Has a real passion for what they are doing , and holds themselves to the highest standard . Artists are always the most critical of their own work , and are constantly looking for ways to improve . A home baker may not be an " artist " , but when I make " artisan breads " at home ( and I think this is what Peter R. is referring to ) , I do so with an intent to make the bread as good as I possibly can , even if this means baking it tomorrow instead of tonight , or ordering special flours online . I contrast this with my " makin ' dinner " baking , where I obviously want it to be good , but am willing to give up some perfection in order to get it done tonight . Neither method is inherently better , but they are undertaken with a different intent and process .
Flour paste . Mix flour with water and a bit of salt . Go for a thick glaze-like consistency , and use it instead of the egg . Give it at least 10 minutes to hold before frying , and try to hold the edges closed with tongs when initially frying .
Tomatoes grow on a vine . But it is possible to pick them unripe , ship them unripe ( which is much easier than shipping ripe tomatoes ) , then gas them with ethylene at the destination . Ethylene acts as a plant hormone and causes ripening . But tomatoes ripened in storage do n't taste the same as vine ripened ones . The compounds a tomato builds are dependent on the amount of UV light it gets , the surrounding temperature , the speed of ripening , the nutrients it gets during ripening , and many other variables . There are lots of tasty compounds it creates while ripening on the vine , which are absent when it ripens in storage . This is why vine ripened tomatoes are tastier . It is also more expensive to let them ripen naturally , therefore the producers label the vine ripened ones as a sign of quality , else customers would n't be willing to pay the premium .
@Chris : Does the recipe from the Nero Wolfe cookbook say anything about dumping the milky/watery portion out of the pan before returning the butter to it to brown ? Clarified butter WILL NOT brown , that is the purpose for clarifying it . The milk solids are what brown . The portion that usually goes to the bottom will be the whey and the milk solids initially tend to form the " scum " on the top . To me it sounds like he 's trying to suggest that you should pour the butter &amp; solids off , dump out any whey , and then return the butter to the pan so you can heat it to the point of a dark brown without it splattering ( which is caused by the water in the whey ) . 4 tablespoons of butter is n't going to have much whey in the first place so just cook the whole butter to the beurre noir point .
end question
start question
Selecting [ corn ] for Pozole ?
Pozole is traditionally made with nixtamalized corn , also known as nixtamal or hominy . So yes , of course you can use hominy - that 's what you 're supposed to use ! Canned hominy/nixtamal is common . I believe that in some areas you can find dried whole nixtamal and possibly even fresh nixtamal - but I 'm not sure I ever saw that in Texas , so I 'm not sure how much luck you 'll have . As with everything , people say that fresher is better ; I ca n't personally support that , though , not having managed to find it where I live . I have , however , made some pozole that I found to be quite good using canned hominy . Since you 're planning on pozole rojo , you 'll have a lot of other flavor , which I expect would make the difference between canned and fresh less noticeable . I suppose if you want to try to nixtamalize your own corn for the sake of having the optimal pozole , you could , and you would have time . I 've never tried it myself . From what I 've read , cooking/soaking times vary depending on what you 're going to do with the nixtamal . For pozole , you do n't have to cook and soak the corn as long since it 's going to be further cooked in the stew . I 've seen varying instructions online . For example , <URL> says to cook for 15 minutes , soak for another 5-10 , while <URL> says to cook for 40-50 minutes . After that you rinse it thoroughly to remove the lime and hulls ( softened by the lime ) , before cooking it in your pozole . I imagine either of those cooking times would produce something satisfactory ; with it of course being more tender with the longer time . Note also that the corn wo n't get that nice puffed shape if you do n't remove the tip cap ( one of those pages calls it a pedicel - not sure that 's the right term ) . So with a lot of effort and adventurousness , you could indeed make your own nixtamal ( hominy ) , and it might well be better , but you can also make something extremely good with already-made hominy and not take a risk on something I suspect you 're feeding to others .
Whenever you want grill marks . Or , perhaps , if you want to ensure fat rendered out of meat drips away . Why you would want to do this I do not know .
If you 're cooking it on the cob , remove the silk after you 've cooked it . I typically microwave my corn in the inner husk , when you pull it out the silk just slides right off .
Apple brandy goes particularly well with pork chops or pork tenderloin . It would also be a good substitute when a dessert calls for brandy , such as Baked Fruit ( maybe Pears ? ) , or an apple cake .
As with all can goods , as long as the can has no physical defects ( meaning swollen or dented , ectera ) , the contents should still be good . The date on the outside is mainly a best by date , after which a company will no longer vouch for the contents contained therein .
You want to use an oil that will handle the hotter temperatures of a wok . This <URL> suggests that most refined oils will work fine . Do n't use unrefined oils or butter because they 'll burn . Once you 've got an oil that will handle the heat , you want something that will taste good . I think that 's the main issue with olive oil . There are n't olives in asian cuisine and I think that would taste a bit funny . I tend to use vegetable or canola oil for the majority of my stir-frying and then add a little sesame oil towards the end ( generally when sauteing garlic and ginger ) . The sesame oil adds a strong asian flavor to the food . I 've tried just using sesame oil , as a recipe sometimes recomends , but I find the flavor overpowering . Unrefined sesame oil is fairly common at the grocery store , and you do n't want to use that as it will burn in the wok ( but it could be drizzled on the food after cooking ) .
I make gingerbread houses every year . Walls should be approximately 1/4 inch thick . I have found that cutting the pieces first to work best . Yes there is some spread , but when they come out of the oven , I replace the stencil and trim up any spread ( for the straight outside edges , a pizza cutter works well ) . I know it sounds redundant , but sometimes I do n't cut quick enough , or I am distracted by the phone , or any other number of things , if I only cut after baking . With the items pre-cut , if I get distracted , I at least have a usable part . Granted I may have to shave any spread very gently with a microplane or the edge of a knife , but that is just what works for me . I also will roll the dough out on parchment paper , cut and remove the excess , then slide the whole thing onto a pan for baking . This way , you do n't get any " stretch " of your pieces . I have several square cookie cutters that I will use to cut out the windows and such . I make the windows rectangular by using the cookie cutter and cutting a square then moving it and cutting another half square . This is helpful because when the gingerbread comes out of the oven , you do n't have to spend a lot of time with a knife trimming the inside of all the windows ... you just punch any spread out with the cookie cutter . As Sobachatina mentioned , melted sugar makes beautiful windows . I however , will lay the walls on a silicone mat and pour the sugar directly into the window holes . No need to " glue . " I 'd hate for you to make a gingerbread house with the " wrong " icing . You want an icing that will dry rock hard , like cement . For this you will want to use " Royal Icing . " For larger houses , use canned goods to hold the walls in place while the icing dries . The house should be built at least one day before you start decorating , to be sure it has set up really good .
I would use this broth to make soups . It would make a great base for a number of soups such as scotch broth , but also for using for the stock for making other soups such as lentil or whatever you fancy . Good luck !
What happens is not so different than when you do add at boil . You just have less control over the perfectly cooked point . At sea level , water boils at 100 & deg ; C and 212 & deg ; F. However , when you add your room temperature ( or from the fridge at 4 & deg ; C temperature ) , the water temperature drops . How much you say ? well it depends mostly on the weight of water and the weight of your vegetables . If you add 1lb of vegetable from the fridge to 4 quart of boiling water , you 'll end up with a mix that is maybe around 85 & deg ; C ( 185 & deg ; F ) . At this point the stove tries to take the new mix back up to boiling point and your vegetables continue to cook . By adding the vegetables before boiling point , you 'll reduced the mixed temperature even further . At any given temperature , different vegetables will take a certain amount of time to cook . Since the temperature here is going up and down , knowing exactly when they 're prefect gets much harder , that 's why the recipes try to standardize on the boiling water at x minutes thing . That said , some food when taken through a range of temperature ( say cold to hot ) will have different components in them denature at different times and some things dissolving into the water before cooking begins . This sequence might end up with unpleasant and unsightly things released into the water and the food not holding together well . the bottom line : If you were close to boiling when you added food , do n't worry about it . If you put the food in cold water then brought to boil , you 're looking at a different recipe :)
The difference between the two can be seen below ( the post it is from is an <URL> ) : The corn flour is the white , finer ingredient on the right . The first obvious difference is that the texture will differ between the two . The second is that it would have different uses . Both would be effective at displacing gluten-containing flours ( as in , neither would be helpful in gluten formation ) . In terms of substitution , however , corn meal is likelier substituted by something like semolina flour and corn flour is likelier better substituted by quinoa or garbanzo bean flour .
With any game I automatically think about avoiding overcooking as it is quite lean , however any sausage may have fat added to it to prevent it drying out , so a simple look at your sausage should tell you how much fat it has . If it is really dark with very little white in it then there 's little fat and you need to make sure you do n't overcook them , if there 's a good proportion of fat then cook them as you would normally . The best reference I have for cooking game is out of an app called <URL> which says : The trouble with game is that you do n't know where it 's been . Modern animal husbandry has eliminated many common foodborne illnesses and makes raised meat very safe but wild meat may have some diseases . For this reason some recommend that game be cooked to a minimum of 160F ( 71C ) which is where all foodborne illnesses are wiped out , however with most game this will make it dry and unpalatable . You as the cook must balance safety and flavor/tenderness . When eating be sure to be on the lookout for metal shot or bullets . To me there 's no point in buying game if you plan to cook it until it 's dry , so I aim to cook it to medium at 145F/63C at the most . It 's hard to gauge with sausages , so with low-fat game sausages I 'd brown them off and get them out pretty quick . As long as they 're firm you should be ok .
I suspect it depends what kind of cheese the whey came from . Whey has all of the water soluble components of the milk . It loses the casein and fat . How much of the albumin and lactose it loses depends on the cheese . If the milk was heated enough ( 190F I believe ) then the albumin will denature and not be in the whey . If the cheese was acidified with a bacterial inoculation then the bacteria will have converted some of the lactose into lactic acid which will both be in the whey . Riboflavin is water soluble and is what gives the whey that greenish tint . Either way - most of the nutrients that bacteria like are not in the whey and it is always highly acidic . I have personally kept whey for a couple weeks with no ill effect . I usually use my whey soon by making ricotta . If the cheese it came from did n't denature the albumin in the milk then you can gently heat the whey until the the albumin precipitates out . A gallon of whole milk makes almost a pound of mozzarella and then a little less than a cup of ricotta . That 's a lasagna right there .
The USDA recommendation for a safe internal temperature is 165 degrees for chicken . The breast , being leaner , should n't be cooked to any higher than that or it will dry out and be tough . The thigh can be cooked to a slightly higher temperature ( 165-175 ) . That is the Kitchen Network 's preference for taste and texture ( <URL> ) . Getting the thigh to a slightly higher temperature ( and keeping it there for longer ) helps the collagen break down , which will make it more tender and taste more moist .
They 're generally good for adding some crunch , too , not just the flavor . A few things that come to mind : on top of a salad - my family does a roasted corn and black bean salad ; also probably good instead of croutons in salads where they 're a better flavor/style fit garnish on a soup - tortilla soup , sopa de elote ... as part of a breading for fish or chicken ( or anything else to bake or fry ) In general , anywhere you would use breadcrumbs , tortilla chip crumbles might find a place . If you 're afraid they 're too salty , you could always put dump them in a sieve and shake some of the really small bits out , leaving the more sizable bits of chip .
If you do n't want gritty bread , use finely milled polenta . Roughly milled polenta is like semolina , and results in a gritty batter . Finely milled polenta is like flour , and results in a smooth batter . I do n't know the proper names for the different milling grades in English . I do n't mean cornflour , which is pure maize starch from the inside of the maize kernel . I mean whole maize kernels milled so the particles are the same size as wheat flour . It is yellow and tastes the same way as the rough one , only the texture is different . The two types of polenta differ in their water absorption and soaking times , so you may want to use a recipe developed for the fine milled type , or tweak your own recipe . To give you a better example , here is what you need : You do n't want to use the rough form , which looks like this :
It 's absolutely fine to make the dough in advance , just do n't let it dry out . It even freezes well . There is more good information on <URL> on the subject . Keep it on the counter for up to a day , refrigerated for up to three days , frozen for up to 6 months ( for best quality ) . In any case that you want to hold the dough , be sure that your baking powder ( if using ) is of the <URL> variety .
The following are sugar substitutes that are not considered " artificial sweetners . " The links provide interesting information that should be pondered before using any of them . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> For actual unrefined cane syrup or sugar ( considered healthier than sugar by those who consider less refined to equal more healthy ) , look to <URL> <URL> For artificial sweeteners , you could consider : <URL> ( you can get this in quantities suitable for baking at most grocery stores ) If you 're looking to lower your sugar , before going to artificial sweeteners do n't discount just teaching yourself a lower sugar diet by eating smaller portions of sweets and making your own sweets with a lower sugar content .
Black bean paste is also incorporated into Asian cuisine , and has a similar flavor , although earthier . Add a little sugar , maybe a little ground cashew or peanuts for nuttiness . It wo n't be the same , but it should work well enough . Since black beans are more common , this may work well enough for you .
Common names of plants are a very unclear matter . There are big differences not only between languages , but also regional differences within a single language . There are lots of ( closely related ) plants which are sold under the name blueberry . And probably not even the person who grew ( or gathered ) them can tell you the exact species . While it does matter when it comes to jam ( for the same reason it matters whether you use Roma tomatoes or Cherry tomatoes for a sauce ) it is highly improbable to find a source which can consistently provide you with a specific known variety . Also , you probably have to study some very specified botanical literature and be provided with parts of the plant other than the berries in order to be able to identify the type with some degree of accuracy . On the other hand , do n't let that come in the way of good jam . Blood orange marmelade may taste different than bitter orange marmelade , but both are good . The same goes for blueberries : you can use any variety , even if some of them would be a bit better on their own . What you need for a jam is a good sweetness to acid ratio , the proper amount of pectin , and as much aroma as possible . A softer texture also helps to prevent unpleasant lumps . So generally , you want to go with the ripest fruit available . They are soft , and have the fullest aroma . This is something you might want to consider with your current source of berries : maybe they 're not a special " green on the inside " variety , but only underripe . If they do n't taste very sweet , and their aroma is n't very complex , I 'd try to find other sources . Farmer 's markets and organic stores are usually able to sell much better fruits ( because they cater to a picky , price-inelastic clientelle ) , but of course they cost a lot too . Sweet fruit is always good , but you need enough sugar added for food safety . A ratio of 2:1 ( fruit to sugar ) can still be kept in the pantry , more fruit than that and you need to refrigerate the unopened glasses too . With blueburries , you 'll need to add both pectin ( to get the jam to gel ) and acid ( to get the pectin to work ) . This is the part which will vary with fruit variety : more watery types will need more pectin , and less acidic types will need more acid . If you want a good quality jam , you 'll need to do some experiments until you get the proportions right . If not , you can buy " jam sugar " or however it is called in your country - this is sugar with pectin and acid already added . It wo n't have the perfect ratio for your fruit , but it will more or less work . But then , if this quality is enough for you , you can skip buying the expensive berries and slaving at the stove , and buy manufactured jam .
<URL> are a snack food . I would not expect for you to be able to make humus out of them ; for one thing , they would have way too much salt , and the texture would be wrong . It might be possible with a lot of experimentation , but you 'd need to go through several failed batches before you got one which worked . Personally , I 'd just go back to the store .
end question
start question
Why does my oven take so long to heat up ?
There is a large collection or reasons , some are : Differences in makes and models Modern form over function problems Crap EU standards ( EN 60350 etc ) that limit the amount of power a element can use . It 's something like < = 0.25 W per cm2 , and a typical domestic over is around 1100 cm2 For same standards the typical total KW/h of modern over is 3.5 KW/h , where ovens of twenty years ago where around 4.5 KW/h \
The crystalization is to be expected , that 's what inverted sugar does . It is the same thing as with honey , which is chemically nothing but a contaminated inverted sugar . So , you are not doing anything wrong . In an inverted sugar at sucrose ratios , you will get sucrose crystalizing back out of the solution , just as you are observing now . If you really need it smooth , you can try changing the ratio by adding some fructose , as such a mixture is less prone to crystalizing . The one thing that puzzles me in your description is that you can not get it back smooth by heating , this should in principle be possible . Maybe try adding a bit of water to the syrup itself during heating , so it can dissolve again .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
Marinated tofu is essentially a myth perpetrated by well-meaning people who are , in my experience , culturally pretty far removed from cuisines where tofu is heavily used . Tofu is not especially porous , because it 's texturally very similar to a custard . Maybe osmotic pressure will result in a little flavor transfer to a custard , but it 's not the most efficient way to do it . Marinades are pretty rarely used for tofu in Asia in my experience . You 're more likely to see pan sauces or dipping sauces , or occasionally a topping added after cooking . But people in Japan , China , and Korea will generally expect a much fresher , beanier tasting tofu than you 're likely to find in a US supermarket , so there 's not as much of an impulse to cover up the flavor . In the US , thanks to generous expiration dates and a fairly unpicky customer base , a lot of tofu sold in supermarkets is slightly soured and just does n't taste very good . The primary effect of the dry frying technique on the page that you linked to will be to create a bunch of nooks and crannies and irregularities at the surface of the tofu that will make more of the sauce stick to the surface of the tofu , and the reduced water content will make it less likely for the tofu to break apart . The higher surface area may contribute to the perception of more flavor because you 'll have more of whatever salty solution you 've seasoned it with on your tongue . But inside the tofu you wo n't really get much additional flavor . Freeze-dried tofu removes most of the water from tofu and small holes form where water had previously been . When rehydrated and squeezed , you 'll be able to get a lot of a marinade to enter the tofu because there 's plenty of ways to get in there . The side effect is that the texture will be completely transformed into a sort of spongy mass , which can be pleasant on occasion but eventually gets a little tedious , so freeze-dried tofu is eaten only rarely and in small quantities in Japan and most of China . It 's frequently seen in lamb hot pots in China and occasionally in rustic simmered dishes in Japan . You can come close to the texture by actually freezing your tofu and then pouring boiling water over it a few times , but I usually just buy it from my local Japanese market . One form of marinated tofu sometimes seen in China involves very aggressively pressed/weighted tofu that 's been pushed between a muslin-like cloth for an extended period to drain . It 's often soaked or cooked in a soy and sugar solution with various spices , but most of the flavor and color is concentrated near the surface ; only some of the salt really seems to get to the center of that , so it 's often made in fairly thin blocks . I 've seen patted and pan-fried tofu used in Korea and occasionally in Japan , but it was typically not marinated ; it was typically cooked in a little oil until lightly browned and served with a dipping sauce of freshly-grated ginger and soy sauce . Deep-fried tofu also creates more surface area for sauces , especially if dusted with a starch like katakuriko or cornstarch , but it 's also generally only an occasional indulgence in Japan , China , and Korea , and also mostly affects capturing flavor that touches the surface of the tofu . ( I 'm less knowledgable about food as served in Southeast Asia , including Vietnam and Thailand , so I ca n't speak as authoritatively for all countries with a long history of serving tofu ) . I do n't know if it works well , but a Japanese TV show suggested that you can soak tofu in salted water to reduce the tendency for soft tofu to fall apart when stir-frying or braising . I have n't seen enough of a difference to justify regularly applying this technique and I have n't done a side-by-side comparison to be sure that it actually has much of an impact . But based on the guidance from that show , I suspect that if the marinade has any effect on structural integrity of the tofu , it 's due to salt and osmotic pressure .
Another physics digression . All cooked food gets hot , and everything in any given dish will have the same temperature { * } . The tomatoes do n't get hotter than the other ingredients . But they do have a tendency to burn more than certain other substances , so the question is " Why ? " . You get burned when a portion of your flesh reaches a high enough temperature { + } . The food warms your tongue , lips , etc. by heat conduction until either you move the food or your mouth parts and the food reach the same temperature ( a condition known as thermal equilibrium ) . What that common temperature is depends on the amount of heat ( i.e. thermal energy ) in the system . Some of the factors that come into play are : How much ( mass of ) food there is . How much ( mass of ) your mouth is involved ( see below ) . The initial temperature of the food . The " heat capacity " of both the food and your mouth parts , which is a property of each substance that appears as a coefficient in the thermal equilibrium equation . ( Do n't worry , I 'm not going to make you read any math . ) Water has a ( very ! ) high heat capacity , so watery foods tend to drive high final temperature and thus to burn you more easily . There is an added complication for the extra heat needed to establish a phase change ( i.e. melt solids or vaporize liquids ) called the heat of fusion or heat of vaporization . Again water has a high value for both of these numbers . How fast the common temperature is reached depends on The area of contact between the food and the mouth . Another coefficient called the thermal conductivity . This one is complicated , but liquids tend to have a high thermal conductivity and solids less so . This is where soups , sauces , and melted cheese really get you . Note that your mouth parts has a pretty low thermal conductivity , so you only get to count the surface layers in finding the equilibrium temperature . Sorry . Some consequences of all this : This is why you can peel the aluminum foil off of a pan that has just come out of a 400 degree ( F ) oven without trouble , but if you get your hand stuck in the steam plume ( which is only around 212 degrees F ) you get scalded : Aluminum has a low heat capacity , and steam has a ( very , very ! ) high one . Small bites help in two ways : less total heat means a lower common temperature , and may allow you to move the food around in your mouth , reducing the temperature of any one part . Some foods are just dangerous this way . You know what they are from experience : steam , hot soups and sauces , melted cheese , etc. . { * } Well , sort of . But take that as true for any particular region of any particular dish . { + } What temperature is that ? Good question . Maybe there is a medical professional around , 'cause I do n't know . I 'd guess around 140 -- 150 degrees F ( call it 60 -- 65 degrees C ) , but do n't quote me .
Try heating the cream and milk to just below a simmer . Right before adding the milk mixture to the yolks whisk the sugar , vanilla , and eggs together . Pour the hot milk mixture into eggs very slowly . It 's best to strain it through a fine strainer . If you use vanilla bean make sure to add it after straining it . Let cool a little before putting it into the fridge . It should be cold before making the ice cream . It 's not necessary to fully temper ice cream base like crème anglaise .
Bear in mind that I 'm using an electric kettle , rather than a stove-top one . First , the advantage of a kettle is that it is quite efficient , and turns itself off once the water is boiling . This as opposed to the microwave , which only stops after a set time , rather than relying on the condition of the water . Second , a microwave can cause water to superheat , particularly in a ceramic or glass container . This means that there is a certain risk that the water will " jump out " at you once you add something to it or put a spoon in . Additionally , most kettles have more power than the average microwave , so the kettle is probably faster to boil water .
Salt dissolves in water . Brining is simply the process of soaking something in a saline solution so that either it absorbs saltwater , or the salinity of the pre-existing water approaches equilibrium with that of the brine . The end state is just a lot of water , some on/inside the meat and some outside , all with approximately the same salinity . If you roast the result , you 're evaporating most of the water but keeping the salt . If you boil it , then you 're just reversing the brining process you followed in the first place , by diluting whatever salt ( not to mention any other minerals/flavour ) it has . The salt in a brined chicken is not reacting with the meat , it 's just dissolved in the water ( which is in/on the meat ) . Give it a good enough " rinse " and the salt water will be gone .
I think you 're misunderstanding the claim slightly . You do not heat an already pureed soup , you puree and heat in one step . You can indeed make a hot soup from cold ingredients using certain high end blenders . The only one I 've verified this with is the vita-mix . To do this , you put your ingredients in to the blender , turn it on , and let it run about 5 minutes . The friction from the blades heats the soup while chopping the ingredients . The soup will get piping hot . Why would you do it ? It 's easy . It takes about 2 mins to get the soup really smooth , so it 's 3 more minutes to get it hot . That 's faster than you would be able to do with a stove , although maybe slower than a microwave . Is it more efficient ? I do n't know , but I doubt the difference in electrical efficiency is really sufficient to drive a choice one way or the other . In terms of cleaning , you already need to clean the blender because you pureed the soup . There 's no additional cleaning to do if you cook it there too , versus additional cleaning for stove or microwave . And the blender is easy to clean as it 's one piece ; you just add soap and water and turn it on for 30 seconds , then rinse . Personally , I do not think this is " one of the main selling points " . It 's a neat trick , and it 's useful . However , I think that it 's more interesting as an indication of the blenders power . You can use these blenders to make exceptionally smooth soup , make peanut butter , properly crush ice for frozen drinks , etc. . They do this much better than a ' normal ' home blender , but just saying ' better ' probably would n't sell a lot of these things at 4x the price , so they focus on something that the standard home blender most certainly can not do .
This depends on a lot of things . The idea of preheating is that you want to get all the surfaces inside your oven ( walls , floor , door , racks ) up to the desired cooking temperature . This makes for more even temperatures throughout the oven , and gives a little thermal mass so you do n't lose ALL your heat when you open the door for a few seconds or put something cold in there . Then there 's the question of what you 're putting in the oven . An aluminum sheet with a few room temperature cookies on it wo n't pull the temperature in the oven down like a 25 pound turkey that 's 40F/5C inside . You want to be more careful to do a complete preheat if you 're going to be soaking up a lot of your starting heat . Our oven , which has a large baking stone in the bottom all the time , takes a while to get uniformly up to temperature , even after the oven says it 's preheated , because the stone does n't heat up as fast as the rest of the surfaces . It takes at least 20 minutes after the " I 'm fully heated " beep before the stone is fully up to temp . We have problems with things baking poorly if we do n't preheat for quite a while , but on the upside , if we put a cold roast in or open the door a lot , the temperature in the oven stays pretty high . If your oven is lightweight , flimsy or drafty , it may be as hot as it 's going to get the moment the preheat alert goes off . 45 minutes is probably a lot more preheat than you 'll need in almost any case . In some cases even 15 minutes is more than you need . It really depends on your oven and what you 're putting in .
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
From this <URL> The key to slicing and portioning foie is to treat it like a rich mousse-cake : Make sure to heat up your knife under running water in between every slice . A cold knife will catch and stick in the foie , causing it to tear or crumble . A hot knife will melt the fat as it goes through , leaving you with clean , smooth surfaces to sear .
Basic Physics of the System Bread rises ( as you probably know ) due to microorganisms , primarily yeast , converting sugars into CO ₂ + byproducts . The CO ₂ forms bubbles , stretching the gluten in the flour . In order for the bread to rise , the microorganisms must produce CO ₂ faster than it can escape from the dough . Graphed over time , the amount of CO ₂ produced would start at 0 , fairly quickly rise to its maximum ( as the yeast , etc. come back from dormancy ) , then slowly decrease , eventually to 0 ( as they run out of food and/or are overwhelmed by byproducts such as alcohol ) . The amount of gas escaping from the dough also changes over time . It must obviously start at 0 , and probably increases over time ( after all , there is more to escape ) , and eventually of course its all escaped and thus it must be 0 again , but I 'm not sure of its exact shape . So , a diagram : That 's the basic physics of the system . At some point , the bread must fall . ( Well , maybe in a 0-g environment it would shrink instead of fall , but ... ) How the Environment Matters The microorganisms are very sensitive to fairly small changes in their environment . In particular : Temperature . If your kitchen is 70 ° F and the author 's is 80 ° F , it could easily take twice as long . The lower the temperature , the slow the microorganisms go ( up to a point , once it gets too hot , they 're not happy either ) . Hydration . If your bread dough is lower hydration ( drier ) than the author 's , it 'll be slowed down again . The recipe is written in volume measures ( cups ) , as you know flour packs down . That leads to huge variations in how two different people measure it . Make sure to measure it how the author says to ( hopefully it specified somewhere in the book ) . Scoop-and-sweep vs. sift-and-sweep can easily be 25 % different . Preferably , spend $ 25 on a kitchen scale , and do your baking by weight . Salinity . Salt slows down yeast . If you happened to substitute table salt for kosher salt , and still measured out 1 1/2 tablespoons , you 've used more salt than the author wanted . A fair bit more . Age of your yeast . If your yeast is old ( and sometimes the packets in the store have been sitting for ages ) , it may not have the same potency as a fresh packet would . It 'll probably take longer ( but as long as it rises , it 'll likely be fine ) The times in the book could just be nonsense . Authors and editors do sometimes make mistakes . Other times they 're in a rush , and just take a guess . " Yeah , it was about two hours ... " The book could just be wrong . Also , generally speaking , slower leads to better flavor . So its not a bad thing . Summary Give it longer . Provided you 've covered it in plastic ( so it does n't dry out ) , it 'll eventually fall . Keep in mind that " fall " does n't mean it 'll return to its original size , just that it 'll fall back from its maximum size . The " or flattens on top " comment in your book is a pretty accurate description of what it looks like . Normally , while its rising , there is a dome shape on top , with the center as the highest point . When it starts falling , that dome vanishes , and may even invert ( as in , the center will be the lowest point ) . I 've made preferments that take upwards of 20 hours to fall . It will eventually happen . And when it takes forever , it 'll probably taste better .
I ca n't speak to specific chemicals/aromatics for mushrooms , but this kind of thing does happen with all kinds of food . The initial cooking is releasing aromatics that were previously bound up in the food somehow , so you quickly get some stronger flavors . But aromatic molecules are volatile ( that 's why you smell them ! ) and also generally more prone to breaking down , so as you cook longer , they escape , or are broken down into something else without so much flavor , leaving you with something milder . Think about onion , for example . When you first start sauteeing it , there 's a lot of really strong onion smell coming off , maybe even enough to make you cry if you 're prone to it . If you eat it then , it 'll still have plenty of sharp onion flavor . But as you cook longer , those flavors mellow out ; going to the extreme , slowly caramelized onions have no sharpness and very little onion flavor . I think the initial strengthening of flavor may be stronger with mushrooms because of their structure . They seem dry at first , with all the water bound up inside . But as you start to cook them , their structure breaks down and they quickly release a lot of water , and with it , those flavors .
Part one : Yes , put oil in first then put on a low/med heat . Generally cast iron should be heated gently , depending on your stove it should probably take about 5 minutes to get to a good temperature . The oil shouldnt evaporate - I 've never experienced this . As to the type of oil - I use various depending on circumstance vegetable or olive usually . Part two : I generally shake the pan gently - when the oil becomes more less viscous ( more runny ) then it is at a good temperature to start cooking . You can also put something like a small piece of onion or bread into the oil - if it starts bubbling and generally cooking then its good to go . Some people use a couple of drops of water to see when it spits but I dont like doing this partly due to the safety factor and also due to the fact itll splatter over the stove top . It depends a little on what you are cooking - if you are looking to brown some meat for example you 'd probably want it a little hotter than if you were just going to make vegetable soup .
What are the primary causes of this ? The steam and other hot gasses that were puffing the cookies up either escapes or condenses . Without heat to create more steam , the cookies deflate . You get exactly the same effect with bread , quiches , and other baked goods . You can hear bread start to make a crackling sound almost as soon as it comes out of the oven , and the sound continues for some minutes until the bread has cooled a bit . Quiches are always quite puffy looking when they 're in the oven , but they start to shrink a bit as they cool . If you want your cookies to shrink less , you might try cooking them at a slightly higher temperature , or cooking them a bit longer , or perhaps not chilling them so much prior to baking . Bumping up the amount of egg white in the cookie may help , too . The idea is to get the structure of the cookie to set a bit more by the time you remove the cookies from the oven . That will , of course , cause the cookies to be less chewy and more crunchy .
Sirloin steak does n't have a huge amount of collegen , which is why it 's traditionally cooked over high heat for as short a period of time as possible . If I were you I 'd be more worried about the meat become unpleasantly mushy if left in the bath for too long . I would just use the Douglas Baldwin <URL> for bringing the meat up to the required temperature :
<URL> tells us this is a myth : Many tea companies , and even some reputable entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture , have made misleading generalizations about the caffeine content of broad classes of tea . It is a widespread myth that black tea contains more caffeine than green tea , and another myth that white tea contains the least caffeine of all teas . They indicate that brewing method is the main determiner of caffeine levels in the brewed tea . The source article goes on to cite various credible scientific sources , which raise the credibility of this assertion . Unfortunately , most of their links have gone bad , which makes it harder to check the background science . This <URL> does indicate slightly different levels , but that is likely to be a result of different brewing details across tea types rather than fundamental to the tea plant itself .
I agree with Brendan 's answer above . Having also made freezer burritos ahead of time , I find that it helps if I put some source of re-heatable ' liquid ' in the wrap while preparing them ( e.g. salsa , not sour cream , for example ) . It might have something to do with steaming the food instead of directly heating it , maybe ? Let me know if that helps .
Marshmallows expand so much because the water in them becomes steam , and gas takes up a LOT more volume than liquid . Specifically , 1 mL of water becomes ~ 1.36 LITERS of vapor , before it gets heated further . That 's 1000-fold expansion , before you add additional expansion as the gas is heated . Marshmallows do n't have all that much water content , but when it 's trapped in a stretchy gelatin matrix that holds gas readily , it only takes a bit to blow the whole thing up like a balloon . You are correct that the gas expansion on its own is insufficient ; unless I 've badly muddled my calculations , gas expansion from 20C to ~ 150C ( caramelization temperature ) will increase the gas volume by under 50 % .
end question
start question
How does aging affect Gouda cheese ?
Aged gouda is my favorite cheese ! Beemster Classic Aged is like a firmer , creamy , sweet , slightly sharp , nutty version of regular gouda . I 've never had a 5 year , but 2 year aged gouda ( like Beemster xo ) is kind of like a creamy parmigiano but not as hard ... nutty , caramel/toffee flavors with random crunchy tyrosine bits . I would expect the 5 year to be comparable in flavor to Parmigiano with more creaminess and a less crumbly texture due to the fact that gouda is made with whole milk while Parmigiano is made with partially skimmed milk . Truthfully , it rarely lasts long enough for me to use it in anything ... it is the perfect cheese to eat by itself or with apple , pear , or almonds . You can basically use them anywhere you would use a sharp cheddar or parmigiano .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
There are dozens if not hundreds of kinds of cheese in the world . Several kinds of non-shelf-stable cheese do not contain any added salt , just the natural salt content of the milk . Quark is a prominent example , paneer can also be made without salt . Of course paneer will reflect the taste of the acid that was used , for example lemon juice - it is up to you whether you consider it to be a seasoning or not . Cheeses that have a ripening time need salt for conservation purposes , so they are all salted . If you want to taste a low-salt cheese of this type , try Emmentaler - the traditional ones go as low as 0.5 % salt , and I am not even sure if this is added or not , so maybe it does n't even fall under your definition of " seasoned " . In addition , there are cheeses which also contain seasoning specifically meant to change their taste , for example wild garlic cheese or pepper cheese . These are added to the curds before pressing . Other types of cheese , like some cream cheeses or American cheeses , have seasoning added in an additional processing step . The seasoning in this step is highly varied , and can include not only the traditional herbs but also things like fungi or bacon pieces . And quarks are frequently seasoned with fruit at this step . So , there is a huge variety , and you can have seasoned or unseasoned cheese as you prefer .
According to the <URL> Domino 's uses a blend of Mozzarella , American , Cheddar , Feta , Parmesan , and Provolone Cheeses . Somebody , apparently , with similar concerns asked Domino 's and <URL> : excerpt from letter , emphasis added : Domino 's Pizza Diced Cheese for Pizza is a specially produced cheese made exclusively for our use . It is a natural dairy product , produced from cultured , pasteurized milk , rennet ; and salts of calcium and/or sodium . The type of rennet used in the production of this cheese is restricted to a microbial-based rennet or a genetically-engineered rennet . Animal derived rennets will not be allowed . As far as the other cheeses ( Cheddar , Parmesan , Provolone , etc. ) , Domino 's does not specify the source of rennet used in these products . They may or may not contain animal rennet . This depends on the supplier 's current source and is always subject to change without notification to Domino 's Pizza .
Cooking causes certain chemical reactions within the food being cooked , many of which produce ( and consume ) compounds which have various flavours . I do n't know the real specifics , but I can outline why your two cases are different , and you can verify it visually . If you take a potato , cut it up and boil it , it stays pale . The texture changes to become much nicer to eat , and the flavour loses that raw starchiness that raw potato has ( ever eaten raw potato ? I do n't recommend it ... ) If you take that same potato ( or , for realism 's sake , a very similar potato ) and cut it up and put it on a baking tray and put it in the oven to roast , what you get out has golden brown edges and a different texture , and a bit of a skin over the surface . Why ? Ovens apply heat differently . Inside your oven is air at 200 degrees C or so . This is much hotter than the water in a saucepan ( which caps out at 100C at sea level unless it 's a pressure cooker ) . So the first potential difference is temperature - some reactions simply do not happen at the temperature you can achieve while boiling . The second difference is the environment . If a reaction relies on one of the gases in the atmosphere to happen ( chances are it 's oxygen ) , this is not going to be the same when the food 's submerged in water containing far less oxygen than the air does . So when you roast your squash in the oven , you 're allowing reactions to happen which can not happen if you boil it , thus leading to different flavours . Particularly relevant is the Maillard reaction , which requires a kind of fat and sugar and lots and lots of heat , and happens when you brown meat in the frying pan , or in onions being roasted in a hot oven . It 's a complicated business that has many different possible end products , some of which can then react further to make different ones again ... read about it on Wikipedia if you 're interested in the details . The point is that there is no way to get those flavour compounds at temperatures too low for the reaction to happen - Maillard requires about 155C , well over the boiling point of water at sea level . There 's also caramelisation , which is a different flavour-producing reaction . I guarantee that if you make two batches of soup , boiling one and roasting the other , you 'll find that the roasted one tastes quite different . That does n't mean you ca n't make nice soup by boiling raw vegetables ( I 've done it ) , but you ca n't make the same soup .
I 've always found sliding in pizza occurs when the moisture in the layers is too different . The cheese is too dry and so it sticks together , the sauce is too wet and so it slides ( the toppings can be either ) . If everything is a bit drier , it sticks together well and can be bitten apart . If everything is a bit moister , it tends to slide apart more easily and wo n't tug on the rest of the slice that much . As for why the same ingredients or same brands can sometimes stick , and sometimes not - moisture is n't as tightly controlled as some of the other variables . Cheese in particular can have different levels of moisture from variables in how it was stored - the ice crystals driven off of ( or scraped back onto ) frozen pizza , or whether a bag of shredded mozzarella breaks into fluffy dry strands or packs into moist clumps in the bag ... or tries to melt back into a solid block . Or the settling of sauce , if the denser clumps sink and the thinner liquids end up closer to the top , the first pizza and the last might have subtly different amounts of liquid to deal with . The level of moisture might also be related to other variables being not so tightly controlled - a little bit more or less sauce or cheese ( like , teaspoon-ish ) might not be noticed in even professional contexts , or something like the proportion of longer strands to little crumbs of cheese in even the same amount might affect how they interact with each other on a pizza . the simplest way to fix it is mechanically - mixing part of the cheese into the sauce . This helps add moisture to the cheese , since it is coated in the sauce , and helps dry the sauce ( less cheese on top means the sauce is more exposed ) . The cheese and sauce stick better to each other for being slightly intermixed , and stick better to the crust for being a bit more homogeneous . This has the benefit of not needing to change proportions , if you like a certain ratio . Toppings , I have always found , are better being partly submerged under the cheese and through the sauce , since they have access to both the oven 's heat for browning , and the moisture from the sauce so they do n't dry out . It also helps mechanically prevent sliding , interrupting the layers and providing gaps and anchors ( depending on topping and relative moisture ) . If dealing with a frozen pizza , particularly one I 'm adding toppings to , I would sprinkle drops of water on top to make sure the whole thing is moist . If the cheese dries out , it also prevents moisture from leaving the sauce ... so more likely leading to slipping . If it stays moist , the problem is much less and it mixes with the sauce better on its own - and its easier to add moisture than remove it . As for delivery pizza , there 's no fix I know of , since it 's already made and ready . Ah , well , it tastes good anyway , and it 's convenient enough to put up with occasional mishaps .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
I think what 's really happening here is mostly physics , rather than any magical reaction between the meat and the " velvet " ( i.e. egg and cornstarch ; I 'm going to use this term for brevity ) . The largest effect is that the velvet adds a thin , clingy coating to the outside of the meat . When introduced to heat , that 's providing a barrier to the movement of thermal energy into the meat proteins . The proteins in the egg are denaturing , the starches are gelatinizing , and that absorbs some of the energy that would otherwise have gone into your meat . The presence of sheer additional mass from the velvet also means that it simply takes more energy to raise the overall temperature . This means that the temperature increases more slowly , and can be better controlled ( sort of like sous vide cooking ) . As the starch gelatinizes , it 's also forming a moisture-resistant barrier around the outside of the meat . That could very possibly prevent moisture from leaking out of the meat as it 's squeezed out of cells with denaturing proteins . Ordinarily it would leak out into your poaching liquid ( or wok if you 're stir-frying , where it would rapidly boil off ) but now it 's trapped in the pieces of meat . This is also somewhat analogous to sous vide cooking , or maybe to poaching in oil - the food being cooked stays moist , because the water is trapped inside ( by a bag in sous vide , by hydrophobic oil in oil-poaching ) and has nowhere to go . Another factor is the very gentle cooking being done , in a barely-simmering water bath for a short period of time . This is cooking the meat just up to the point of doneness , by doing so at a rather low temperature ( say 210 F or so , compared to 500 F or higher for a properly hot wok ) and only very briefly , with the velvet coating for additional thermal protection . After that , the meat does n't really need to be cooked much at all - it can be tossed into a nearly finished stir-fry just to the point of being re-heated . That seems to be why <URL> tosses out this interesting comment : The meat remains soft and tender . ( You 've probably noticed in Cantonese restaurants that stir-fried meat is almost never browned or seared . ) I had n't given it much thought before now , but that seems to match my experience in good Chinese restaurants , at least with certain dishes . Contrasting this with stir-frying sans-velvet , think about a browned piece of meat : the surface is covered with a delicious Maillard-browned crust , but those proteins have also been cooked to the point of losing their moisture . Even if the interior of the meat is moist , the outside 's been dried , literally to a crisp . With velveted meat , that 's not the case - each entire piece remains moist , and there 's no browned , crunchy layer . I 'll be the first to admit that much of this is conjecture , but I think it provides a reasonable explanation for some of the processes that keep velveted meat moist . Might be interesting to dig up some scientific references on the thermal gradients of proteins vs. starches - I 'll see what I can find .
Citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate are often used in processed cheese as emulsifier . These <URL> improve the protein 's swelling capacity and emulsification and thus inhibits the leakage of water or fat from the product ( forms <URL> ) . Some salts are also acid buffers . 1 In this <URL> ( in German , but chemical names are quite similiar to the Engish ones ) is a list of possible substitutes of citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate . Or just look <URL> ( in English ) for E 325 , E 326 , E 327 , E 331 , E 332 , E 333 , E 339 , E 340 , E 341 , E 450 , E 451 , E 452 . The receipe of the cheese sauce has the <URL> 2 . 1 Source : <URL> My bad attempt to translate this article :-\ 2 " Processed cheese [ ... ] is a food product made from cheese ( and sometimes other , unfermented , dairy by-product ingredients ) ; plus emulsifiers [ note from me : the mentioned salts ] , saturated vegetable oils , extra salt , food colorings , and/or whey [ note from me : or watery liquids like water or milk ] or sugar . "
You can use small amounts of cheddar mixed with the other cheeses . But you 'd be disappointed in the results if you tried to use it as the main or only cheese on the pizza . Cheddar cheese does n't tolerate sustained , high heat as well as some other cheeses . It can scorch , which tastes and smells bad , and/or the fats can separate from the solids as a yellowish oil . The sharper the cheese is , the less well it will tolerate heat .
The most common reason for leakage with Cordon Bleu Chicken is that the packets are too thick , which makes it impossible to get a perfect fold ; you need to pound the breasts very thin - less than 1/2 " , maybe a little more than 1/4 " . The other " trick " is to make a small cut along the folded edge of the breast after you fold and seal the packets , which essentially makes it almost like a sandwich ; the top and bottom parts can move independently and you do n't have tension trying to pull the top piece away . Just do n't cut so deep that you cause an immediate leak ; if you 've pounded the breast to 1/3 " thickness , then your cut should be no more than about 1/8 " . If you do it this way , you should n't even need to use toothpicks ; I never do , and I have n't sprung a single leak in my last 20 or so preparations .
Well , picking the best wine to complement a given cheese -- or vice-versa -- is a bit complex to fix into a stackexchange answer . I recommend Janet Fletcher 's book <URL> if you 're really serious about this . However , picking a wine which goes OK with the cheese is a lot easier . Here 's a few tips based on my personal experience throwing wine &amp; cheese parties : Robust red wines ( Cabernet , Zinfandel , Syrah ) complement no cheeses I know of ; they swamp the taste of the cheese . Fresh , lower-fat cheeses ( chevre , ricotta , Nicasio 's Foggy Morning ) go well with light &amp; sweet white wines , like a riesling or gewurtztraminer . Brie goes well with fortified wines , like manzanilla or muscat . Most hard aged cheeses ( manchego , cheddar , asiago ) go well with light , acidic reds like a lighter grenache , pinot noir , or tempranillo . Blue cheese generally wants a very sweet fortified wine , like a ruby port or late harvest zinfandel . Swiss-type cheeses ( emmenthaler , jarlesberg , St. George , etc. ) work well with medium white wines , like sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay . Really , what you 're trying to do is to have some complementary and some contrasting flavors in the wine as in the cheese . And generally you want to err on the side of milder wines unless the flavor of the cheese is very strong , since it 's too easy for the wine to wash out most of the cheese flavor . The other fun thing to do is pair cheeses up with wines from the same culture . Manchego with sherry and almonds , Roquefort with sancerre and French bread , pecorino sardo with barbera , cheddar with brown ale . Hope that helps some .
Umami is the result of glutamic acid ( ions ) getting in touch with the tongue . Glutamic acid in fish sauce is the result of a fermentation process , which involves bacteria doing the work of breaking down fish components . Glutamic acid easily dissolves in water though . This is after all , how it was detected millennia ago and centuries ago verified by creating glutamic acid salts : Cooking seaweed in water and boiling the result down . The wakame is added due to its natural content of glutamic acid . There is n't anything special the pineapple can/has do to it that regular water ca n't do . Therefore the answer is : No , the purpose of the pineapple is not to increase the glutamic acid of the substitute .
Cheap cheese is , as others have explained , cheap for a reason . You should be able to find old/extra old ( AKA " sharp " / " extra sharp " ) cheddar cheese in the cheap section , which makes a reasonably good starting point - this cheese does have some flavour . Daniel says he simmers the milk ; I generally start with evaporated milk , which is even more economical than regular milk and keeps in the pantry forever . Although I would not use evaporated milk in just any recipe calling for milk , it happens to work quite well for Mac 'n Cheese . Other common additions to help offset the lack of flavour in poorly-aged cheeses are : Salt . Remember , salt is essentially a flavour enhancer and will bring out the natural taste of any other ingredient . Mustard . Prepared mustard is OK , but concentrated mustard made from dry mustard and a small amount of water is even better , so you can avoid having to add too much liquid . This does n't enhance the flavour of the cheese , but it does share some of the " sharpness " associated with cheddar and makes a good complement . As a bonus , it also acts as a natural emulsifier for the sauce , helping to minimize separation and curdling . Ground cayenne or red pepper . Although most people probably do n't associate Mac 'n Cheese with piquant , a small amount of this wo n't make the sauce noticeably spicy , but it will add a bit of the same " kick " you get with very old cheese . If all else fails , my " secret weapon " for Mac 'n Cheese is - not kidding - the sauce base from Kraft Dinner ( AKA Kraft Macaroni and Cheese Dinner for you Yankees ) , especially if you can get the " extra sharp " version . This stuff is dirt cheap ( often just 99 cents for a package ) and before you dismiss this as heresy , keep in mind that the idea is not to use the whole thing . Just a teaspoon or two to enhance your homemade sauce . If you do n't approve of such shortcuts then you should n't be buying cheap cheese in the first place , right ? So there you have it . Try some or all of the above ; I 'm sure you 'll end up with something that 's at least acceptable , if not great .
Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking , is very detailed in his explanation of how cheese " works " . He describes three stages . In the first stage , lactic acid bacteria convert milk sugar into lactic acid . In the second stage , which overlaps with the first one , rennet ( an extract of calf stomach - or , to be more precise , chymosin , a protein found in this extract and now also obtainable from yeasts and the like ) curdles the casein proteins and watery whey is drained from the concentrated curds . And finally , in the third stage , the cheese ripens , and a whole host of different enzymes do all sorts of things to flavour and texture . According to McGee , Acid and Rennet form very different kinds of curd structures -- acid a fine , fragile gel , rennet a coarse but robust , rubbery one -- so their relative contributions , and how quickly they act , help determine the ultimate texture of the cheese . He goes on to describe how mostly acid coagulation leads to softer cheeses and mostly rennet-based coagulation leads to firmer curds and harder cheeses . Draining of the whey also strongly affects the final texture , as Sobachatina points out in <URL> . Pressing firmly expels much whey and thus leads to a harder cheese ; softer cheeses are just allowed to drain some whey by gravity . But there 's another important factor here : heat . Some cheeses are " cooked " in their whey at this stage , to a temperature as high as 55C ( 130F ) for a rock-hard Parmesan or about 38C ( 100F ) for a somewhat softer Tommes , and this expels even more whey from the curd particles ( and , of course , also affects flavour ) . At this stage , salt is also added . Salt draws some moisture out of the curds as well and is a catalyst for the denaturing of casein , thus reinforcing the protein structure . McGee also discusses aging of cheese at some length , but he does n't really touch on the effect of aging on the structure of cheese . That effect is certainly there ; a very young Gouda cheese is almost as soft as a Camembert , whereas a very old one gets close to Parmesan hardness ( if it does n't crumble to dust ) . I imagine that this is due to some moisture escaping the cheese , but also due to the fact that the protein networks keep growing more and more interconnected as the cheese ripens .
This is an unwise practice . While pure fat is actually fairly stable , you do n't know how much residual water and other components remain in your rendered fat . You should collect it and refrigerate it ( it should last at least a week , probably much longer in practice ) in an sealed and air tight container ( to minimize rancidity ) if you intend to reuse it . Otherwise , you should discard it immediately . For the cannonical answer and reasoning , see : <URL>
I freeze cheese all the time , mostly mozzarella . It keeps longer . ( If I keep mozzarella or similar cheeses too long in the fridge it gets moldy , often even before its expiration date . ) However , I usually use frozen cheese only for cooking - i.e. if it 's going to be melted . Freezing cheese does change the texture . Parmesan , though , being a hard , aged cheese would probably be less affected by freezing . However , on the same token , aged cheeses keep very nicely in the fridge , so I would n't see much benefit in freezing it .
To answer this question we should turn to the oracle : <URL> The relevant quote is : " Nothing affects a cookie 's texture more than the melting characteristics of its fat . Butter has a sharp melting point meaning that , uh , just a few degrees difference between a solid and liquid states . So since conversion occurs at a relatively low temperature , the resulting batter spreads prior to setting . " The problem is that shortening melts at a higher temperature than butter and so cookies made with shortening typically rise more than butter made cookies . Thus your rising problems are probably not caused by the type of fat . I suspect that the temperature of your fat might be causing the problem . If your butter came from the fridge and the shortening was room temperature then the shortening cookies would melt faster and rise less .
Note : This answer goes in a bit more detail than necessary to answer the question . If you truly only care about the hydration , please only read " Water/flour ratio " and " Flavor of the bread " . I have added the other information as well since the effects are similar to that of a change in hydration . I 've frequently baked ( about once to twice a week ) with sourdough for 4 years now . I 'm not a professional . The only thing I can take a bit of pride in is that a professional baker who tested a loaf of my sourdough bread told me that it 's " fantastic , considering the little possibilities available to control the conditions the sourdough and loaf are exposed to at home " . So while far from perfect , I 'd consider my sourdough breads and knowledge pretty good . Most of what I 'm writing now was first read on the internet somewhere and confirmed through testing it with my own sourdough culture ( I 'm still using the same one I started out with ) . Apart from the flour you use , there are several factors that affect the taste of the resulting bread : Temperature This has , in my experience , the biggest impact on the taste . The following rules apply : Anything over 40 ° C is deadly to the microbes in your sourdough . Lower temperature : More acetic acid , less lactic acid , yeasts develop more slowly . Higher temperature : More lactic acid , less acetic acid , yeasts develop more quickly . Lactic acid bacteria prefer temperatures at around 30-35 ° C Yeasts like temperatures around 25 ° C best Note : Your sourdough can be 1-2 ° C warmer than the environment due to microbial activity . That can be important to keep in mind . Water/flour ratio Most of the time , people use a ratio of 1:1 water/flour for the sourdough and that will give you good results , but you can play around with that ratio to change the taste to your liking : Lower water content causes more acetic acid production and less developed yeasts Higher water content will make it easier for the yeasts to grow and increase the lactic acid content I 've found that having more than 1.5 times the amount of water compared to the flour will hardly have any effect on the dough anymore and I 'd recommend stirring the dough every couple of hours with that much water . On single staged sourdough , using less than 0.75 times the water compared to the flour is also not a good idea and you will probably be required to add yeast in the bread dough . Salt and oil Adding these , especially salt , to the sourdough already will have a considerable impact on the sourdough taste . A sourdough made with salt in it will taste quite different from one without it . I 'm not quite sure about why this is , but it may have something to do with the yeasts growing more slowly ( more information below ) . Both salt and oil will slow down the growth of the yeasts , but do n't have much of an effect on the lactic acid bacteria . Adding oil mainly affects the mechanical properties of the dough ( it will be softer and more ductile ) . It also helps with the structure of the bread ( the air bubbles in the bread will be smaller and more uniformly distributed ) , especially in the presence of an emulsifyer ( lard is both fat and an emulsifyer , so it works well in this regard ) . For this reason , it does n't make much sense to add it to the sourdough already . Of course , if the fat is n't tasteless , it will also add to the taste of the bread ( I love using natural olive oil in my wheat breads ) . Flavor of the bread Sourdough actually has some pretty complicated chemistry that I know little about . However , here are some effects that I do know : Lactic acid will give your bread a mild , sour taste . This works very well for wheat breads . Acetic acid gives you a stronger , more sour taste ( very noticable while eating ) . This works great for rye breads The amount of yeast in your sourdough also has a big impact on the smell and taste of the bread . Yeast is beneficial to the bread not only for it 's leavening properties . Apart from CO2 , it also produces ethanol , which will esterify the lactic acid to ethyl lactate over time , which in turn has a strong flavor . Okay I think that 's it . I hope this helps you .
With kale crisps you are ideally trying to dehydrate instead of baking . This saves the chlorphyll from degradation . Depending on your green/veg chlorophyll starts to degrade between 100F-185F ( 40C-85C ) . Now , 220F-240F ( 100C-120C ) is as low as most domestic ovens go . However , if you are able to use a lower temprature , that would give you a greener result and a cleaner flavour . But it will take longer to crisp as you lower the temprature . Using a dehydrator would be ideal , running at around 140F ( 60C ) . Think of dryed fruit , herbs or even tomatoes , they are almost never baked , but rather dehydrated . You 'll also find that commercial kale crisps use a very low temprature and they are promoted by it as it keeps nutrients intact and preserves chlorophyll . A tip if you have to use your oven , keep checking and take them out before they crisp up completely . As they cool , the residual heat will dehydrate them a touch more .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of a pressure cooker in a rice cooker ?
The usual purpose of pressure in pressure cookers is that they can heat water to > 100 ° C without it starting to boil , thereby reducing cooking time .
It will be safe and edible . It might not be quite as good . Part of the appeal of slow cookers is just the convenience of leaving them unattended . The other appeal is low-slow cooking that blends flavors and melts connective tissue without burning anything . Meat Cooking things faster and hotter will not make the meat as tender as it would be - but it will still be cooked . If it is in small pieces the difference will not be as noticeable . Obviously ground meat would be the same regardless of cooking time . Beans ( if you believe in beans in chili ) 4 hours will be enough time to soften soaked beans . I 'd say this is the biggest risk . Undercooked beans are n't fun to eat . Soaked beans , canned beans , or no beans make this a non-issue . Flavor melding Chili benefits from time . Beans soak up flavors . Chili and onion balance out through the sauce . I 'll often make my chili a day in advance of serving it because it is so much better the next day . You 're going to get less time so some of this will be lost .
Well in Chinese cooking we use a wide variety actually . Typically speaking ... Medium or Long Grain Rice White Rice Fried Rice Sweet Rice or Glutinous Rice Sticky Rice ( You commonly see this at Dim Sum places in the sticky rice dishes wrapped in lotus leaves , among other places . ) There are others of course , but those are the common ones you 'll find since you were asking about Chinese Takeout . The shorter the grain , the more " sticky " it will be . However , that does n't mean that long grain rice should come out grainy either . I suppose different restaurants will do it differently , around here they generally use long grain rice for " white rice " . This is how my mother taught me to make rice : Wash Rice a few times till there is n't any more murkiness . Add water till it reaches your first knuckle on your pointer finger when the tip is just barely touching the rice ( should generally work for any amount of rice ) . Bring to boil , turn to simmer . Check back in 10 to 15 minutes If the water is mostly gone , and it is n't at the texture you like , you can always add a bit more water . Let it sit for a few minutes after the heat is off . In China , you 'll find all different grains . I 've seen both short and long grains , and have seen plain white , long grain rice served as well .
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company ( and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market 's expectations ) , the measurement is 1-gou , slightly more than 180ml , which , by no coincidence , is also the typical measure of a wooden sake , cup , and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size ( approximately 1.8 l ) <URL> It turns out that this amount , 1 gou of dried rice , neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice . In practice , most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day ; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes . There are other measurements that derive from the gou ( or perhaps the other way around ) , such as the koku , which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year . This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push ; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries . It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people . Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water : It 's worth noting that you do n't need perfect precision for the amount of water , as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes . I ca n't remember the exact scientific principle behind it , but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure . Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail . It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan ( though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom ) . ( Some types of rice do prefer more water than others , but within a single type , you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio )
The baking powder undergoes a chemical reaction which produces small gas bubbles in the batter . The bubbles break up the batter coating ( sort of like the geometry inside a sponge ) so you wind up with a mass of little holes each surrounded by a thin layer of bready material , and it all fries up airy , light and crispy ; instead of one thick , dense , hard shell of cooked paste around your cauliflower bits .
It is also like Schrodinger 's Cat in the sense that hopefully whatever is inside is not still alive . But seriously : the main thing is time . You start with the recommendations from your manufacturer ( since all cookers vary somewhat in terms of pressure and therefore temperature ) and then keep good notes as to whether you prefer slightly more or less time . For example , I 've learned that with my cooker , if I 'm making pinto beans without soaking , for whole beans I like about 35 minutes , but if I 'm going to puree them , 40 is better .
I am guessing you have a model which seals tightly and thus is a type of pressure cooker . Turbo mode no doubt essentially pressure cooks the rice so that it can reach temperatures above 212 F / 100 C and thus cook faster . ( The Cuckoo product line seems to have this as a distinguishing feature . ) There really is no downside to pressure cooking grains or legumes from a culinary perspective , and the modern equipment is quite safe .
I do think there is a maximum to the duration of stewing a cut of beef . There is in my opinion such a thing as too tender and soft . If you plan to cook the meat as one large chunk you will have to add a little to your normal stewing time , but I would not go as high as 15 hours . Cooking and re-heating is quite an interesting option though , as quite a few dishes benefit from this in terms of flavour . Perhaps a <URL> on this subject , or a <URL> would be of interest to you . For me , the smaller the size of your chunks of meat , the more you should stick to your normal stewing time of 8 hours and the more you could consider making it a day early to enhance the taste .
There really are a couple separate issues that come together here : What is collagen to gelatin conversion ? When collagen converts to gelatin , it is not melting ( which is the same type of molecule , just as ice and liquid water are the same thing ) . Instead , it is being hydrated which is a chemical conversion process , where water is actually being added into the overall structure of the protein molecule , converting it into a different protein molecule . This does not happen just because of temperature , but rather because a water molecule with the right level of energy to power the process ( that is , moving fast enough ) hits the collagen molecule at the exactly proper spot to interact with it and become part of the molecule . The new molecule is called gelatin . Why does a pressure cooker facilitate effectively higher temperatures than an oven ? Most foods contain a great deal of water . On of the fundamental properties of water is that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to convert it from liquid water just at the boiling point ( 100 C / 212 F at sea level pressure ) to vapor just at the same temperature . This is called the <URL> . When a food containing water is heated in air at normal pressure , even if the air temperature is much hotter than the boiling point of water , the surface of the food can not get hotter than the boiling point , because any additional energy goes into converting the water into steam , and drying the surface . Only once the surface is dry can browning and other processes that happen above 100 C begin . However , in the inside of the food , which is still wet , the temperature continues to never be able to exceed the boiling point . Very few foods are normally cooked to the point where the interiors are dry enough to get hotter than this . In a pressure cooker , the boiling point of water is higher once the pressure is achieved ( for brevity , I will not discuss why this is so ) . For example , at 15 bar ( typical of a pressure cooker , one additional atmosphere of pressure above normal sea level pressure ) , water will not boil until about 250 F / 121 C . This permits both the surface and the interior of the food to reach higher temperatures than at normal pressure . Some cooking processes are accelerated due to this difference . Why does collagen convert faster ? Collagen conversion to gelatin is a time/temperature dependent process . That is , the higher the temperature ( within reasonable limits , before it burns or decomposes otherwise ) , the faster the conversion . Collagen will convert to gelatin at 140 F , but it will take literally several days . At 170 - 180 F ( typical internal temperatures in sea level braising ) , it takes several hours . In a pressure cooker , this time can be reduced , because the internal temperature can go higher than it can at sea level temperature . The reason for this is that collagen to gelatin conversion is a stochastic process . What this means is that it is essentially random . As a gross over simplification , imagine that the collagen molecule is a giant molecule ( it is ) with a button on it . All of the water molecules are moving around randomly , bouncing off one another . The higher the temperature , the faster they move on average . That is , at a low temperature , most molecules are moving relatively slowly , but some are almost stopped , and a very few are very fast . At a higher temperature , they move faster on average , and a slightly larger number are moving relatively very fast . Now imagine that the button will not be pressed until a water molecule happens to hit it while going fast enough to hit the button hard enough . The higher the temperature , the less time it will take for this to happen on average , because more of the water molecules are moving fast . Take this process over many , many , many collagen molecules , and you have the time/temperature conversion curve : the hotter the temperature , the faster the conversion overall . Conclusion Collagen to gelatin conversion is faster in a pressure cooker because the internal temperature of the food gets higher than is possible at atmospheric pressure , and this higher temperature speeds the stochastic gelatinization process .
Volume Volume is usually the primarily advertised statistic for rice cookers . This indicates the volume of cooked rice that can be prepared in one cycle . Common sizes include 5.5 cups and 10 cups . 5.5 cups is completely adequate for a family of five people for a single meal . Bowl quality Bowls in entry-level models are typically aluminum . Higher end models will be stainless steel . The same heating properties present in pans are relevant here . Aluminum heats quickly , and unevenly . Steel provides a more even heat . Also of concern is the interior of the bowl . Nearly all bowls have a non-stick coating of varying quality . I 've seen the coating start to flake off within a handful of uses on the cheaper rice makers . Higher end bowls can have a durable coating that lasts years or longer . Cooking logic The simplest and cheapest rice makers will have basic static logic . You put rice in , push a button , and the logic simply applies X amount of heat for Y minutes . Higher end models also have additional functions including : Presets for multiple varieties of rice Delayed/scheduled cooking ( like a slow cooker ) Keep warm functionality Digital displays Elapsed/remaining time displayed Dynamic monitoring and adjustment of temperature/humidity Cooking/Heating method Most rice makers use a simple coiled electric heating element located under the bowl . This is a major cause of overcooked/browned/burnt parts where the rice contacts the heated area . This is exacerbated by cheaper aluminum bowls . Higher end rice makers use induction heating . Induction is a rapidly alternating magnetic field which uses the entire bowl as the heating element . This heats much more evenly and is far less likely ( almost impossible ) to burn the rice . The highest end rice makers add pressure cooking capabilities . Pressure cooked rice purportedly is softer , and retains softness longer than regular cooked rice . Brand &amp; price This is probably the most important . In my experience , you actually get what you pay for . Without fail every American brand rice maker ( presumably made in China ) I 've used has been atrocious . The most positive thing I can say about one is " it worked great for the first batch " . There is one Japanese manufacturer that stands out from the pack : <URL> . I can not overstate how amazing their product is . It literally just works , every time . I received the <URL> as a gift over two years ago . I have used the hell out of this thing and have never had a less than perfect batch of rice .
Sauteed onions can provide both caramel flavors ( from the sugars in the onions ) and <URL> , depending on how they are sauteed . Thus onions can supply a range of " umami " flavors for soup which otherwise you need to get through roasting animal bones and other tissue ( e.g. brown veal stock ) . Of course , even beef stocks often add onion as well for extra flavor . As an extreme example of this , I often prepare a vegetarian French Onion soup using a meat-free broth made entirely from onions , onion skins , and cheese rind . Blind tasters often fail to distinguish it from a store-bought beef stock . You can get a lot of the same flavors from combinations of other browned vegetables , but onions neatly supply a perfect package of flavor compounds in one inexpensive , long-keeping root vegetable . Why use anything else ?
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
In a small toaster oven , using a pizza stone is likely to be a tradeoff : Toasting -- counter-productive , because it will shield the bottom of the bread ( or other item ) from the direct radiative heat from the bottom elements ; you would want to remove the stone for this use . Broiling ( or as it is called in the British parlance if I understand correctly , grilling ) -- Probably not a good idea . In a full sized oven , the stone would be left far enough from the heating elements that it would not be subject to intense radiative heat . In a toaster oven , it might be too close to the elements when the oven is used this way , so might be subject to cracking due to a higher temperature gradient and uneven thermal expansion . General baking -- will require a longer a pre-heating period for the oven/stone to come up to temperature , but once at temperature , will provide a buffering effect for more even heating . Convenience -- in full sized ovens , people often leave the stone in all of the time , and cook on a different rack if they do n't want direct contact with the stone . This may or may not be possible or convenient in a toaster oven , so you may be constantly removing or putting back the stone based on your current use Note that all of the above is just reasoning based on known facts ; I have n't tried a pizza stone in a toaster oven , and would n't do so , as they have a generally low thermal mass . I tend to think of them as tools for toasting and reheating , not for primary cooking , baking , or roasting .
Fix Compacted Flour . Flour will compact over time ( and during shipment ) . You could sift the flour to fluff it back up . Or , you could just stir it before measuring and be sure to spoon the flour into your measuring cup in order to get a correct volume measurement . Remove Unwanted Material . Yes , sifting would also remove larger pieces or bits of chaff . It would also remove insects . However , neither of these are problems with modern store-bought flour . If you grind your own flour ( my sister-in-law does this ) , then you may still want to sift it , though . Mix Ingredients Together . Sifting can also be used to mix other dry ingredients into flour . I bake quite a bit , though , and I 've never had a problem with just using a spoon or whisk to mix dry ingredients together . In summary : do n't bother . Just use good measuring techniques and stir your ingredients together well . No one likes a lump of baking powder lurking in a muffin !
I go into a lot of detail regarding steakhouse quality steaks in <URL> . Excerpt : Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged . The finest steakhouses dry age their beef . The difference ? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat ( as in a whole side of cow ) and refrigerating it for about a week . After that , it 's cut smaller and sold to stores . Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process . Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator . Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate , which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef . The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away . After the aging is complete you 're left with 75-80 % of the meat you started with . This commands a premium price . Please note that the dry aging happens long before you purchase the steak . The entire cow is dry aged before it is even cut . You can not truly , safely dry-age steaks in your home . There are refrigerator aging approximations , but they are just that , approximations .
Without a canner you are limited to canning high-acid foods . Botulism spores do n't die at 212F , the boiling point of water . A pressure canner boiling water at 15PSI raises the boiling point to 250F or so which will kill the spores . The bacterium can not grow in a high acid environment and so high-acid foods such as fruit and pickles do not need to be processed in a pressure canner . Look for recipes for such foods . As use2199 said they will involve boiling the jars for a while to kill things . An excellent resource is the <URL> that can often be found near the canning supplies in grocery stores . It always calls for Ball products of course but it has a ton of good canning recipes and instructions . Do n't experiment . Botulism is not a fun thing . Your lips get tingly and then you die shortly aftwards .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
Yes , it makes it less flavorful . That does n't necessarily mean it 's a bad idea . Often it 'll still be plenty flavorful even with a decent amount of ice in it . So by using ice , you save the trouble of having to freeze some ingredients first , and do n't go through your fruit quite as fast . You can avoid having to keep fruit juice on hand . It also lets you pretty easily control exactly how cold/icy you want the smoothie . If you live in a hot area , smoothies with a decent amount of ice are actually pretty nice - they stay cold much longer , and the icy graininess can make them more refreshing . I 'm sure plenty of people would never dream of using ice and some people do all the time ; feel free to go on doing whichever suits you ! ( I 'm originally from Texas , and honestly , in addition to blending some ice in , I used to put whole ice cubes in after blending just to make extra sure it stayed cold . ) For a helpful comparison : a lot of really good sorbet recipes use a decent amount of water . For example , David Lebovitz 's mango sorbet ( from The Perfect Scoop ) uses two large mangoes and 2/3 cup of water . Sure , it could use some kind of fruit juice instead , but I promise , it really really tastes like mango , and does n't taste watered down at all .
I 'm afraid you have gotten something wrong . <URL> and pressure cooking are , as far as food physics is concerned , on the opposite ends of the scale . Pressure cooking allows you to increase the boiling point of water , thus reducing the cooking time . ( Bad idea for a tender steak , btw. , as soon as you exceed a certain temperature , the proteins in the meat change irreversibly and the meat gets tough . ) Sous-vide uses temperatures way below the boiling point , combined with a very extended cooking time . This means you can safely and slowly bring your steak to the desired core temperature without the risk of overcooking and thus toughening the meat . A final sear is just a finishing touch , not technically a necessity for cooking the meat . ( But do n't skip it , it 's for flavour and eye appeal ! ) So no , we ca n't give you a temperature / time chart for steak in a pressure cooker - because the results would be very unsatisfactory .
end question
start question
Does black tea have the the highest level of caffeine ? If so , why ?
<URL> tells us this is a myth : Many tea companies , and even some reputable entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture , have made misleading generalizations about the caffeine content of broad classes of tea . It is a widespread myth that black tea contains more caffeine than green tea , and another myth that white tea contains the least caffeine of all teas . They indicate that brewing method is the main determiner of caffeine levels in the brewed tea . The source article goes on to cite various credible scientific sources , which raise the credibility of this assertion . Unfortunately , most of their links have gone bad , which makes it harder to check the background science . This <URL> does indicate slightly different levels , but that is likely to be a result of different brewing details across tea types rather than fundamental to the tea plant itself .
When tomatoes are fried , you can see that the oil becomes coloured red - so at least some of the colour components are preferentially soluble in oil . I will hazard a guess that , under the circumstances mentioned , the oil coats the tomato particles , and some of the colour migrates into it to give a red surface . Because the oil forms a coating , that coat will inhibit oxidation . The oil will also improve the mouth feel of the soup . Just the way I see it ...
Marshmallows expand so much because the water in them becomes steam , and gas takes up a LOT more volume than liquid . Specifically , 1 mL of water becomes ~ 1.36 LITERS of vapor , before it gets heated further . That 's 1000-fold expansion , before you add additional expansion as the gas is heated . Marshmallows do n't have all that much water content , but when it 's trapped in a stretchy gelatin matrix that holds gas readily , it only takes a bit to blow the whole thing up like a balloon . You are correct that the gas expansion on its own is insufficient ; unless I 've badly muddled my calculations , gas expansion from 20C to ~ 150C ( caramelization temperature ) will increase the gas volume by under 50 % .
You ca n't ( or at least I ca n't ) tell without a lot of experience with teas of that sort . Generally , a sufficiently fresh tea will have a decently strong fragrance when you smell the dry leaves . As it grows stale , the fragrance will be replaced gradually by mustiness . But which fragrance to expect varies dramatically by the tea . For instance , pan-fried greens like dragonwell ( longjing ) tend to smell vaguely nutty , while a sencha will smell more grassy . Dragonwell will also be more yellowish while the sencha will be more greenish . But these are two of many different varieties of green . Also , there 's a continuum of oxidation from green to black , so " too oxidized " is really a matter of taste . If you buy a Darjeeling ( black ) , it 'll tend to be lightly oxidized for a black tea ; if your green is darker than that , maybe it should n't be called green . I 'm sure with appropriate analytical chemistry equipment you could determine some aspects of tea " quality " -- but this would be complete overkill unless you 're running a major tea business and you want to ensure quality . And even then , you 'd probably be better off hiring a number of taste-testers . There is one test ( but it 's not definitive ) : brew the tea , then leave the cup out for a day . If it does n't get dramatically darker by the end of the day , it 's already mostly oxidized . In any case , if you like the tea , why do you care so much about the quality ? You can find some outrageously expensive teas -- I 've noticed some South Korean greens in particular -- that start getting into the price ranges of fine wines , but unless you 're doing this to impress people , you 're better off trying a variety of samples and then getting the one/ones you like . ( Hopefully you wo n't find that you really like those South Korean greens ... )
You 've already given the name for this process in your question . Reduction is the cooking term used for thickening and intensifying the flavor of a food by simmering or boiling away some of the liquid .
It Depends . First off , by ' goes bad ' I 'm assuming you mean both ' stale and unpalatable ' and ' moldy and not food-safe ' . And for both of those , it 's going to greatly depend on what ingredient , what you 're making , and how you 're making it . In the case of tomatoes , if you take your batch of ' last-legs ' tomatoes ( and I 'm assuming you mean there 's almost an unsafe level of bacterial/mold growth on them ) , and thoroughly cook them into a sauce , i.e. bring to a boil for an extended amount of time , you 'll ( hopefully ) kill of the microbes , and inactivate the toxins created by those bacteria , you will have a generally safe-to-eat sauce . Compared with a similarly cooked sauce from fresher tomatoes , it will probably get moldy at roughly the same average rate . However , it will probably taste worse . The ' last-legs ' sauce will get to unpalatable faster than the fresh one . Generally , if you 're able to cook something thoroughly , you 'll generally ' reset ' the microbe growth timeline back to the starting-point . With meat , however , you usually do n't want to cook it to the point of sterility . ( If you do n't believe me , boil a steak for an hour . Then try to eat it . ) So if you have a last-legs steak , I would n't cook it , then store it for a week in the fridge . Making a stew might be a good move , however .
Japanese style whetstones made of natural material , also known as " waterstones " , rely on water to make a paste from the material , and this paste is abrasive and aids in sharpening . Oil is not as effective as water in making this " mud " as the stone material is n't as soluble in oil . Further , once you have used oil on any type of whetstone , water may no longer be used as a lubricant , as it will be shed by the oil that has soaked into the stone and be ineffective in carrying away the swarf ( metal abraded from the blade by sharpening ) . Here is a <URL> on natural waterstones from an online retailer .
I think what you 've stumbled across here is an interesting implementation of a technique , and not really a specific dish . The technique ( simplified ) is poaching . It 's just a very unique way of doing it . I 've had eggs poached in black tea in Macau , and you 'll also find the technique used in English and French cooking . There 's an old recipe for scallops with demi-glace that calls for the scallop to be garnished with a quail egg poached in tea with bergamot ( Earl Grey , commonly ) . I wish I could remember the name of it and my French is n't nearly good enough to search effectively . My eggs were cooked until just runny , but it 's not uncommon to have them warmed just to hot and gooey with the white still translucent ( and delicious with noodles ) . There 's probably a colloquial name for what she described , but it 's essentially an adaptation of a technique that ( very likely ) originated in China .
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
Supply and demand . Supplies of avocados are declining due to droughts and unusual weather patterns . Not only drought can reduce crops , but unusual cool weather patterns can as well . Avocados dislike temperatures lower than 10 ° C and have absolutely no frost tolerance . Demand for avocados is going steadily upward as more people enjoy cuisines in which they are popular , such as Mexican and many South American dishes . Avocado oil is becoming more in demand as people consume it for its healthy omegas , and cooks use it due to its high smoke-point . Declining supply + rising demand = high prices .
Caffeine is bitter , tea is n't too bitter because as you mentioned it 's only got 40mg of caffeine . If you then triple the amount in there it 's going to taste that way . Try adding 3 tea bags to your cup and I 'm certain it 'll taste just as bitter . Energy drinks have copious amounts of sweeteners added hence why they do n't taste like caffeine . If you are hell bent on more caffeine without the associated bitterness but not adding sugar maybe a sweetener like stevia would be the way forward ...
Tea contains a lot of flavinoid compounds notably tannins . Tannins are astringent and have a very strong bitter flavor . The tannins are released much more slowly compared to the other flavor compounds . So when brewed for too long or too hot , much more tannins are released into the brew along and hence the resulting tea is much more bitter .
First off , the ISO standard is not intended to produce a good cup of tea . It is designed to produce a consistent one for taste testing , so that no tea manufacturer can claim that his tea was n't made " properly " . It 's title is " Tea -- Preparation of liquor for use in sensory tests " As for the actual tea making , yes , leaving the bag in longer will make a stronger cup of tea . The concentration of caffeine ( along with flavour molecules and everything else ) will slowly trend towards an equal concentration in the leaf and in the water . The longer you leave the tea bag/leaves in the water , the closer to equilibrium you will get . There are other factors that affect this , such as the temperature of the water , cut of the leaves , bag versus loose leaf and so on , but the trend is always towards equilibrium as time progresses . I 'm not sure where the upper limit of this lies , but I think that once the cup is cold there 's no point in it anyway . Thus , leaving the bag in for an hour is a bit much . I usually steep my tea for 3-6 minutes , depending on how strong I want it to be .
I can not speak to the historical trends in the UK , but in the US , the rise of commercial , sandwich style bread is part of a larger set of food trends that took place after World War II , into the 1950s . Housewives were looking to reduce the amount of labor they spent in the kitchen , such as baking from scratch , while simultaneously there was a trend towards processed " scientific " products that were seen as pure and wholesome at the time . See this article from <URL> for more information . I would argue that the modern is actually moving away to this with the " slow food " and " whole food " trend , and the rising availability of more traditional loaves in regular grocery stores , and increased awareness again of home baking . In fact , recently , whole wheat and whole grain bread has passed white bread in popularity according <URL> from the Chicago Tribune .
That great taste comes from the compounds produced by the <URL> . It not one reaction but many that occur when the building blocks of proteins and sugars react as food is heated . Many new compounds are produced giving the cooked food a richer range of flavors . The <URL> produced by the Maillard reaction give roasted peanuts their characteristic aroma , in particular <URL> . To produce pyrazines , you need to heat your peanuts above 70C , with 110C to 170C ( 230F - 340F ) suggested by most cookbooks . For unshelled peanuts at 110C it can take up to ten minutes for the amount of pyrazines produced to reach its peak . If the peanuts are not dry , you may need to add up to 20 minutes of oven time ( longer on a tawa ) at a lower temperature to dry them . Color will be your guide . The flavor of the pyrazines will be masked by oxidizing oils in the peanuts , so keeping them in an airtight container helps preserve that nutty-cracker-peanut flavor .
actually seafood 's country origin does make a very relevant difference . Why ? ocean floor type , water tempearture , tradewinds , upwelling and feed availability . Best octopus comes from Spain and Portugal ( actually portuguese octopus is the best ) Viet , China , Indonesia or Mexican octopus live in hot water . Portuguese coast has a very mild water temp , from 10 C to 20 C and a lot of sun exposure that triggers phytoplankton blooms . I could expand on this as I am a professional fisherman . Now , any country can import any seafood from anywhere and then label it as " theirs " so one must know which species are native to a certain location . Sustainability is also very imnportant and both Portugal and Spain are EU members where sustainability is a very serious matter .
When they say " probiotic " , what they mean is that there are microbe cultures present in the kombucha . It 's really nothing more than a sweetened tea which has been <URL> . The odor and distinctive flavor is the result of a low alcohol content and acetic acid ( the same acid found in vinegar ) produced by the fermentation process . While these cultures do tend to edge out other bacteria that would spoil the drink and potentially cause illness , it can eventually go bad like anything else . More to the point , because the cultures are still alive , they 'll continue the fermentation process as long as they can , especially once you open the container and start introducing oxygen . This can throw off the balance of the culture , but it can also just make the kombucha unpleasantly acidic . Once it gets to that point , it might still be effective from a probiotic stance , but the acid could have an adverse effect on your digestion . If you keep it sealed and refrigerated , it 'll last a couple weeks , but a week or so is probably the effective maximum when you 're opening the container frequently . You 'll want to stick to purchasing an amount that you can drink within a week or so , but do n't worry overmuch if it has a slightly vinegary tang and odor .
Bees add enzymes to honey that prevent crystallization . These enzymes are destroyed by many of the processing techniques , like heating , but such techniques also physically destroy the comb , so they 're not used on the honey that is in the comb . This type of honey is also called sometimes . As a side note , crystallized honey is fine for consumption . If you want to get rid of the crystals you can easily do so by heating the jar a bit .
Mostly it comes down to practice . However there are some tips and tools that can make it a lot easier . If you have a cake stand ( the kind that spins ) then you set the cake on the stand and slowly turn it with one hand while cutting forward and back with the other ( trying to keep the cutting hand as level as possible ) . Another option is to buy a cake leveler <URL> - if you make a lot of cakes it can be very handy .
The lack of vent holes would have been a problem . Vent holes allow steam to escape , reducing the amount of internal moisture . This moisture will both prevent the crust from cooking fully through , and will cause the crust to soften as after it comes out of the oven . That 's not to say that there was n't also some other problem , just this is one thing that you should correct .
end question
start question
How should I sautee Portobello Mushrooms ?
Mushrooms DO require a good amount of oil due to the fact that they will initially absorb it . However make sure that you 're adding salt to them right away to help begin drawing the juices out and start them over high heat , making sure that the pan is " screaming " hot before you ever add the oil and the mushrooms so that it will retain the heat even after the mushrooms are added to the pan . As the juices begin to exude from the mushrooms they will take the place of the oil and as the juices evaporate , the oil will aid in browning of the mushrooms . As they moisture begins to evaporate you can begin to decrease the temperature to avoid having to add more oil and keep them from sticking to the pan . I think mushrooms taste best when they 've been allowed to cook to the point where the moisture has evaporated and a really good browning has taken place ( not burnt of course ) .
I have seen pot roast of Shitake . Pot roast = over-cooked obviously . There were pot roast for : duck roast , chicken roast , pork trotters , buddhist faux meat , Buddha jumped over the wall roast . All of them amply roasted with shitakes . Okay , for what I have tried , I encountered two kinds of shitake pot roast sweet and sour sweet and salted soy-sauced The Buddhist faux meat : I saw the usual buddhist faux meat the permutations of which I think are due to diverse combination of various flours , soy and other beans . The thick gravy is dark brown with obvious scent of dark sweet soy sauce and black vinegar . And the over-cooked shitakes are chewy juicy with the wonderful gravy . Chicken pot roast : Then there was another time , the chicken pot roast . The gravy was thinner but not sour . It was a whole chicken that was boiled in sauce with the shitake . From what I understand , the shitake roast was done first and then the chicken submerged in the boiling cauldron at the end of the roast . At the last 10 minutes may be . Shitake juiced up with gravy enriched with chicken taste/flavour . Chewing on the shitake You should try overcooked shitake that has absorbed the juicy gravies . Chocolate mousse cake is nowhere in comparison just as you sink your teeth into it and the juice runs down your chin . And then you lick your fingers after you had them wipe your chin . Slow cooked shitake pot roast . I am sure there were spices involved . I also believe they used shitakes that had been stabilised by drying ( i.e. dried shitakes ) . Otherwise , I doubt fresh shitakes could take the strain of being overcooked .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
I mostly agree with GdD 's answer , but I 'll add a couple more comments . This may be an obvious answer , but I 'd generally follow the recommendation on the specific bottle . Some sauces will clearly state " refrigerate after opening , " and others wo n't . The Frank 's FAQ <URL> is an example of these sorts of instructions : two specific products recommend refrigeration , but in other cases for Frank 's hot sauces it is n't required ( " but doing so will keep the product fresher for a longer period of time " ) . I 've also seen an occasional product that said refrigeration " recommended " or something on the package . I 'd generally assume that if a manufacturer bothers to say something about refrigeration , it 's a good idea to do it . Sometimes it may be for food safety , but in other cases it may just be a product with ingredients that will lose flavor or degrade rapidly at room temperature . Most hot sauces wo n't degrade noticeably at room temperature even over a period of several months , and many will be stable for a couple years . Others will change flavors slowly over time at room temperature , but not necessarily in a negative way . ( Some sauces are deliberately " aged " or fermented at room temperature for periods from a week to several years , and sometimes these processes will continue to change the product even after it is bottled . Some sauces will undergo natural browning reactions at room temperature as well , which can alter flavor . I know some people who actually prefer hot sauce this way , though I 'm personally skeptical . ) If there 's a " best before " date on your sauce and no instruction to refrigerate , you can probably assume the sauce is supposed to maintain quality at least that long without refrigeration . However , that does n't guarantee that it will stay exactly the same over that period . As GdD said , refrigeration will almost always keep the sauce more stable .
It does n't really matter . A lot of people cook them with peel still on and peel it with their hands when cooked ( Careful , hot ! ) . You can peel them before you cook them , and then it 's just a question of taste I 'd say . Personally , I would peel off the white as well , though I 'm not sure about this .
Are there different qualities in prepared Hoisin sauces ? Think of it like barbecue sauce or chili powder : every company has their own recipe , and it 's always hard to know the precise justification for a specific price . The high price on one may be part of their premium brand image , and have nothing to do with the quality of the ingredients . Ultimately , you just have to try a few brands and decide which flavor appeals to you , and whether you find the price reasonable . If so , would I be better served by making my own ? As far as I can tell , hoisin sauce does not need to be fermented , so it 's going to be much easier to make authentic hoisin sauce at home than something like soy sauce or Worcestershire sauce . It 's more like making your own barbecue sauce . A few different websites have minor variations on this recipe : <URL> Is it worth the effort ? That 's a matter of personal opinion . It 's probably hard to justify on purely economic terms ; do you really use more than a few cents worth of hoisin sauce in any given meal , and are the ingredients that much cheaper than the product itself ? But of course , there are other reasons to cook than just to save money . I think you 've just inspired me to try making my own hoisin sauce :) If I make my own , how long will it keep for ? Each of those ingredients can last months on its own , often without any refrigeration , and together would create a highly acidic and antimicrobial environment . The worst that might happen to homemade hoisin sauce in several months of refrigerated storage is it might separate a bit and have to be remixed .
I usually use 1/4 cup per person for a smallish portion , and 1/3 cup per person if you 're a bit hungrier . You 'll probably want to check the instructions for your rice cooker to check exactly how much water you should add as different manufacturers vary . I believe the one I used in the past needed an equal quantity of water to rice .
An0r4k , I assume that you 're making a cup of black ( ? ) tea and steeping some lemongrass in it . If so , perhaps you should make the black tea very weak as its tannins might be amplifying the ( pleasant ) slight bitterness of the lemongrass to distasteful levels . Alternatively , if you are steeping the lemongrass in hot water , try removing the outer layers of the lemongrass stalk . If they are old or tough , this can increase the bitterness of the drink . In any case , check that there is n't any dirt trapped between the layers of the lemongrass . Some recipies call for putting the lemongrass into water , bringing it to a boil and then letting it simmer for 10-15 minutes . I have n't tried this . Even if it does produce a smoother taste , then the boiling might well degradge any health-giving nutrients from the lemongrass .
No . The fat content of goose , like most waterfowl , is very high . This makes it unsuitable for brining . Brining is intended to bring moisture to meats that tend to dry out , such as chicken and turkey . See <URL> to " <URL> " for more details .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
You certainly should season it , else cooking in it will make it rust . Also , your iron intake will rise rapidly if it 's not seasoned , which can become a problem if you 're eating too frequently from it . What Wikipedia is telling you is to not use reactive metal vessels ( cast iron or carbon steel ) for acidic dishes at all . Not to use them unseasoned .
Dupe , but a good question . See Satanicpuppies answer here : <URL> I know you asked re : cranberry sauce specifically , but this is a great article regarding the differences in sugars , generically , which might help in the future : " Sugar can be a single molecule made up of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen -- like glucose and fructose . Other sugars , like sucrose , or white table sugar , are made up of multiple molecules ( in this case , one glucose and one fructose ) , tied together with chemical bonds . Now , when sucrose is heated with an acid , it breaks back down into the two smaller sugars , glucose and fructose , resulting in something we call invert sugar . This small chemical change makes a big difference : While sucrose is hygroscopic , invert sugar is even more water-loving . And this can make a tremendous difference when , say , you want to bake a chewy , rather than crunchy , cookie . " <URL>
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
If it 's from an animal that is " young at heart " ( veal/calf ) , it may be tender enough to cut into thin strips and pan-fry or grill quickly as " steaks . " Do n't overcook , or they will be really tough , and you 'll be heartbroken . But to get to the heart of the matter , if it 's really an adult beef heart , it 's too tough and chewy to cook quickly . Braising is my preferred method and the one closest to my heart . This is one of those things can cook all day and will eventually become incredibly tender -- tasting like a slightly unusual and hearty pot roast . You can also stuff them and then either braise or roast them -- again , " low and slow " heat is the most heart-friendly . If you roast it , also be sure there is enough moisture in the stuffing ( i.e. , leave a " soft spot " in your heart ) , or else it can dry out during a long bake . ( You can also " roast " it in a dutch oven or something . ) When you open up your heart after cooking , a dry stuffing will just leave you with a heavy heart . A final option is to use it as stew meat . It will take longer to cook than most stew meats , so you might want to simmer for a while first before adding vegetables . Then cook until the flavors come together and your heart 's content . Once , when I had leftovers after making a stuffed heart , I was just going eat it , but then I had a change of heart . I chopped up the tender meat and added it to chili . It probably was about 1/3 of the overall meat in the chili , along with some diced chuck chunks and some ground beef . It came out incredibly good : there was a deep earthy flavor that really worked well . I served it to a number of friends without explaining the dish , and they did n't notice anything unusual ; I did n't have the heart to tell them . In fact , a number of people said it was some of the best chili they had tasted , which was really heartwarming to hear . Take heart ! There are lots of ways to cook it . Any slow-cooking method or recipe you might use for a tough cut of beef will probably work -- just follow your heart . ( I am actually serious about all of these methods -- but , okay , truly sorry about the puns . From the bottom of my ... )
You may very well be able to make that system work for you , but in the two fine-dining restaurants I 've worked , the system is less paperwork-intensive and more common-sense . It is based on organized storage , adding new product where it will be used after the old , and labeling . This lets you see at a glance what you have and how old it is , rather than having to constantly maintain an up-to-date inventory list . It also makes it easy to find what you want . The system works like so : Organize your storage so food goes in the same spot every day . This way you can find see at a glance what you have and what you need . It also makes it easier to find things . New food of the same type goes behind the old stuff , and is n't opened until the old product is used up . This prevents you from discovering the dreaded Green Milk lurking at the back of the fridge . ALWAYS label prepared food with the date , using masking tape and a permanent marker . Make sure the label ( or container 's expiration date ) is toward the front . You do n't want to have to sniff-test old food . Trust me . Store in clear containers , so you see how much is left . Inventory perishable foods before purchasing more . Toss spoiled or questionable food promptly . This prevents " unpleasant surprises , " and avoids contaminating nearby stuff . Cool food as fast as possible , to prevent bacterial growth . Hot water holds a lot of heat , so it gets pre-chilled in an ice water bath ; otherwise it can stay warm and breed bacteria for HOURS . Containers can be left open for an hour or two in the fridge to cool contents faster . At home , I use a very similar system , with a few modifications : Pre-packaged containers get labelled with an opened-on date , because usually this determines when they spoil more than the expiration date . Expiration dates are just rough estimates . <URL> provides more detailed information , but I do n't refrigerate any kind of leftover more than a week . High-protein foods , or things with egg in them get less time . If it smells even a little off , it 's probably unsafe , with the exception of milk and produce . They will only make you WISH they could kill you . Only buy produce you can use before the next grocery run ... unless it 's really cheap and can be used up easily . Yes , fresh tomatoes are amazing to cook with . They 're slightly less awesome when half of your 5 pounds spoil , unused . Do n't buy fresh meat or fish without a specific meal plan , or at least a schedule for use . This prevents these expensive , perishable foods from sitting in the fridge and spoiling . This does n't have to be a detailed day-by-day meal plan , but the minute you take to think before buying prevents impulse buys and helps make sure you 'll have the time and ingredients to cook the food before it goes bad . I know the last point can be difficult , but remember that a meal plan might be no more than " make myself a nice steak over the weekend . " The idea is to avoid buying meat on Sunday that you wo n't have time to cook until next Friday . If you have to , buy meat right before cooking a nice meal ; at least then it will be fresh . Freezing is also a good backup plan , but only if done fairly early .
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
I would n't make the layers fully in the freezer . It will be hard to seal up and may dry out . Also , frozen layers are easier to work with . The freezer will dry out unsealed cake extremely fast . I 'd bake all the cake , trim and level them , wrap tightly and freeze on Thursday . Make the sauces and creams on Friday and put them in the fridge . Assemble all on Saturday .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
Eggplant should be wrapped in plastic and refrigerated . It will last 5-7 days this way . It can also be frozen 6-8 months with the following process : Wash eggplant , peel and cut into 1/3 inch slices ; Blanch ( plunge into boiling water ) for four minutes in 1 gallon of boiling water to which 1/2 cup lemon juice has been added ( to prevent discoloration ) and chill quickly in ice cold water ; Drain off excess moisture , package in airtight containers or freezer bags and freeze immediately . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
Is it safe to eat smoked bacon without grilling ?
In such a case , for any food item , ask yourself a question : In a 19th century household , would it have been kept in the cellar , or eaten immediately ? For bacon , it is common knowledge ( or at least I think everybody knows it ) that it was kept in a cellar for long time . So this is definitely not a food which perishes too quickly . You can eat it raw . ( In fact , I often do when I need a quick sandwich ) . It can be a bit tough to tear apart with your teeth , so pre-cut it . The reason for this is that bacon is cured meat . There are two reasons not to eat raw meat : taste and food safety . Taste is individual , some people are OK with the taste and eat raw meat as long as they can find a source of meat fresh enough ( think sashimi , carpaccio , steak tartare ) . Food safety is not a problem with bacon . The process of turning pork to bacon includes salt and smoke . Both of these kill bacteria , create an environment which is not hospitable to new colonization ( dry , salty ) , and give the meat a new flavor which is better than the raw meat . If you are now asking yourself why we are bothering with the fridge for bacon and other ex - " cellar foods " at all , there is still a reason . First , most of us do n't have a convenient cellar at 12 ° - 15 ° C , and not only is the bacon 's life shortened if kept at usual kitchen temperatures , it also does n't taste too good . It is just greasy . Second , you seldom get dry bacon at the supermarket ; even if the curing process does n't include brining , bacon is often aged much less than in old times , and then packed in vacuum , so it does n't get really dry on the outside . So bacteria could very well start growing on it outside of the freezer . Inside the freezer , it keeps much longer than raw meat , and is certainly OK for consumption without frying . I guess that the popularity of fried bacon is mainly due to taste reasons .
Sterno is gelled denatured alcohol . It is denatured alcohol ( a combination of methanol and ethanol ) so that you ca n't , safely , drink it , but it is still mostly alcohol , which will dissolve in water and clean up just fine . While I would n't dump a lot of it down the sink , you should have no problem with cleanup . And while Sterno is n't safe to drink , it wo n't be a problem if you touch it in cleaning up . I just double checked the Sterno site and they confirm water cleanup and say , additionally , that it is biodegradable .
Reading through the <URL> on that episode of Good Eats it seems that he intended for the recipe to be done with the ice cream type rock salt : I also like plain old rock salt . Not only is it good for de-snowing , de-icing your , your front stoop , it 's good for , of course , making ice cream , and believe it or not , for baking stuff . That being said , I would personally feel fine using the rock salt since it does n't come in direct contact with the edible portion of the shrimp . But if I were buying bulk salt specifically to salt bake I 'd err on the side of caution and purchase <URL> which has very coarse grains and is safe for consumption .
Sure . <URL> , and I think there was an episode of Good Eats that described the process pretty well , too . I 'm not sure what you can get at the butcher in India , but you 'll want to find the belly of the pig . What you do is rub the meat with a cure , which is a mix of salt , sugar , seasoning , and " pink salt " ( a curing salt that is part regular salt and part sodium nitrite ) . Leave it in your fridge in a ziploc bag for a week or covered on a tray , flipping it over daily so that it cures evenly , then rinse it off . At that point you can roast it in a low oven , smoke it , or hang it to dry .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
Of course if an item is spoiled this means you should throw out anything that contains the spoiled item . However , based on your description , I have an alternative hypothesis . Brown discoloration in fruit does not mean the fruit is spoiled . Discoloration can be normal , especially if there was no unusual smells or changes in texture in the lemon . You said the lemon still appeared fresh on the outside . The more likely scenario is that the bitterness is from the lemon rind itself . The white pith underneath the outer bright yellow layer of the lemon rind is very bitter . If you go too deep while zesting a lemon your dish can easily be ruined by nasty bitterness . Only scrape the outer yellow surface when zesting a lemon . This can be quite challenging and takes some practice before you start zesting like an expert . Without a further description of the lemon , it is impossible to say whether it is spoiled or not ( it very well could be ) , but even if it was I doubt the spoiled lemon is causing bitterness ( it would probably cause a different but equally undesirable flavor ) .
They are not safe . An apple used in this manner is an aromatic , not to be eaten . I often use a combination of apple , cinnamon , rosemary and onion inside my bird . This stuff does not reach the necessary temperature to kill the little beasties that will hurt you . If it does , then you 'll have one dry bird .
If you 're at all like me , you are reassured by hard numbers and measurables . This should help . In this situation one of the likely pathogens would be one of the Salmonella species . Salmonella is killed by temperatures in excess of 130 F ( 55 C ) . However , it 's not an instant death . The time to kill Salmonella decreases exponentially as the temperature increases . The following table represents all the temperature and duration to kill 99.9999 % of the most heat-resistant strain Salmonella senftenberg . This species is as much as 30x more heat resistant than a " normal " S. typhimurium . Temperature | Time --------------- | ------ 140 F ( 60 C ) | 60m 150 F ( 65 C ) | 10m 160 F ( 70 C ) | < 2m For any given temperature the proportion of bacteria killed is constant . 1/6th the time kills 90 % , 1/3rd kills 99 % , 1/2 kills 99.9 % etc. . USDA guidelines to kill Salmonella and E. Coli are as follows : Temperature | Time --------------- | ------ 135 F ( 57 C ) | 86.4 m 140 F ( 60 C ) | 8.6 m 145 F ( 63 C ) | 2.7 m 150 F ( 65 C ) | 51.9 s 160 F ( 70 C ) | < 6s 165 F ( 74 C ) | < 2s So , needless to say , re-searing your steak at a typically high stove top temperature ( at least 300 F [ 149 C ] ) for even a fraction of a second will result in utter devastation to whatever beastie population you may have picked up in recontaminating your meat . Chances are , if the steak came hot out of the pan , and you removed it from the plate quickly , the residual heat alone would be enough to kill it . The re-sear certainly does n't hurt though . A good rule of thumb is to wash plates as you go . If this is not possible or convenient you should minimally remove the plate from your vicinity by putting it in the sink or dishwasher as soon as you have taken the food off of it .
Sure it 's safe . You are about to char the outside at very high temperatures , nothing 's going to survive that , so cleaning it is more about flavor than safety . I would n't just wipe it though , clean it with water or you might get a dirtier steak flavor than you 'd like .
While if you have the opportunity to improvise a lid I recommend you do so as per the other answers , however it is n't always possible . I have unexpectedly been thrust into the " grill master " role when I 've shown up to parties and the charcoal is hot , food expensive , and nobody but me knows how . In situations like this you have to do the best you can with what you have , and sometimes you wo n't have a lid or anything you can use as one . The reasons you want a lid are that it evens the heat out , and reduces the oxygen supply to the fire which cools things down a bit and reduces flare-ups . Without a lid you will get a hotter temperature at the base of the grill and much cooler temperatures above , with fat having a much greater tendency to flare . You can still get good results through making good choices of what to cook , and good technique . Bad technique will lead to food that is burnt to a crisp on the outside and raw in the middle . There are some foods that you do n't need a lid for , in fact you should n't use one , like thin to medium cut steaks . Other foods like burgers you can use a lid or not and still get a good result . So part of your success will come from choosing the right things to cook . Thinner is better , as is picking foods that do n't necessarily have to be cooked through . Some food you just ca n't grill without a lid . Avoid anything that requires long , indirect heat like legs of lamb or roasting joints . Some food is best cooked with a lid , but you can get good results without one , like chicken and sausages . Your main problem is heat control , and flaring . Chicken and sausages need longer cooking temperatures , so the goal is to cook them through without burning the outside , you can do this by keeping them around the edge of the charcoal where they get enough heat , and dripping fat wo n't hit the coals and flare up . Turn them often , like once a minute to keep them from burning . If they are getting close to done and they do n't have enough char then you can move them to the center of the grill for a bit . It also helps to have some sort of baste to coat them with to keep them moist like bbq sauce or a marinade . With sausages you can cheat a bit by slicing them down the long way and cooking them flat a few minutes over high heat . If you are cooking different foods at the same time , like burgers , sausages , and chicken then separate your grill into zones . Burgers get high heat , sausages medium , and chicken low . If you want to cook mostly food that needs a medium to low heat then you will get a lot of mileage from arranging your charcoal intelligently , like in a long strip down the middle of the wide part of the grill , or in a square grill in a torus shape . This will give you much more area of your grill with the temperature you need . Really important for lidless grilling is a spray bottle full of water to put out flare-ups , a mist sprayed on the base of the flare works magic and it wo n't kick up ash all over your food .
In such a case , for any food item , ask yourself a question : In a 19th century household , would it have been kept in the cellar , or eaten immediately ? For bacon , it is common knowledge ( or at least I think everybody knows it ) that it was kept in a cellar for long time . So this is definitely not a food which perishes too quickly . You can eat it raw . ( In fact , I often do when I need a quick sandwich ) . It can be a bit tough to tear apart with your teeth , so pre-cut it . The reason for this is that bacon is cured meat . There are two reasons not to eat raw meat : taste and food safety . Taste is individual , some people are OK with the taste and eat raw meat as long as they can find a source of meat fresh enough ( think sashimi , carpaccio , steak tartare ) . Food safety is not a problem with bacon . The process of turning pork to bacon includes salt and smoke . Both of these kill bacteria , create an environment which is not hospitable to new colonization ( dry , salty ) , and give the meat a new flavor which is better than the raw meat . If you are now asking yourself why we are bothering with the fridge for bacon and other ex - " cellar foods " at all , there is still a reason . First , most of us do n't have a convenient cellar at 12 ° - 15 ° C , and not only is the bacon 's life shortened if kept at usual kitchen temperatures , it also does n't taste too good . It is just greasy . Second , you seldom get dry bacon at the supermarket ; even if the curing process does n't include brining , bacon is often aged much less than in old times , and then packed in vacuum , so it does n't get really dry on the outside . So bacteria could very well start growing on it outside of the freezer . Inside the freezer , it keeps much longer than raw meat , and is certainly OK for consumption without frying . I guess that the popularity of fried bacon is mainly due to taste reasons .
Taken out of context , that does n't make much sense , but I can think of several similar claims you might have heard - all of which are true and most can be found on the <URL> and the sites of most other agencies : Perishable food should not be left in the " danger zone " ( 4.4 ° C - 60 ° C or 40 ° F to 140 ° F ) ( room temperature ) for more than a total of 2 hours ; 1 hour if the temperature is above 32 ° C / 90 ° F ( mouth/gut temperature ) . Freezing does not reset this countdown , it only stops it temporarily . Thus , it is not a safe practice to thaw and refreeze food several times ( especially if it 's being brought above refrigerator temperatures ) . Cooking does reset the countdown , but unless you are in a completely sterile environment ( hint : you are n't ) , you still have to keep food out of the danger zone after cooking , which is why guidelines say to refrigerate within 2 hours . Most people reheat their food to " warm " or even " hot " but not cooking temperature . Unless you reheat to an internal temperature of 74 ° C / 165 ° F , then all that time in the danger zone after cooking is cumulative . So if you do what most people do and reheat food to 40 ° -50 ° C , a nice comfortable eating temperature , then you 'd better either ( a ) only reheat the portion you plan to eat , and/or ( b ) throw out any uneaten portion instead of putting it back in the fridge . Really it 's all about the cumulative amount of time , since being fully cooked , that the food has spent in the danger zone . Theoretically , if you boiled the same piece of chicken every 12 hours and quick-froze it immediately afterward , it would stay safe indefinitely . It would also have no flavour or texture left , so I do n't recommend it . Since most people do n't carefully measure the internal temperature of food when they reheat it , we have the " best practice " of only reheating perishable food once after it 's been cooked , because otherwise it gets really hard to estimate how much time is left on that metaphorical clock . And , obviously , do n't leave it in the fridge for more than a few days , because it can still spoil in there , just slower .
OK - for my bona fides , I 'm a microbiologist and have made a career of quality control in food processing including meat processing so I know what I am talking about . There are two kinds of smoked pork chops , cold smoked and hot smoked . Cold smoked pork chops are n't heat processed , so they are n't cooked . They have the redder color and the more resilient , moister feel of raw meat . You are only apt to run into them in specialty meat markets or at small local butchers . These need to be cooked to 145F to be safe and palatable to eat . What you find in the grocery store and most meat markets is almost always hot smoked . It is heated during the smoking process and is fully cooked , just like a smoked ham . It looks and feels to the touch liked cooked meat . That sounds like what you have . If you are n't sure ask the butcher or meat department manager . They should know . If they do n't , buy your meat elsewhere . Having said all that , it is common to find the smoked pork chops in the meat case right alongside the raw pork . Being exposed to raw meat undoes the kill step the heat of cooking does to foodbourne microorganisms . Salmonella , e.coli and other organisms are easily transferred from utensils , trays and workers hands back onto the cooked meat . This could be done in the meat case , or in wrapped product it could happen in the back room where the chops are cut up and wrapped . Organisms that find their way onto the meat quickly grow and spread over the meat 's surface and may find their way into the interior of the cut through any break in its surface . Unless you are certain it has been factory wrapped , sealed and labelled rather than in the store you should treat it as raw meat and heat it to 145F before serving . At the least be sure the surface of the meat has been seared before serving . I just do n't trust the expertise and commitment to providing safe foods you are apt to find in a grocery store or butcher shop . On the other hand , if it looks like it came from a factory already sealed in plastic wrap I would feel certain it was processed on a line that only processes cooked meat and is promptly sealed . I would have no qualms about eating it cold right out of the package .
Sprouted onions are perfectly safe to eat . If far advanced the texture may not be ideal ; yours does not sound very far advanced at all ( not even green . ) Considering you can eat green onions , there 's nothing to fear from onion sprouts .
Are you trying to make Sauerkraut ? Either way for the pink colour you have a non-desirable bacteria growing . While most Sauerkraut has some of this , it is not always safe to eat . Time to throw it away ? If you salt cabbage , you need to ensure not too much salt is used ( 1 % to 2 % max ) , and make sure it is packed down very firmly , so only anaerobic bacteria will grow in any numbers It does n't need to be in a closed container , but it should have a firm fitting lid , without an air gap on the top Also , once it goes past 20 ° C ( 70 ° F ) you run the risk of getting other undesirable bacteria and yeasts , and general food rot
A quick google brought <URL> : In this case , the brown ones may have been closest to mature or viable . When fully ripe , most peppers seeds are supposed to be brown or tan . not white . In my experience , peppers with brown are just old and withered . They are safe , just not as tasty . Unless the brown thing is mold , in which case they may be poisonous .
The existence of gas in a vacuum-sealed environment could be a sign of microbial activity . I would assume that , since the package appears to be sealed , that the gases in it were introduced from within . I would toss that one and feel OK using the other two .
It sounds like it 's fermented , and more harmful bacteria or mold could definitely have grown without being visible . So it 's not safe , in that there 's definitely some risk . It 's hard to evaluate exactly how risky it is . It sounds like you 're already routinely taking risks by eating iffy food that 's not obviously rotten or moldy , so you certainly could choose to take that risk here . I 'd really advise against it , though . Remember , food poisoning is n't just about stomachaches . If you end up in the hospital , it 's going to cost you a lot more than a replacement jar of applesauce . As a side note , applesauce generally requires refrigeration . The jar you have almost certainly says " refrigerate after opening . " So it may not be a good choice for an egg substitute . You might want to look into actually shelf-stable substitutes . If applesauce is working for you , <URL> ( or chia ) or mashed banana might be good options . Flax and chia are totally shelf-stable , and while bananas do n't last forever you can at least buy them as you need them .
Yes , it is perfectly safe ( as long as you continue to thaw the meat in a safe manner , as in the refrigerator ) . The marinade will not begin to have much effect until at least the outer layers of the meat are thawed , but it will not otherwise have any side effect . It may get slightly better penetration due to the changes in the texture of the meat from ice crystals , but the effect should be negligible at best . In fact , you can freeze the meat in its marinade if you so choose , and know what you are going to use it for when you thaw . It will get the benefit of marination time until the outer layers are frozen , and then again during the thawing .
Since you are asking about canning then what you are describing is not a canning process which will give you a result you can store long term at room temperature . Long-term storage of soup would require pressure canning to raise the internal temperature high enough to kill any foodborne illnesses . If you plan to freeze the soup then mason jars are n't ideal , they 'll work but they are bulky and take up a lot of room . In any case you do n't get any real benefit from putting the lid on when hot if you are going to freeze them , you 're better off letting it cool so you do n't end up overwhelming your freezer 's cooling capacity .
end question
start question
How long does pancake batter last in the fridge ?
Bisquick-originated pancake and waffle batter lasts a day , two at the most . Data : in college , I made pancakes or waffles every day for a year and a half , making the batter on day 1 and then cooking it on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . Once in that time I got sick on Day 3 . Based on that experience , more than 24 hours is getting sketchy , though 48 seems to work most of the time .
Anything can spoil eventually , refrigerated or not . Keeping something under a lid and refrigerated restricts the number of airborne colonizers that might get access to it , and the cold temperature means that even if they get there , they will grow much slower than at room temperature . For something to spoil , it needs to be colonized by bacteria or fungus spores , and it needs to contain some nourishment to support their growth , not too much chemicals that prevent their growth , and not too much competing life forms already present . So , things with a high concentration of salt or sugar tend to be unhospitable to bacteria and fungi growth , because they are hygroscopic ( they draw the water out of cells ) . Extreme high or low pH ( eg acidic ) also retards growth . Think of things like ketchup , mustard , jelly with labels that say " refrigerate after opening " but most people ignore them . Alcohol is unfriendly if the concentration is too high , and of course natural fermented foods are already occupied by human-friendly bacteria . Ketchup is sealed in a bottle , usually with no fingers or utensils inserted into it , so it stays pretty sterile . It is also protected by being hygroscopic ( due to high concentration of sugar and salt ) and its acidity . Ketchup as a word and concept is descended from an Indonesian fish sauce , and has been around much longer than refrigeration . I think you can leave it out with no worries unless you see obvious mold growth .
Stretch and fold should be done in both directions . One stretch and fold , in most techniques that I read , is stretching like you stay , folding , then rotating 90 degrees and repeating . You can see an excellent example of stretch and fold in <URL> and <URL> . Where they do it and then turn it - that 's one stretch and fold .
I do n't think it 's just one thing : The foil reflects radiant heat , meaning that the only remaining way to propogate heat is through conduction and convection . The foil is an impermeable barrier which helps to keep the moist air ( created by boiling off the moisture in the surface of the bread ) near the sandwich , which reduces the rate at which the bread dries out , and we need dry items for them to burn . It 's possible that retention of the moisture within the foil slows the heating of the enclosed system as there 's less loss of thermal mass , but I doubt that 's a significant factor in most situations . You might be able to test which of the other two is the more significant factor by running a test with foil that 's been perforated such that it 's not a good barrier but would still be reflective , and see how that compares .
My guess is that you do n't have real cheese in your sandwich . I 've seen this before with things called cheese that were really types of <URL> . It happened when then product was exposed to moisture that it seemed to absorb , which then caused it to turn soggy and glue-like . If you 'd have said that you had tomato in your sandwich , I 'd have been sure this was what was going on .
How liquid was it when you say liquid ? Our kitchen is very cold in winter and may very well get to fridge temperature at night time and the olive oil gets white balls of solidified oil in it , and then goes very sludgy , making it difficult to pour , if not impossible . But it does n't exactly solidify . So it depends on whether you mean it is completely liquid like normal or not . This website implies that most oils should be unpourable by 35F ( 1.7 C ) , which is the lowest temperature for a fridge ( i.e. any particular fridge or part of a fridge may be slightly warmer than this ) : <URL> ( This same information is found on a multitude of sites , so I do not believe this is the original source ) However , it also says that olive oils may be " winterized " which means they do not clump or cloud , even at 32F/0C . This is so they can be used in salad dressings , etc , that are stored in the fridge . So you would need to find out if your olive oil had been so treated . I am not sure if this process is just used for oil sold for commercial use or not .
For a 30 min marinade , no , you do n't have to put it in the fridge . In fact , many recipes will call for removing thick beef cuts from the fridge 20-60 min before cooking , to let the meat come up to room temperature . That being said , there has been some <URL> , and the general concensus is that cooking a cold steak gives better results . <URL> , although it required freezing to ensure you did n't develop surface ice crystals , and cooking in more oil than typical .
Marsala is a <URL> , that is , a wine to which extra alcohol has been added . Therefore , you can store Marsala outside of the fridge , in a cool place ( 15-20 ° C ) , away from direct light . In these conditions a bottle can sit there for several weeks/months with no obvious degradation , as you would expect for fortified wines . Generally it is suggested to drink Marsala or similar wines , such as Porto or Banyuls , in the following 4/5 months , but I had bottles opened for a year or so and they were still good , although the flavour faded a bit . As for Marsala all ' uovo , it has pasteurized egg yolks in it , and even home-made recipes call for a pasteurization step . In general I would store home-made one in the fridge to be on the safe side , but do not serve it too cold . Commercial ones may also have preservatives ( aside from the added alcohol of Marsala ) in them , and are safe to leave in a cool place for several weeks .
The short answer is 1-2 years for traditional pickles , assuming a good recipe with adequate salt content and fermentation time ( traditionally anywhere from a month to a few months ) . For modern quick fermented homemade recipes , where the pickles are fermented in a week or so instead of months , I 'd recommend using them up within a month or two . Some representative sources ( note the bolded bits about fermentation time ) : " Fermented or processed pickles also have a very long shelf-life , about two years . " ( <URL> ) " FERMENTED PICKLES : The oldest method of pickling , when a naturally occurring bacteria transforms the sugars present in the ingredient into an acid , preserving the food . These are called ' processed ' pickles , and though they take as many as five weeks to cure , they last up to 2 years . " ( <URL> ) " The product is completely fermented in 3-6 weeks ... In contrast to salt stock brining procedures [ i.e. , pickles removed from their liquid after fermentation and stored in a very heavily salted tank for future processing ] , genuine dill pickles do not require desalting and are often sold with the filtered fermentation liquor that is produced during the process . The product must be consumed within 12 months . " ( <URL> ) While these are common estimates , many books on the subject wo n't even give such shelf-life estimates ( e.g. , Sandor Katz 's The Art of Fermentation ) , because there is so much variability depending on recipe and storage conditions during and after fermentation . The other issue is that fermented brined pickles are " alive " in the sense that they continue to have microbial activity even after refrigerated . Unless you " process " the pickles after fermentation by heating to a high temperature and canning , you should expect that pickles will change their taste and texture continuously . You might like pickles that are " just finished , " but dislike their flavor or texture after a month or two in the fridge ( or the reverse ) . Traditional pickle-makers often take advantage of these changes , for example by selling " half sours " which taste like something between a fresh cucumber and a pickle and have only been partially fermented . " Half sours " and other pickles that have not completed fermentation before refrigeration have a much shorter shelf-life ( usually a few weeks ) , because the lack of full acidity in the liquid and remaining sugars and other nutrients in the cucumbers may still allow other things to grow and for spoilage to occur . Even after a longer fermentation , expect pickles to gradually get more sour and to soften in texture as the months go by . However , with adequate salt content and full fermentation , and as long as you are not contaminating the storage container , there 's no reason to expect they will actually " go bad " at refrigerator temperatures for at least a few months and potentially much longer . Traditionally , long-storage pickled cucumbers were fermented in ( and subsequently stored in ) a cool place , like a root cellar or other underground compartment , which probably stayed around 50-55 degrees Fahrenheit most of the year . At these cooler temperatures , pickles usually needed to ferment for at least a month and sometimes a few months before achieving full flavor . Since the root cellar temperatures were often above refrigerator temperatures , they would then continue to get even more sour and gradually begin to break down as the months went by . However , the purpose of storage was to have cucumbers available throughout the year , so last year 's batch would be used up and then be replaced by the new harvest . Today , most people tend to ferment homemade pickles faster ( often at room temperature ) and often with less salt than the season-long ferments of the past would use . This produces pickles more quickly , sometimes in as little as a week or so , with pickles that are not as extreme in their sourness and saltiness as the long-storage pickling of the past . The flavor profile can also be somewhat different , due to greater activity of some microorganisms at room temperature . Depending on the recipe , they are often not as stable and should probably be consumed within a few weeks or months . ( For example , Alton Brown 's relatively fast pickle <URL> recommends storing the pickles no longer than two months in the refrigerator . )
It lasts indefinitely . The date you are seeing should be viewed as a " best before " date . Over time the soda can become flat and the flavor will degrade , but it will still be drinkable as long as the can was not compromised . Based on looking at some Coke I recently purchased , it appears that the date is likely 1 year in the future from when it was canned . The cans in my fridge have a date of ; I bought these in late July . Plastic bottles . on the other hand , have a much shorter " best before " window . This is because the plastic bottle leaks the carbonation much quicker than an aluminum can does . I do n't have any bottles on hand , but if I recall correctly they typically have a date only 3 months out .
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
Paul , I make my own pasta dough frequently . Since my standard recipe makes around 40oz ( 1 kg ) of dough , I always have leftover , so I 've had plenty of experience with saving it . Even with eggs , pasta dough will be fine in the fridge for a week ; the texture will be unaffected ( if anything , it will be better ) . If you want to keep it longer than a week , it can be frozen for several weeks wrapped tightly in plastic wrap , and more-or-less indefinitely if you vacuum-seal it . Glad to hear about your WWW recipe , I 'll have to try that .
There is no rule of thumb encompassing all salad dressings . One " rule of thumb " which sometimes gets used is to look at the shelf life of the most perishable component . Frequently it works ; sometimes , it is dangerously misleading . A mixture of the things you listed can have a longer or shorter shelf life of that of the most perishable component . An example of lengthened shelf life is mayo ; it stays good for longer time than a cracked fresh egg , because the yolk gets pasteurized and the pH is lower . But there can be examples of the other thing happening . The classic is the homemade garlic oil : you can keep pure garlic and pure oil for months in the pantry , but once you combine them , you get a botulism risk . I do n't usually keep salad dressings in the fridge , but if I did , I would look at why the most problematic component has the shelf life it has , and decide whether mixing it will change the condition . For example , if I had a mixture of oil , vinegar and pure emulsifier : Oil keeps for months because it has no carbs , so nothing for bacteria to eat . Vinegar can have a few carbs , but not a lot , and it also has a very low pH , so bacteria die in it . The combination still wo n't have enough carbs for bacteria , and will still have a low pH. So the mixture will keep for very long time , just like pure vinegar or oil . On the other hand , imagine mixing vinegar with honey and water . Honey does n't go bad by itself , because the carbs are too concentrated for bacteria . The vinegar and water will dilute them , so this mechanism of bacteria prevention vanishes . The pH of the mixture will probably rise a lot too , because the vinegar gets diluted , so no protection on that front either . Thus , this mixture is apt to go bad much earlier than pure vinegar or pure honey . This method requires that you make a new decision for each new dressing you make , and that you acquire enough knowledge to be able to make such decisions . If you feel this is too much effort or too risky , you can either start adding conservants to your homemade dressings , or just start preparing a fresh dressing for each batch of salad .
Most cured products last 7-10 days in the fridge although you most likely will see a quality drop off before then at around day three or four . You can also freeze the bacon for up to two months and thaw for use to extend the shelf life .
Bees add enzymes to honey that prevent crystallization . These enzymes are destroyed by many of the processing techniques , like heating , but such techniques also physically destroy the comb , so they 're not used on the honey that is in the comb . This type of honey is also called sometimes . As a side note , crystallized honey is fine for consumption . If you want to get rid of the crystals you can easily do so by heating the jar a bit .
I have always made sure that I only defrost enough to meet the needs of the moment for sushi . If you cut the blocks into 4 to 8 rolls worth , they should defrost under running water in just fifteen to twenty minutes , just about the time it takes me to do a batch of sushi rice . That said , fish once defrosted will start to lose flavor immediately but will remain edible for 2 days . Once it starts to smell , get rid of it immediately , and I would play it very safe on that " starts to smell " the faintest whiff should be enough to send it to the bin .
<URL> gives you 3-5 days on cooked onions in the fridge - after that , tightly wrapped and airtight into the freezer .
<URL> says no , you can enjoy your shot for a little while : In reality , there are only a couple of things that happen to espresso over the course of a few minutes . First , the crema or foam that sits on top of the espresso reintegrates with the liquid . Crema , on its own , contains some of the best flavors and aromatic qualities of the espresso in high concentrations . Drinking it straight can be overwhelming but , it stands to reason , that having the crema reintegrate might actually be a good thing . Second , the espresso cools down . The temperature of espresso has a lot to do with how we taste the various flavors contained within it ... I am not an espresso fan myself -- I like regular coffee , but not after it has cooled down , and never reheated . Many folks are perfectly content to microwave a cold cup and drink it . I imagine that older , colder espresso is palatable to you to the extent that you are willing to tolerate it . A small shot of coffee -- and lets face it , that is all espresso is , even if it is brewed in a fancy manner -- is going to cool off much more rapidly than a full cup , or a full pot .
Potato pancakes are held together , usually with egg , sometimes flour as well . Hash Browns are usually just the potato , maybe onion and seasonings .
Not all turkeys are the same , and personally , I would not risk letting an entire turkey go rancid in the refrigerator . There is so much you do n't know about this turkey : How was it butchered ? In particular , how long was it sitting on the block and was it packed immediately afterward or left sitting out for a long time ? How quickly was it cooled down to " transporting " temperature after butchering ? Was it transported immediately , or was it stored for a while before transport , and if so , what were those storage conditions ? How specifically was it transported ? What were the environmental conditions , aside from temperature ? Was it exposed to air ? Could it have picked up any other contaminants ? Just how cold was the refrigerator at Trader Joe 's ? Are you sure that it 's consistently that cold ? What if the turkey was shifted around ? For example , what if some other customer picked it up , tossed it in a shopping cart , then after an hour of shopping decided to put it back ? How did she transport it ? I 'm guessing in a non-temperature-controlled trunk ? How long was it in that condition/environment before finally making it into the fridge ? Was the temperature in the fridge turned down as far as it can go long before putting the turkey in there ? If not , how long might it have taken to get down to the desired temperature , especially with a massive slightly-warmed-up turkey in there ? How cold does her refrigerator get ? Is it a new refrigerator ? Are you both certain that it gets as cold as the rep at TJ 's is assuming ? Have you actually stuck a thermometer in there to measure the environmental temperature around where the turkey would be stored ? I 'm not expecting you to answer any of these ; my point is just that there are so many variables , so many things that can go wrong , and the quoted 10-day storage period ( as well as the sell-by date ) is for storage under ideal conditions . I 've seen turkeys go rancid in the fridge after just 2 days . I 've seen others take longer , but still far less than 10 days to go rancid . It 's an incredibly frustrating and completely avoidable experience . Just put it in the freezer ! She just needs to make sure she gives it a couple of days to thaw in the fridge , due to the size of the bird . A half-frozen turkey on Thanksgiving day is almost as useless as a rancid one .
end question
start question
What 's wrong with using spin dryer to dry lettuce ?
I think the thing boils down to how much you need to get from the lettuce . If you demand the best of the best performance for your salad , you want to blot it dry with paper towels , so that the texture is best preserved and the appearance is undisturbed . For my purpose , in my kitchen , a salad spinner saves money ( the paper towels ) , time ( my time ) , and allows me to do something more interesting than blotting it dry , and the time saved can be used to better decorate the dishes I love better than the salad . In essence , there is nothing wrong with any method of cooking if you enjoy the result , and it does n't involve health problems . Spinning it dry is fine for me , and if you accept the result , there is little to hesitate using one . Thomas Keller also told us that after vegetables release the flavors in the soup we should discard them , and replace them with fresh cooked vegetables with better colors and better flavor for better presentation . In my kitchen , I am not serving a Michelin 3-star soup to my family , and thus it is fine having those vegetables in the soup for some more fibres in our diet . It is a matter of fine dining , it is not a matter of home kitchen . Insist if you have to , but relax if you actually can .
No , there 's no need to wash the pasta , and really , it 's best not to . It 's good that the water gets cloudy from the pasta starch . If it has enough starch in it , it 'll leave the surface of the noodles a bit stickier , making sauce adhere better . And you can also use some of the pasta water in a sauce to the same end . Getting the water that starchy generally requires using less water ( see <URL> ) . If you 're using tons and tons of water , like the pasta package probably says , it 's probably going to be too diluted . The one case in which you might want to wash the pasta is if , even when you start it from cold water and stir enough , it sticks . The only kind of pasta I 've had this happen with is orecchiette , which is shaped perfectly for getting it to stick to itself .
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
To expand on Jolene 's box idea , I 'd recommend : shirt boxes ( talk to a local department store if you 're not planning on buying a bunch of shirts ) pizza boxes ( again , talk to a local store about getting some ... likely get the smallest ones you can , such as if they have ones for a few leftover slices as opposed to for a whole pie ) restaurant takeout containers ( depending on the size of the cookies ... talk to a local chinese carryout or similar ) Some cake and candy supply stores will sell a variety of box sizes as well . I 'd also agree with irwinners in recommending a fan -- I ca n't quantify the exact speedup , as it 's affected by ambient humidity , temperature , airspeed and such , but a box fan near the cookies ( I use it to suck air over the cookies , not blow , as I do n't have a good way to dust the inside of the fan without disassembling it each time ) will help to crust up the icing to make it a little more sturdy .
Tearing is NOT worth the extra effort , tested experimentally . Others have explored the theoretical reasons behind this , so I decided to test it in real life . I did this like so : Green leaf lettuce from the local CSA Cut one leaf with a sharp knife ( stainless ) , and tore the second leaf carefully by hand ( fast , clean tears ) Pieces were both wrapped in moist paper towels and left out at room temperature Photographs were taken at 30 minute intervals After 2 hours , the 2 leaves still look identical ( picture below ) . Cut ( on the left ) , Torn ( on the right ) : Provisos : knife was sharp and leaves were fresh and kept moist . A dull knife or more abusive handling of the leaves may yield bruising and faster browning . I am currently repeating this on a longer time scale , and may attempt with a dressing . Practical take-away from the experiment : I have found that in real life , it does n't matter how you divide your leaves , as long as you do n't apply dressing before storing for a prolonged period . The acidic dressing will wilt leaves and cause discoloration , and leading to a limp , soggy salad . The experiment supports that neither method leads to unacceptable browning within a short timeframe . In practice , I 've only seen browning when lettuce is left overnight or longer , or when it is stored with dressing . Cook 's Illustrated <URL> with their experiment to see if plastic lettuce knives are worth it . They found that : Though all lettuce began showing some browning on the ribs after 10 days , none showed any signs of browning on the cut or torn surfaces . After 12 days , the heads cut with metal knives showed faint signs of browning on these surfaces , and the lettuce cut with the plastic knife followed a day later . The torn lettuce was last to brown on its ruptured edges , starting to turn at 2 weeks . Given that lettuce is browning on the ribs before it does on cut edges , the difference between cut and torn is no longer important . You 're only adding 20 % to the time before browning appears on cut surfaces . Most people will agree that after 2 weeks lettuce no longer has its full flavor . I have found that to get the freshest , best taste it should be eaten no more than 4 days after harvest . So , if there difference between cut and torn is insignificant , why cut rather than tear ? It 's faster and more consistent , especially if you have good knife skills and a sharp knife . You can cut a head of romaine in under a minute by knife , versus several times this by hand . You also do n't have to worry about bruising leaves or making irregularly shaped pieces by accident , and you can choose to do large pieces or fine , fluffy shredded mixture . In my time in professional kitchens , I came to rely on the knife as an extension of my body , and you should too .
According to <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Broccoli is not sensitive to chilling temperatures and should be stored as cold as possible without freezing . When freezing injured , thawed buds will be very dark and translucent , and can later turn brown or may serve as sites for development of bacterial decay . Note that they are describing how to store and ship broccoli which is intended to be consumed fresh . To freeze broccoli for preservation , it is blanched first .
If you just need the pulp ( for pie , ice cream , jam , etc. . . ) then cook them down and run them through a food strainer . If you need them raw , or halved/skins on , then find a good audiobook ...
In a cup with water . You place them straight up in a small cup with a little water . Just like you would if you were storing flowers . You 'll want to store this in your chill chest on the top most rack ; to avoid any cross contamination from other possible food products ( chicken , etc ) . You may want to leave the rubber band on to allow it to stay tidy . If you must you can cover your asparagus cup with a zip lock bag on top . With this method we usually can store asparagus for 5-7 days . If you must keep them longer it maybe better to just freeze them in an air tight bag . after they 're dried out .
I usually slit the prawn flesh just above and along the line of the vein to expose it and to make it easier to then pull out . This is different from butterflying a prawn , which involves a deeper cut ( but not all the way through ) of the prawn along most of its length along the same line as the de-veining cut , but also leaving the tail on usually . <URL> shows the de-veining technique and the butterflying .
When both are used , the fresh yeast is for " added flavor " , the dry for leavening power . Another author who does this is Nancy Silverton . - Some bakers believe that fresh yeast ( a.k.a. cake yeast or wet yeast ) gives a more yeasty flavor to the final product . I do n't think it does . It 's also more perishable , ( sometimes ) more expensive , more difficult to find ( and when you do , it may be near its expiration ) , more challenging to use , and less reliable ( re : reproducible outcome ) . When I encounter a recipe that calls for it , I convert to instant yeast using this old , but reliable chart : <URL> If you <URL> , you 'll find more information ( that may or may not be reliable ) .
Using stock ( or broth ) has two advantages over plain water : It is more flavorful , giving your pie a better , deeper background richness It contains gelatin , which may improve the mouth feel of your pie , giving it a thicker , silkier , richer texture Depending on your particular pie recipe 's filling , this may not make a huge amount of difference , or it could be the difference between a so-so and a great pie .
First , there is no difference between seasoning and reseasoning , unless you need to do some extra work to remove rust ( see instructions below ) . In fact , for new cast iron , scouring is also usually a good idea since you need to get off whatever wax or protective oil the manufacturer or seller may have put onto the cookware . ( They do n't use cooking oil for that sort of thing , believe me . ) If you need to remove rust : use a mixture of salt and oil and scrub that hard into the rust , then rinse thoroughly in hot water . Use steel wool if necessary . Next , scour the pan completely under hot water . Do this for several minutes or until the water runs clean . I 've heard varying things about whether soap or an SOS pad is OK at this step . My personal opinion is that it 's OK , but you must wash the soap completely off before continuing with the seasoning so that your seasoning does n't taste like soap ! Coat the cookware with grease or oil . ( I do this with the whole pan , not just the cooking surface , to reduce the possibility of external rust . ) Crisco , vegetable oil , and lard all work well . Do n't pick something with a low smoking point , or too strong a flavor . Make sure it 's a light coating ... you should n't have pools of oil anywhere on your cookware . Bake your skillet in a 250-350 ° F oven for an hour . If you used liquid oil , you may want to put the cookware in upside down so excess oil drips off . But it 's good to put a cookie sheet or something underneath the cookware to catch the drips if you do ! Let the cookware cool , and wipe off any excess oil . For best results , do this two or three times , though a skillet can be satisfactory after a single treatment . To keep the seasoning happy : Do n't let the cast iron sit too long without using it ( you may notice a rancid smell or flavor if the seasoning turns bad ; I 'm not sure at what point this happens , but it 's happened to me before ) . Do n't cook anything acidic ( e.g. tomatoes ) during the first or second use of your pan . Do n't use dishwashing liquid or soap on the pan ( hot water and scrubbing only ) . After cleaning the pan after each use , wipe it lightly with another bit of oil , using simple vegetable oil . Another trick sometimes used to season Chinese woks : rub Chinese chives over the surface of the cookware when the oil is being heated ( this works best on a stovetop , not in the oven ) . The juice of the chive has sulfur compounds that help remove remaining flavor from the previous coating of the cookware . Be aware that this technique really kicks up a lot of steam and smoke . I 've never tried it on cast iron skillets , but I 'd be curious if anyone out there has .
I would recommend staying away from a grater and either using a knife or a chocolate chipper ( http://www.amazon.com/Lee-43198-Chocolate-Chipper/dp/B00005NUVX ) . The less friction and the more you keep your hands off it ( because your hand will melt it as you have discovered ) the better .
There are noted resources for flavor pairing , many of which you can find on this site . Check out <URL> . You 'll find : <URL> <URL> , including suggestions for <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( here 's a start for your <URL> ) <URL> <URL> For your specific question of what goes well with citrus rind , you already know chocolate is a good match and that you are putting the sauce on brownies . Nuts in your brownies will be a good match too , especially pecans . Caraway , thyme , cardamom , or black pepper might add an unexpected note with orange . Rosemary is a very nice match for lemon . I recently made cookies using orange zest and black pepper that came out quite well . If you want the citrus flavor to dominate I would leave out the berries . Otherwise I 'd definitely use the raspberries , which go well with citrus . The bluberries would be fine , but I would n't consider them your best choice .
I think the key here is that you 've been buying oversized lettuces . Bitterness of lettuce plants is not something under your control . When the lettuce matures ( on the plant ) , it eventually starts flowering ( called " bolting " ) as a way to perpetuate its genes . Once this sets in , the <URL> . The process of bolting is irreversible and if it has commenced in the plant , it will continue on in the cut lettuce head ( perhaps at a diminished rate ) . Big lettuce heads are invariably more mature than the smaller ones , which is why you experience a higher occurrence of them turning bitter . You could try the other suggestions here , but I can not say for/against any of them as I have n't heard of any of them being used to control bitterness . My advice would be to buy small to medium sized lettuces . <URL> . One might be tempted to buy the biggest lettuce on the shelf so as to " maximize " the leaves/dollar , but in the end , you have to decide whether the bitterness is really worth it .
At restaurant supply stores , you can get much larger fine strainers than consumer stores normally have . Another type is the chinoise or china cap , which may or may not be suitable for your needs ; these typically have very fine mesh . These can be available in larger capacities . You may also have success with a tamis , which is a drum type strainer , although these are harder to find .
One question at a time ! ;-) Making evaporated milk from powdered milk ( " dry milk " ) : should be possible . Your suggestion is certainly reasonable , especially since <URL> is basically just " really dry <URL> " but I 've never tried it . Reading a bit on the above links describes subtle differences in the way that evaporated and powdered milk is produced , so of course your results might vary . You may even be able to get away with just mixing an extra powdered milk in water ( i.e. , without heating ) but perhaps you 'll need some heat to dissolve it fully ( or get the " caramelization " you speak of , but I ( personally ) associate caramelization more with sweetened condensed ) . There are also different forumulations of powdered milk ( " instant " versus " non-instant " for example ) , so your results may vary ( e.g. , how difficult it is to dissolve the powder in water ) depending on the type you use . I think both powdered and evaporated milk are generally non-fat ( skimmed ) so you should be okay with ( lack-of ) fat content also . EDIT : turns out that there are varieties of both that have fat or not ; be consistent or substitute further ! Thanks to @Stephen for pointing this out in his answer . Using <URL> in place of evaporated milk and ( reducing the ... ) sugar : should be possible . The opposite situation ( making sweetened condensed from evaporated ) is asked in <URL> . <URL> to add about 1.25 cups of sugar per cup of evaporated milk to yield sweetened condensed . Based on that , I 'd say that if you have at least 1.25 cups of sugar to reduce from the recipe for every cup of evaporated milk , that 's an option also . That seems like a lot of sugar ! Even more so than powdered versus evaporated , I think you 'll be able to tell more of a difference in evaporated versus sweetened condensed because of the caramelization of the sugar in the latter . Also , due to the sugar , sweetened condensed milk does n't require as much processing ( added sugar inhibits bacteria , <URL> ) . As far as reduction amount : I would n't think of it as a " reduce by X percent " , but rather as a reduce by an absolute amount ( volume or weight ) , factored by how much evaporated-to-sweetened is being exchanged . E.g. , if you have 2 cups of sweetened condensed in place of 2 cups of evaporated , reduce sugar by 2.5 cups . Does n't necessarily relate to 30 % reduction or whatever . Over in the Related section there are other questions about conversion to browse ! Good luck !
I 've used yeast that was even older than yours and although the taste of the resulting bread was fine , and it foamed up properly when tested , I found I had to use about 50 % more of it to get the same density of the bread . In the end , I threw it out because it was too much trouble to experiment with it every time .
I usually do n't buy crumbled tofu , but since you have that , I would suggest making tofu burgers . Add another hearty ingredient , like lightly roasted finely chopped walnuts , or baked eggplant cubes . Combine with chopped onions , garlic , grated carrots , and breadcrumbs . Bind with beaten egg . Season with your choice of herbs or spices , such as thyme , oregano , basil . Form into patties , fry lightly in olive oil and sprinkle with tamari ( or soy sauce ) until both sides are browned . Bake until fully cooked in the oven at 375 degrees . Serve on a bun just like a beef patty .
The <URL> seems to be that any moisture level below 35 % will inhibit growth of the C. Botulinum spores that cause botulism . It 's hard to point to true scientific sources because they tend to be protected , but if you spend a few minutes on Google ( try <URL> ) you 'll see that it is in fact confirmed in several of the scientific journals . I seem to be seeing snippets of references ( which I ca n't view the full text of ) that suggest possible growth at moisture levels as low as 16 % , but <URL> have 6 % moisture or lower , which is way too low for botulism . If you are seriously concerned - perhaps you live in a very humid climate and do n't have air conditioning - then toss a <URL> into the container to be sure that the moisture level stays down . The most popular are those little packets of silica gel ( do n't open them ! ) , but there are many more - see Wikipedia 's <URL> . Honestly though , chances are your flaked garlic is already free of C. Botulinum spores after the dehydrating process , and nothing 's going to grow no matter how you store the dried stuff . The above paragraph is only included for the hyper-paranoid . Powdered/flaked garlic is safe to store at room temperature . If you 're actually storing this garlic in the oil ( it 's not entirely clear from your question ) then that 's another story , and theoretically you 're making it possible for the spores to grow again . So it comes down to a question of whether or not the garlic flakes are already clean . That 's extremely likely to be the case , but not a sure thing , and personally , I do n't know if I 'd chance it ; best to follow the same precautions as those for fresh garlic and soak them in vinegar for 24 hours to kill any spores ( although you might as well use fresh garlic in this case ) .
end question
start question
What can I substitute fennel pollen with ?
You might try ground fennel seed , or even anise , but they will not have quite the same quality . You would certainly have to increase the quantity . In situations like this , I have to point out : it does not make sense to make a dish where you are forced to substitute for the ingredient which gives the dish its identity . Instead , make something where you can employ the star ingredient .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
let them sit in a sunny window with southern exposure until they get a little soft . Then put them in a paper bag for a couple of days and they should be edible
It might be there for body , but more likely for the umami kick that tomato past helps with . I bet you could leave it out with no ill effect ... otherwise , try some ketchup . You could also open the small can , use what you need and put the rest in a baggy in the freezer .
Do n't know what the flavor profile of the shredded beef , but a nice flavorful hummus ( Sabra is my favorite brand ) is one of my favorite alternates to mayonnaise in beef sandwiches . Sounds unusual , but it 's a great textural and flavor compliment .
Was curious myself , so I did some more searching . I found a few sites that suggested honey as a alternative , but note that honey is sweeter , so you 'll need to cut back . The majority of resources I found agree that corn syrup is your best and <URL> Traditionally the Malt Syrup ( or Mul Yut ? Mulyeot ? ) was apparently made from barley , but these days apparently mostly made from corn , hence corn syrup being a good substitute . Some <URL> even translate and sell Mulyeot directly as " Corn Syrup " .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
Cocoa powder is made by baking the cocoa beans and then removing all the fat from them , then milling the rest to a powder . In fact , semisweet chocolate is a solid sol ( a colloid formed from homogenically dispersing solid particles ( cocoa dry matter ) in a solid ( cocoa fat ) ) . What you should add is not water , but fat . Before you start , you must be aware that cocoa fat has some very special properties . It melts at a very convenient temperature , so it is solid in the air and melts in the mouth . Plus , it has a very special form of crystalline structure , which allows [ tempering ] . <URL> This means that the substitution wo n't work for some very specific uses like making Belgian chocolates . For chocolate cake or brownies , the texture will be somewhat off , but not too much , so it should deliver acceptable results for the home cook . The taste will also be different ( there is a reason why pure chocolate is so expensive , it only uses real cocoa fat , bars with other fat types like Milka ca n't compare with the original ) . There is also the question of choosing the fat . It should be solid by room temperature . Butter is often used in desserts and has a really good taste , but it does n't mimic cocoa fat that well , because it is n't a pure fat , it is an emulsion of ~ 17 % water in milkfat . So texturewise , shortening is probably a better choice . You can use either , based on whether texture or aroma is more important for you , plus your camp in the this-type-of-fat-is-bad-for-you debate . " Semisweet chocolate " is a loose category . I usually count anything with 40 % to 60 % cocoa mass as " semisweet " . So on average , your mixture should contain 50 % sugar . The ratio of cocoa powder to fat is trickier . Luckily , I have a 90 % chocolate bar here and can tell you that it contains 55 grams of fat ( as given on the package ) . This means that pure chocolate mass has 60.5 % fat . Assuming that your cocoa powder has 15 % fat ( " weakly de-fatted powder " is my best attempt at literal translation ) and that you are using shortening ( 100 % fat ) , we arrive at a ratio of 54 % fat to 46 % cocoa powder . You probably do n't have to be that exact , especially considering the fact that the fat content of cocoa powder is n't exactly 15 % . I 'd just go with a 1:1 ratio - easy to measure , and it gives you a bit more cocoa taste . So the final proportions should be 1 part cocoa powder , 1 part vegetable shortening , and 2 parts sugar . If you feel very mathematically inclined , you can calculate it more exactly for butter and a specific cocoa powder fat content . It is also important to note that in baking , you ca n't just throw everything in and mix . Different mixing sequences result in a different air distribution in the batter , which has very important results on the final texture . So do n't try to imitate chocolate by mixing above ingredients somehow and then dumping them into the bowl . Your recipe already has a correct technique for combining the ingredients , e. g. by creaming the butter with sugar and then slowly adding the flour . It also describes a technique for adding tempered chocolate to the batter , and this one wo n't work for a homemade mixture of sugar , cocoa powder and shortening . To achieve best texture , stick to the recipe 's technique for the components . Whatever they say to do with the original butter in the recipe , do it with a mixture of the butter and the chocolate-substituting fat . Use the original sugar amount together with the chocolate . Treat cocoa powder like flour , best mix them in a separate bowl before adding to the rest . Your result wo n't be exactly like a recipe created with real semisweet chocolate , but only the most discerning eaters will notice it , and most cake eaters are not that discerning . A last word of caution : throughout the answer , I assume that you have actual cocoa powder ( I 'd use non-dutched for a stronger choco taste , but this is a matter of personal preference ) . Instant drink powder like Nesquick does n't contain much real cocoa and is unsuitable for this kind of substitution ( or for any baking purposes ) .
Put the regular ( refined white ) sugar and molasses ( about 2 tablespoons per cup of sugar ) in a food processor and give it a spin . Use more or less molasses as needed to get the color and consistency that you want .
English toffee is very chewy - the kind of stuff that glues your teeth together ! Once it has been cooked and set , it 's not easy to handle and would n't be easy to chop up for a cookie recipe . You 'd possibly be better off with some kind of fudge which is easier to handle but will still hold its shape in a cookie .
In regard to the issues you 've had with the Toffutti Sour Supreme ... wait until you take it off the heat and stir it in right before serving . If it still breaks , then try stirring arrowroot powder , tapioca starch ( avail . in Asian markets ) , or potato starch ( about a tablespoon per cup of sour supreme ) into it before adding to the stroganoff . These starches ( amylopectin ) have a lower gellation point than grain-based starches ( flour , corn , rice ) which are higher in amylose and require heating to a higher temperature for the starch granules to swell and pop , releasing their starch . OR Try <URL> for kosher beef stroganoff where they 're using coconut milk for the kosher cream sauce and say that the coconut flavor does n't come through in the finished dish .
After dumping out a couple of jars of failed not-quite-fermented fennel I wondered , " Could fennel have antimicrobial properties ? " < < facepalm >> Why , yes . Yes it could : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Granted , these are about the essential oil and not the whole plant . So I ca n't be sure this is the problem , but it seems very likely . Maybe a little fennel mixed in with something else wo n't muck up the fermentation process , whereas a whole jar of fennel can . And though it 's hard to know , I suppose there could be a safety concern . Lacto fermentation protects us through ( 1 ) salt , ( 2 ) oxygen depletion , and ( 3 ) acid production . Based on what I saw with the failed batches , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) may have been below normal . If salt-tolerant critters were to survive ... that could be bad .
It might be possible to dissolve the candy , and then boil it down again , foaming it with fresh baking soda when it hits the proper stage . The thing is , the candy has already got the full level of baking soda reactants ( either sodium carbonate or sodium oxide ) from from the first cooking , which may contribute to some off flavors . Instead , if it is enjoyable as is , I would suggest just eating it as a toffee like candy . Otherwise , chalk it up to experience and watch the temperature more closely next time .
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
Joe , Whole wheat puff pastry . It 's expensive , and hard to find , though . Or try another recipe . If the recipe you 're using calls for puff pastry , then the flavor and texture of the puff pastry is going to be a big part of the dish . It never works very well to substitute a primary ingredient in a recipe .
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
Hello <URL> , it is perfectly safe to use stainless steel wool on a Vitreous enamel . I presume that the cast iron skillet has a Vitreous enamel finish . The reason is simple : Vitreous enamel is essentially a type of ceramic and has a hardness of around 5-6 on the <URL> . Steel has around 4-5 on the same scale . This means that generally , you can not damage it with the steel wool . Also no not confuse the " grit " of the steel wool with its hardness :P The only thing that will happen is that the enamel will get very small scratches and that things will stick a bit better in them . You can get rid of most of them with a good polishing compound if they disturb you to much . Personally I would advise you " not to need " to clean it with steel wool in the first place , but is something burned up badly and you do not have heavy cleaning agents nearby steel wool is an acceptable solution . If it is just for cleaning leftovers , usually soaking in soap water and a hard plastic brush does a very good job as well . Remember that even thou Vitreous enamel is very hard and durable it may be damaged by overheating or crack if dropped .
It 's a different flavor . Romano is sharper , more grassy ; parmesan is nuttier and sweeter . I actually prefer romano where I have a lot of other strong flavors . If there 's other sharp flavors in a dish , such as olives , chili pepper , or capers ( e.g. , puttanesca ) , I 'll go with romano which seems to stand up better to the robust flavors . For something with a more subtle flavor such as a ragu bolognese , butter or cream-based sauces , risotto , etc. . I feel that a good parmeggiano reggiano can stand up to the other flavors in the dish without overwhelming them . If cost is your main concern , I 've had some parms from Argentina that are actually pretty good . Reggiano is definitely better , but depending on what you 're using it for , it might be an option . I would n't use it in something like a risotto or fettuchine alfredo where it plays a key role in the dish , but if you 're just grating it on top it will work fine . An in-between option is Grana Padano , which is advertised as a " budget " substitute for reggiano . In my experience , it 's pretty good , but where I live it 's only a little cheaper .
Ok , first of all make sure you are getting French or Italian truffles , not Chinese or Oregon . Some people like the latter but they are quite a bit different . Black truffles do well cooked , while white truffles are usually only used shaved raw over a dish . When I use them , I like to use them in a situation where I will really be able to taste them . A few classic ideas are an omelette , risotto , or pasta with a cream sauce . Those all carry the flavor and aroma of truffles very well . Chop some of it very fine and put it in the dish and then slice the rest paper thin ( with a mandoline if possible ) over the finished food right before serving .
One of the most popular things I 've seen sage used for is tea . You just dry the leaves , steep as you would regular tea leaves ( personally I like it with ginger root if I have some handy ) , and then maybe a little honey or lemon . Sage is anti-bacterial , which is a nice bonus . Meat-wise , I like to use sage with pork chops , either as part of a marinade or just chopped and rubbed onto the pork and then grilled . Sage also goes great with chicken . Roll the sage in your hands to release the oils , then either chop very finely or mash with a mortar and pestle . Mix with a little salt and rub onto chicken breasts , and sautee in oil or butter ( or grill it ) . Veggie-wise , I think it pairs very well with sliced , sauteed carrots . It goes very well with potatoes , try sweating some onion in a pan with a little oil or butter , adding some potato slices , and right before they 're ready add fresh chopped sage . It 's also a great ingredient in stuffing , dried or fresh . I had sage-laced cornbread once , it was pretty delicious . Was n't there for the making of , so not sure if there was any special preparation needed , but the end result was nice . In fact , a friend of mine a while back who was a baker loved using sage in various breads , but baking is one of my weak spots so I ca n't really give you any specifics other than " this combination works , check Google for recipes " :) At one point , I heard someone refer to what they called " sage fritters " , which were basically sage dredged in seasoned flour and egg , then quickly fried in oil . I did a quick search to find the source , and did n't see it , but did come across a very interesting idea : <URL> ( these are much more of a true fritter than what I first mentioned ) . If you get tired of it while it 's fresh and you 're running around like a lunatic trying to find uses for it , there 's always freezing . I freeze or dry any large quantities of herbs at the end of the summer , there are a few methods available . You can reference <URL> , I feel like there 's a better one about specifically freezing herbs on this site but I ca n't find it right now . The short of it is , some people have good luck freezing whole leaves as they are , some people prefer to chop them or put them in the food processor with some oil or stock , and freeze into cubes . Both methods have advantages and disadvantages . Alton Brown has a great method for drying described in <URL> . Essentially , you layer an air filter ( like you 'd use in your central air unit ) with an herb . Place another filter on top , layer it again . Continue as much as you want , then strap them all to a box fan . Instead of weeks to months , you should have dried herbs in a couple days , max . You can <URL> , skip to about 2:30 in . Bonus : the same episode describes his method of freezing herbs , that 's about 1:00 in on the same link . Speaking of Alton Brown , he recommends herb vinegar - you 'll find how he makes it on the ( text transcript ) link in this paragraph . There are also a TON of medicinal uses and has been used for thousands of years for various remedies . Since this is a cooking site I 'm hesitant to list them all ( there are a lot ) , but you can read more about the most popular ones <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . This is non-culinary , but you can use it to " smudge " , which is often tied to cleansing rites , but can also be considered just a simple incense/potpourri . I had a hippie friend once whose house always smelled like smoldering sage . More details can be found <URL> . Can you tell I grow sage and generally have an abundance at the end of the season ?
end question
start question
What 's the US equivalent of double and single cream ?
In the UK , single cream is a milk product with at least 18 % butterfat . Double cream has 48 % butterfat . Neither are common in the US . If you can find clotted cream , which is 55 % fat , then there is a chance of making double cream at home by diluting it . As some clotted creams have a cooked taste , there may be other solutions .
Honeycomb can be made with honey or molasses but the flavor will not be the same . There is n't a US equivalent - we have molasses , but it 's darker . You can substitute corn syrup in recipes where it is n't the principal ingredient , but here that would not work . That being said , my local grocery store has a British food section which carries golden syrup . You probably do n't have to substitute , you just need to find it in your local grocer .
In the UK , single cream is a milk product with at least 18 % butterfat . Double cream has 48 % butterfat . Neither are common in the US . If you can find clotted cream , which is 55 % fat , then there is a chance of making double cream at home by diluting it . As some clotted creams have a cooked taste , there may be other solutions .
This would be what I would call stewing . From the <URL> : " A dish cooked by stewing , especially a mixture of meat or fish and vegetables with stock . " I suppose you could also coin your own , new term call " modified-reduction-stewing . " Oh , wait , that 's mine ! Make up your own ; -- )
Pan frying means letting the food sit in the pan and occasionally stirring or flipping . It tends to be done with larger pieces of food , and at a medium to medium-high heat . Sautéing means shaking the pan back and forth - making the food " jump " , if you 're translating directly . It 's done at a high heat , for a short time , usually with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped ingredients . Shallow frying , according to some references , refers to the food being partially ( halfway ) submerged in hot oil and flipped once , as opposed to deep-frying where the food is fully-submerged the whole time .
It is completely a matter of aesthetics , other than the tendency of a metal plate to bring its contents to room temperature more quickly due to its higher thermal conductivity compared to ceramic .
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
No , it wo n't work . Michael 's comment explains why . Whipping cream is not just fat and water mixed , it is fat and water emulsified . This is a big difference . If you had some special reason to do this on a regular basis , you could get it to work by adding emulsifiers . You can beat any fat with water and lecithine or xanthan and get a creamy result . As far as I know , this is how plant based cream substitutes work . But if the issue is that you just do n't have whipping cream right now at home , then it is easier to go buy whipping cream than to go find emulsifiers ( I buy mine online , do n't know if there are brick-and-mortar B2C stores which sell them ) . If for some reason you absolutely ca n't do it in time , I would suggest using a different filling . Pastry cream works well with millefeulle , buttercream can work too , lightened with whipped eggwhites if necessary .
Best thing to do is to keep them out of the light in an cool dark dry place . I usually put them in a hessian bag to try and keep the moisture away . Do n't store them in the fridge or anywhere that gets direct sunlight .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
For my 2 cents , I 've never ever used a parchment lid in recipes that call for it . I think Joe 's explanation of the purported purpose is right , but I just ca n't see it making a whole lot of difference , and I 've never noticed any moisture problems in the dishes I 've made this way . I 'd love to hear from someone who says they can really see a difference having made a dish both ways .
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
In the Caribbean green plantains are treated much like potatoes . One technique that is common is twice-frying , usually with a soak in water either before the first fry , in between , or both . Soaking plantains allows them to absorb a little water to help steam the inside as it fries , much like one would do for American-style french fries ( UK : chips ) . One example of this technique is <URL> . The Puerto Rican classic cookbook " Cocina Criolla " by Carmen Valldejuli calls for soaking the plantain pieces in room temperature water with salt and crushed garlic for 15 minutes as well as dipping them in water immediately before the second fry . Like many potatoes , green plantains will often turn brown if left out in the air for too long after being peeled , soaking in water also helps prevent this from occurring as well as reducing the amount of free starch on the outside which can cause over-browning . Elsewhere , both in the Americas and Africa , green plantains are cut very thinly and fried into <URL> ( UK : crisps ) . These are usually 1-2mm thick and also benefit from presoaking . If you decide not to fry them you could also boil them in salted water like a potato or boil them in vinegar with onions , garlic , and spices to make an escabeche . You could also partially cook them in salted water or stock then bake them in the oven .
According to my local friendly butcher , Gammon is a type of bacon that is specifically from the hind quarters . Bacon is defined as any pork that has been cured through a process of salting , either as a dry-cure or a wet-cure where the meat is either packed in salts or brine respectively . With wet curing , other ingredients can be added to impart other flavours , such as beer or sugars . Typically , rashers are made from the body of the pig with streaky bacon coming from the belly , and back bacon coming from , well , the back ( so the same cut as a pork loin chop ) . Bacon joints are typically made by combining cuts of bacon from the shoulder and collar , whilst the hind quarters are sold as gammon with a premium on price . Traditionally ham referred to cooked gammon , although in modern uses , it is often extended to include other cooked bacon joints , which include moulded meats made from combining cuts together with other additives to help bind them .
The way I do it is put 1-2 tbsp of oil in my pot , add 1/3 cup or so of corn , cover , and heat on medium until it starts popping , then turn down a bit and shake the pot occasionally until it is all popped . So , not oil free , but not a whole lot of oil either .
According to Cook 's Illustrated 's article <URL> ( possible paywall ) : Briefly soaking meat in a solution of baking soda and water raises the pH on the meat 's surface , making it more difficult for the proteins to bond excessively , which keeps the meat tender and moist when it 's cooked . This is almost certainly the effect of the baking powder : to help create a more tender product . This is probably especially necessary given the lack of bread products ( which provides starch that physically interferes with protein linking , and helps retain moisture in the , thus producing a more tender meatball ) . The tartaric acid is probably there because recipe authors are used to pairing it with baking soda which is necessary when it is used to create leavening in baked goods . In the meatballs , it will simply tend to help make them more acidic , although it will also neutralize some of the baking soda . I have surveyed several recipes on the web which include baking soda in meatball recipes ; they variously claim that it helps make the meatballs lighter or more tender .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
It 's really a matter of preference . Some people like the salty dimension that butter gives along with clotted cream and jam , others think the cream is enough saturated fat to be going on with .
Soy sauce , sake or mirin and sugar are the usual ingredients in a teriyaki sauce . The rice wines in particular are vital for an authentic teriyaki flavour . So the question is somewhat moot : onions are n't usually found in teriyaki sauce anyway . The onions naturally add flavour to your marinade : if you like it , leave them in , if you do n't , take them out . The onions wo n't have any major chemical effect on the marination process . Personally I would ditch the olive oil , replace it with toasted sesame oil and add garlic and ginger for a more rounded and authentically flavoured East Asian marinade .
It depends greatly on how hungry I am . :-) 350F for about an 60-90 minutes , depending on how many are in there . 425F for about 40-60 if I 'm hungry and impatient . Microwave on high for a few minutes ( few holes poked in it with a fork ) if I 'm really hungry and really impatient . They 're done when a fork goes in easily .
end question
start question
Possible to over-knead dough ?
Cookbooks describe the state as " smooth and elastic " I think this is a reasonable description . When the dough is first mixed it is very wet and sticky . As it is mixed you can see a lot of clumps and heterogeneous textures . As the proteins in the flour mix with water they form gluten and the kneading folds the elastic gluten over itself again and again making sheets . The dough becomes less sticky and wet and more springy . The texture becomes completely homogeneous . Kneading by hand it is impossible to over knead this type of dough . I have read that it is possible to over knead in a machine . In this case , supposedly , the protein sheets eventually rip up enough that you lost what you created and the dough reverts . I have kneaded in a machine for a long time and never personally seen this effect .
Nutella is over half sugar by weight ; peanut butter might be more like 5-10 % depending on brand/style . That already sounds like enough that it wo n't make a good one-for-one substitution in most things , especially anything that 's not already pretty sweet . It probably also means that it 'll have a slightly different resulting texture ; nutella is already a bit less thick ( probably again affected by the sugar ) , and I believe this is pretty obvious when heated , though it 's been a while since I tried .
If you punch down a no-knead loaf , on average , you 'll get a more consistent crumb and fewer large holes in the finished loaf .
i STRONGLY recommend against it . i can speak from experience that the sudden change in temperature can cause glass baking dishes ( particularly when they go from as high of a heat required by no-knead bread to a cool room temp ) to shatter and explode ! i had a pyrex dish go supernova on me once , sending hot flying glass shards all over the kitchen . how i did n't get hit i 'll never know , but it melted holes in our floor and left scorch marks ! more information from Consumer Reports : <URL> you can pick up some heavy pots suitable for no-knead break baking at thrift stores and garage sales for a song . if you can find a cast-iron dutch oven , even better ! i urge you to dig around a bit . the results are really worth it .
It is almost impossible to reduce the sweetness of cookie dough once made , without further reducing the quality . The closest you could come would be to create a second batch of cookie dough ingredients with reduced sugar , and combine it with your existing dough . However , it will be difficult to achieve good integration of the two batches , and even if you do , the extra working of the first batch from the mixing will create additional gluten , making tougher cookies . In this case , you might want to try some sort of tart lemon glaze or perhaps a very bittersweet chocolate icing to compliment your cookies and reduce the impression of sweetness . On the other hand , except for butter , sugar cookies contain no expensive ingredients . It may not be worth trying to salvage this batch . In the end , this is probably a lesson learned that your particular recipe is not to your liking as is . Next time , you will want to either reduce the sugar , or use another recipe .
The reason popcorn can be popped is that they have a water-impermeable hull , which contains the pressure of the steam created inside the kernel as it is heated , until it passes a critical point . When that happens , the steam explodes out , breaking the hull , and creating the popcorn . Some of the other puffed products are more complex , as the link you have already found shows . Potatoes do not have a water impermeable skin , and so can not be puffed in the same manner as popcorn . There is a dish -- sometimes called puffed potatoes -- where the steam inside fried potato pieces is used to puff them up , but it will not be similar in texture to puffed grain . See <URL> , for example . They will be more akin to fluffy french fries ( or chips , as they say in Britain ) . There is another dish called puffed potatoes , which are essentially a choux paste with potatoes that are baked or deep fried . They are a great dish , but are a different type of thing entirely . See <URL> from the great Jacques Pepin .
Most small bakeries use small rotary mixers ( like a Kenwood that stands as high as a man ) that handle batches up to about 100lb - using a dough hook for bread . The really big bakeries use trough mixers with blades that turn along the length of the trough . A typical batch is around 600lb .
Do n't think of that as dough . This looks like basically making a quiche base to put pizza toppings on . I do n't see any reason to think this recipe wo n't be stable but it wo n't be anything like pizza crust . Still it sounds tasty .
Doing both is possible , but there is no point . For both , you need a <URL> , and this is a good contender for a gadget not worth its shelf space in a home kitchen . For a good chocolate , you have to mix the melted combination of base chocolate and additional ingredients for hours ( Wikipedia says 6 for low quality , up to 78 for best quality ) , and this is what the conche does for you . For a nice structure and shine , you also want to temper the chocolate afterwards and cool it under appropriate conditions . Chocolate is made by pressing roasted cocoa beans to cocoa liquor ( consists of cocoa butter and cocoa solids ) . The dry remainder of the beans is then ground to cocoa powder ( and sometimes also deacidified in a <URL> ) . The cocoa butter can be separated from the liquor . The pure liquor can be tempered and sold as high-end baking chocolate , also called " unsweetened chocolate " in the US ( low-end blocks of " baking chocolate " are mostly cocoa powder mixed with hydrogenated vegetable fat ) . To create bars of chocolate , chocolate creators like Lindt put cocoa liquor together with sugar in a conche to create different grades of dark chocolate ( US name : semi-sweetened chocolate ) , or also add milk or milk solids to create milk chocolate . Lower grade semisweet chocolate has cocoa powder added , so a 72 % chocolate will always have 72 % cocoa bean products and 28 % sugar , but depending on the brand , the ratio of cocoa solids and cocoa butter will vary , which will have effect on its behavior in confectionery ( a higher ratio of cocoa butter will produce a smoother chocolate with more shine ) . If you insist on changing the darkness of a chocolate you have and achieve reasonable quality , you have to throw together the needed ingredients , conche them , and temper them . For example , you could start with 100 g 60 % semi-sweet dryish chocolate , add 80 g cocoa butter and 20 g cocoa powder , and you will end up with 200 g of smooth 80 % semi-sweet chocolate , if you do it right . Given the prices for high quality raw materials , energy requirements and space taken up by a conche , and the availability of different grades of chocolate , I do n't see any reason to go through all of this instead of directly buying good quality 80 % chocolate . This all assumes that the final product you want is pure chocolate . If you are making , say , a chocolate flavored custard , where you mix ganache into custard , and you have a chocolate bar darker than what the recipe specifies , you can get a perfectly good solution by first dissolving sugar in the warm cream and making the ganache with it , and then adding it to the custard . Other recipes which work with chocolate mixes ( e.g. cake layer batters ) function in a similar way - add your ingredient ( cocoa powder if your chocolate is too light , sugar if it is too dark ) to a wet ingredient which will dissolve it , and then mix the melted chocolate in as usual .
With every ( edible ) part of an animal , you should consider the former duty of the piece of meat at hand . This will influence the internal structure and thus the best method to prepare it . So throwing all chicken offal into one pot at the same time is probably not the wisest idea . Lets " dissect " what we are dealing with here : Liver and kidneys Basically no muscle fibers , just a very tender large gland . Keep in mind that there are no fibrous parts that " melt down " during a long cooking process , just tender stuff that gets very hard and dry when overcooked . So short is the key here - a quick sear in a hot pan and you are good to go . Depending on your personal preference , slightly pink or " just not pink any more " would be a good point to serve . Note that especially for organs from larger animals careful preparation is important : remove all hard parts like " vessels " and excess fat and wash kidneys well or soak them for half an hour to an hour . Some suggest soaking in milk . Hearts and stomachs Just the opposite - a hardworking muscle , garnished with a good amount of collagen . Here , you need time to break down the collagen . When you heat heart or gizzard , first the muscle parts toughen up , then the collagen breaks down and the piece gets tender again . Braising is a common method to acchieve good results . For chicken hearts , sources vary between 15 and 25 minutes braising after roasting/frying them in your pan . It may depend on the quality of meat at hand , where your personal " just right " is . Larger animals ' hearts may need much longer , a very old cook book of mine suggests 1.5 hours for beef hearts . Chicken gizzards are even tougher than hearts : did you notice the white lump of collagenous fibers on each side when cleaning them ? Give it time to get tender . It may take from thirty minutes to over an hour - sources vary .
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
Since my pizza dough recipe makes three 12 " pies and I usually make two at a time , I regularly freeze extras just as you did . To thaw , I have used both the countertop and refrigerator method . Thawing on the countertop produced the best results . The dough rolled as usual and the crust ( a thin one ) was crispy on the outside and chewy on the inside after baking .
What about using mochi , an Asian pounded rice paste ? It 's a similar -- though not identical -- texture , it 's available in sweet and savory forms , and it 's held together by the starch in rice rather than anything gelatin , so it 's vegetarian . You can get plain unflavored mochi at many Asian food stores ; it may take some looking , as it 's more often sold sweet and filled with bean paste in the US . I 've had it in savory Korean dishes and I believe it 's used in savory Korean dishes as well .
You probably do n't even need to freeze them . Chocolate has a very long shelf life in your pantry , from 1-2 years depending on fat/milk content . You can freeze it , but it may affect the texture or appearance .
I have seen pot roast of Shitake . Pot roast = over-cooked obviously . There were pot roast for : duck roast , chicken roast , pork trotters , buddhist faux meat , Buddha jumped over the wall roast . All of them amply roasted with shitakes . Okay , for what I have tried , I encountered two kinds of shitake pot roast sweet and sour sweet and salted soy-sauced The Buddhist faux meat : I saw the usual buddhist faux meat the permutations of which I think are due to diverse combination of various flours , soy and other beans . The thick gravy is dark brown with obvious scent of dark sweet soy sauce and black vinegar . And the over-cooked shitakes are chewy juicy with the wonderful gravy . Chicken pot roast : Then there was another time , the chicken pot roast . The gravy was thinner but not sour . It was a whole chicken that was boiled in sauce with the shitake . From what I understand , the shitake roast was done first and then the chicken submerged in the boiling cauldron at the end of the roast . At the last 10 minutes may be . Shitake juiced up with gravy enriched with chicken taste/flavour . Chewing on the shitake You should try overcooked shitake that has absorbed the juicy gravies . Chocolate mousse cake is nowhere in comparison just as you sink your teeth into it and the juice runs down your chin . And then you lick your fingers after you had them wipe your chin . Slow cooked shitake pot roast . I am sure there were spices involved . I also believe they used shitakes that had been stabilised by drying ( i.e. dried shitakes ) . Otherwise , I doubt fresh shitakes could take the strain of being overcooked .
There is an excellent answer to this question on the Physics SE : <URL> I will summarise what I think is the most cogent part here . This does work up to a point . The bubbles formed by boiling water are filled with steam , so if anything colder than the steam ( ie < 100 ° C ) touches a bubble the steam will immediately condense and the bubble will collapse . Therefore provided the surface of your spoon is cold , it will help to prevent boiling over . If it 's a long boil and the spoon heats up to 100 ° C it will no longer work . This is why a wooden spoon is recommended : metal would heat up too quickly .
Butter and egg yolks have very different profiles in terms of their uses in recipes and constituent parts . Butter usually has 80-85 % fat by weight , while egg yolks are only about 25-30 % fat . Butter has only a trace amount of milk proteins , while egg yolks typically have 15 % or more protein by weight . Butter has only a small amount ( about 15 % ) of water , while egg yolks are about 50 % water . And then there are all sorts of differences in trace chemicals , which also have big effects when cooked ( e.g. , eggs coagulate , while butter melts ) . I 've never tried such a strict substitution myself . But extra egg yolks are common in many baked goods , and I 've seen people substitute a single egg yolk for a small amount of fat or the reverse . As for the effect of additional egg yolks in cookies , Serious Eats <URL> : Egg yolks also provide some moisture and protein , but more importantly they provide a well-emulsified source of fat . When cooked , egg yolk forms a tender protein coagulum that can keep cookies tender and fudge-like . A high proportion of egg yolk leads to a more brownie-like texture in a finished cookie . Meanwhile , if you lose butter , you 'll be eliminating significant amounts of fat and flavor . The texture will also be altered significantly : since butter melts during baking , it contributes significantly to cookie " spread " rate . ( The extra moisture from egg yolks may help the cookie dough to spread , but it may make it harder to work with . ) If your recipe involves creaming butter and sugar together , the texture may also be affected , because creaming introduces air bubbles that can lighten the cookies . Eggs too contribute to leavening , but that effect is mostly from whites . In general , egg yolks are going to provide much more moisture than butter but lower ( though still important ) amounts of fat . You may need to play with the other liquid proportions to get a useful batter . And the protein and tendency to coagulate will alter the structure of the cookies considerably . My guess is that most cookies with such a substitution will come out fairly dense with an odd fudge-like texture and " eggy " flavor . If you 're substituting a single egg yolk for a small amount of butter , it might work with a little tweaking . But if your recipe has large amounts of butter , the final cookies will be very different and perhaps unpalatable . In that case , you 'll probably have to substitute a few different things for the butter to produce acceptable results ( specifically something else to add sufficient fat and to balance the flavor of the cookies ) . Or , an easier solution would be to find a recipe or type of cookie that does n't require butter . Producing good results when removing one of the major components of a recipe will often require significant amounts of experimentation .
Circular bed of sticky sushi rice , topped with a drizzle of spicy mayo as the sauce and chunks of sashimi . cut into pizza slices .
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
No , it is n't possible to over soak wood chips , chunks , planks , or any other size that you want to throw on the grill ( within reason , I would n't soak them for weeks because the water would get scummy ) . In fact , the directions given often grossly underestimate optimal soaking time . I assume this is because the manufacturer does n't want to scare people off by saying " soak for 12-24 hours before use . " Wood smokes better when it 's wet . If it 's dry , it catches on fire and produces less smoke for a shorter period of time . What you really want is for the wood to be thoroughly wet so that it smolders rather than flames and produces lots of smoke for a long time . As you would expect , the larger the piece of wood , the longer it will smoke and the longer you need to soak it . My general soak times are as follows : Small Chips - These are very small , coin sized . Generally get totally saturated in 2-3 hours . Large Chips - Between Small Chips and Chunks . Soak for 12 - 24 hours . Chunks - These tend to be about 1/2 to a whole fist sized . These want to soak for at least 24 hours . Planks - For plank smoking . Soak for 8 - 12 hours . You can always soak for less time , you just wo n't get quite as much smoke production . Judge the need based on what you 're cooking . If you want a little smoke on a steak that you 're only cooking for 5-8 mins , then you do n't need to worry about it . If you 're trying to smoke salmon , it matters more . If you want to smoke a butt for 12 hours , it matters a lot .
end question
start question
What type of Paprika is the generic stuff one buys at a grocery store chain ?
This information should be indicated on the label : sweet , sweet &amp; sour , spicy , smoked ... Generic paprika is sweet and will probably not have much flavor ( that is why paprika can be used in paella together with saffron - see <URL> )
I believe you 're thinking of " mignardises . " This is what they call it on the french laundry menu , and others . Another possibility is " Petit Fours " , which are small pastries typically served at the end of a meal . I believe there is some overlap in the use of the two terms .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
One reason to make your own butter is that you get distinctly different flavours depending on the type of cream you use . If you use fresh cream you get sweet butter which is popular in North America , Australia and Britain , but less easy to come by in continental Europe . If you use a cultured cream like Crème fraîche you get cultured butter , which is common throughout most of Europe . Cultured butter is slightly soured by lactic acid . It has a fuller , more complex flavour than sweet butter . If you decide to make it , be sure that you do n't use a cultured cream that includes artificial thickeners . The ingredient list should read something like " pasteurised cream , lactic-acid culture " ( apologies if that 's not accurate ; I 'm translating from Swedish ) . I have a couple of other reasons why I personally want to make butter . First of all my four year old son has been asking how butter is made , and this would be a great way show him . The second reason is that I 'm curious as to how real buttermilk tastes ( the buttermilk in the supermarkets is fermented milk ) . And last of all , I noticed that my beurre noir sauce was working out much better when I lived in Australia , so I 'd like to do some side-by-side comparisons with European butter .
The resultant cheese in your first link will be a fresh , soft cheese , nothing like either of the Parmesan or cheddar cheeses mentioned in your second link . It is also an acid-based cheese , not a made with either rennet or bacterial cultures as are most other cheeses . Parmesan is a very long aged cheese . Cheddar is a. . . well ... cheddared cheese ( cheddaring is a process which reduces the moisture content of the curds ) that is then aged for varying periods of time . The fresh cheese in your first link will not serve you well in the same roles as either Parmesan or Cheddar . While I realize these products may not be available easily where you live , they are very distinctive and hard to substitute for with homemade products -- they just also not the kind of cheese that is normally made at home . The home made cheese described is most similar to an unaged feta ( although not goat 's milk ) , or a Mexican queso fresco .
From my answer on another question ( that justkt linked in the comments ) : <URL> Arborio rice , the classic choice for risotto , contains roughly 19 to 21 percent amylose . However , that is not the only difference . The desirable " bite " in risotto is due to a defect in Arborio rice called chalk . During maturation , the starch structures at the grain 's core deform , making for a firm , toothy center when cooked . Sorry , but for the best risotto , you really need an appropriate rice .
This sounds yummy ! I 'd recommend cooking sous vide ( SV ) as you suggest ( 130 F for 1-3 hrs ) . I tend not to season in the SV bag at all because salt &amp; spices often turn out oddly ; for example , raw herbs/onion/garlic are far stronger and taste " uncooked " . Figuring out how to spice SV takes a fair amount of experimentation and is best done with dried &amp; powdered herbs/spices instead of fresh ones . VERY IMPORTANT : Before cooking SV trim excess fat from the steak After cooking take the meat from the SV bag and DRY it thoroughly before searing ! If you 're planning to use bag juices , first bring them to a full boil in another pot and skim off the scum ( myoglobin " blood " ) , then use whatever is left as your meat juice . To sear , pre-heat the cast iron sear to a very high temperature ( ~ 500 ) and use a high-temperature oil like peanut . The sear should be at VERY high heat for only 30 seconds or so per side - if you leave it on much longer you 'll lose the beautiful 130 degree edge-to-edge miracle that should be your reward . Using butter for the sear is not a good idea as either the butter will be destroyed by the properly high heat OR the steak will be destroyed by keeping the cast iron 's heat low enough for the butter . Rather , use compound butter as a topper for presentation . As for using a torch , I 've used a brulee torch a few times and the heat &amp; coverage is insufficient to sear a steak well with my limited experience . You can sign your name on the steak with it , but getting a good , even edge-to-edge Maillard crust is very tough . Using a MAPP torch is quite a bit better ; MAPP gas is flavorless , it 's hotter than propane or butane , and MAPP torches tend to fan out broader flames , but I still do n't think they create as dense or flavorful a crust as a pan-sear . Moreover ANY torch runs a likelihood of flat-out burning areas of the meat , and that 's especially true for a first-timer ! Let 's talk about salt before going any further . I 've always salted meat before grilling . But SV is a completely different ballgame . Salting before SV does n't add much flavor for you on short cooks and hurts badly on longer ones ( cures the meat ) . There are online arguments about this , but I prefer salting only after SV and preferably after searing . Taste tests support this post-SV salting approach - check out <URL> for a great take on the subject . If you keep the searing time appropriately short you wo n't have to rest the meat before serving . The meat is still incredibly juicy and does n't need time to reabsorb fluids . As for what to do with a sauce , I 'd go for the butter instead and incorporate a steak-friendly sauce into a side dish . A quality hunk of well-marbled dry-aged beef should sing with this preparation and I 'd put it center-stage to sing solo , with the side dish 's sauce grooving nearby ready to join in on the chorus .
It is to cool it down without dilluting it - ice cubes would melt . And yes , you could simply cool the entire bottle , but it would n't look that fancy . Note that some purists would wrinkle their noses and insist that whisky1 is best enjoyed at room temperature and perhaps with a small dash of spring water . 1 And I 'm soooo not going into a whisky vs. whiskey debate here .
For vegetable knives , the main advantage of the front-side single bevel is that it 's easier to make super-thin cuts . For example , a test of knife skill involves paring daikon radish to remove the peel , then continuing to cut to make a long continuous paper-thin strip , longer than you would be able to make if you just sliced it . See , for example , <URL> People who have mastered this skill can also make remarkably fast matchstick cuts after making the long piece , and the lack of back bevel may reduce the amount of food that sticks to the knife . Some of these single-bevel knives that features a slightly concave backside ( urasuki ) , which may also reduce the amount of adherence of food to the knife . For crab knives , the honing is on the opposite side to the hand ( the back of the knife ) , which may reduce the amount of shell fragments that could embed themselves into the meat , and probably allows the meat to cut more cleanly . In practice , though , most Japanese households use dual-beveled knives . Single-bevel is more common in professional kitchens , especially in the Kansai area where fancy cutting techniques are used in presentation to a greater extent than in Tokyo or north Japan . Although I have a nice nakiri knife and a cheap santoku , both are dual-beveled . Knives meant for cutting regular fish or meat are usually , but not always , dual-beveled , the exception again mostly being for professionals . ( I think yanagiba and sushi knives are usually single-bevel , but are again mostly used in professional kitchens and almost never at home ) . I thought sobakiri and udonkiri were typically single-bevel to help push the cut noodles away , but more recently I am less sure that the single-bevel is as common as I had previously thought for soba or udon knives . The Japanese wikipedia entry for usuba knives suggests that the single-bevel edge is more durable , so , if true , that would be an advantage in high volume restaurant use . In my experience a thin , well sharpened Japanese blade may chip more easily than a thicker blade , so that resonates with me , even though I 'm not 100 % sure the notion that a single bevel is more durable is more than received wisdom . With practice , I think you can get slightly more precision cuts with a single bevel than with dual-bevel knives , however , I do n't think they are as easy to use for cooks with average knife skills .
If you can find <URL> ( some nail polish removers ) , you can probably do <URL> .
According to the <URL> , their products will last 24 months from the date of production . They should also have a use by date on the label . According to <URL> , it should be good at least one year from the purchase date , although they recognize that it 's not exact . I 'd say that you could probably try it -- if it 's unopened , the sterilization as well as the high sugar content should work in your favor . ( It 's also better if it 's stored in a cool , dark place -- you were n't keeping it on your windowsill , were you ? )
It sounds like it was gassed to stay bright green and firm but the seeds are showing how old it actually is . The pith ( the whitish veins on the sides ) is also firm on a fresh pepper , if its limp probably due to age .
I generally put garlic , rosemary , and thyme in the pan for a roast . As the meat juices and butter flow into the pan , they make a wonderful infusion of flavour that is well worth bathing the roast in . I 'm all for it - I feel the roasts I 've made and basted are better than the ones I did n't baste . That said , I have n't done any double-blind studies .
Cream sherry is very sweet - likely too sweet for most recipes that do n't explicitly mention it . If a recipe simply calls for " sherry " , it usually means dry sherry , as that 's the most common kind of available . In fact , I do n't think I 've ever even seen " very dry " around here . So I would definitely stick with the dry . As for brand , I believe that sherry is the brand ( somebody correct me if I 'm wrong ) . If you see several different bottles all labeled sherry , I do n't think it matters too much which one you pick - at least if you 're using it for cooking and not drinking . P.S. . If you 're using this as a substitute for rice wine , the commonly-accepted substitute is indeed dry sherry .
What you are looking for is called wholemeal flour . Here 's a quick US to UK baking translation guide . US on the left , UK on the right : All-purpose flour = plain flour bread flour = strong flour ( both have extra gluten ) whole wheat flour = wholemeal flour 1 stick of butter is 113g ( get a scale , trust me ) 1 large egg = 1 medium egg
The two main issues with ground coffee are : The coffee losing its aroma . The aroma/flavor of coffee is quite volatile , and will evaporate very easily . The solution to this is an airtight container , with as little head room in it as possible . The coffee soaking up moisture from the air . This makes the coffee ... unpleasant . The best solution I 've found ( in a hot humid climate ) is to put it in the freezer . It is the nature of refrigeration to leech all of the moisture from the freezer compartment . In summary , the best I 've found is a small airtight box in the freezer .
The packs typically contain the equivalent of 15mL of gelatine and are in powder form . Each pack is measured to set 500mL or two cups of liquid . As far as weight , it feels like about 6-7 grams of gelatin . The dominant brand seems to be <URL> . As for the bloom , I 'm not really sure as I have n't seen it published on the label . However , I have actually made marshmallow using the same Alton Brown recipe and it seemed pretty tolerant . So slightly different bloom should be fine . I also deviated with the corn syrup and did n't use it ( I avoid corn ) . The end result was still awesome .
The key thing here is a substance called <URL> and it is found in your Incredible , Edible Egg ! Doing the adding of the egg one-by-one , plus a few other things are ... in the service of creating a stable emulsion of liquid and fat in the batter . When this is done correctly , the cake will have a springy , even crumb , great flavor , and light texture . If the batter is not properly emulsified , the resulting cake can be uneven and flat , flavorless , and have a heavy texture . It 's even possible for the cake to " fall " or sink into itself when baking . An emulsion is the suspension of small globules of one liquid in a second liquid with which the first will not mix , such as oil and vinegar . To create an emulsion , we slowly add eggs to the butter mixture , one at a time , beating rapidly to suspend the water from the butter and egg whites in the fats from the butter and egg yolks . Lecithin , an emulsifier found in eggs , helps to stabilize the emulsion , as does aeration from steady , rapid beating . Adding the eggs slowly makes it easier disperse the liquid , and promote even suspension of liquid in fat . So to recap , liquid and fat do not mix together . The egg has Lecithin that acts like a bond that keeps those 2 together . By flooding the mixture with the substance that will act like a binder ( egg ) , you actually make it harder for all the water in the butter / eggs to bind to the fat in the butter / eggs . Picture of Emulsion Take note that in this picture , the oil to make the mayonnaise was added too fast in the failed picture . Take a look at thesproatingseed.com link below for even more information on emulsion ! This answer was made possible by <URL> , <URL> , and <URL>
I would say no . The function of the egg in the cake is to go in raw , mix with the other stuff , and once the raw egg has penetrated and coated the other ingredients thoroughly , bind it all together with that bouncy , sticky solidified eggy property which comes into existence as the egg cooks . Cooking the egg first all by itself , then adding to a cake would be like drying some crazy glue , then grinding up that hardened crust and putting the resulting powder between two things you want to stick together . The gluing action is all over when the glue has dried .
A cooling rack serves two primary purposes . First , it allows the cookies ( or other baked good ) to cool faster by letting air circulate completely around the cookie . Second , it prevents the steam escaping from the cookies from soaking the bottoms , and other cookies placed on top .
end question
start question
What is slow cooking and what it is good for ?
Generally , slow-cooking means any food preparation method which relies on using low-heat for a long amount of time . Barbecues , smokers , luau pits , and low-heat ovens could all qualify . The benefit of slow-cooking , generally , is that food becomes incredibly tender , as all of its connective tissues break down . Also , flavor can infuse over time and provide deeper results than with virtually any other method . Lastly , long-cooking times create a celebratory atmosphere where food is the focal point of a social gathering . Specifically , slow-cooking refers to the ' slow-cooker ' a counter-top set-up which has a large , electronically heated ceramic bowl and a glass lid . It usually has only a few settings , such as ' low ' , ' medium ' , and ' high ' . The benefit of slow-cooking in a slow-cooker is mainly convenience . These units are safe enough to turn on before work and return to before dinner , with fully-cooked , piping hot food ready to go . The slow-cooker is geared towards ' one-pot ' recipes , which means they require minimal food preparation . You simply cut up the ingredients in fairly large chunks , add seasoning , and liquid , and that 's it . They are a favorite of working parents , but increasingly , also a device for more advanced experimentation .
Throw it out . Tofu has a very short life . Once opened it can last up to 5 days in the refrigerator , but only if you store it submerged in water , and change it daily . See also : <URL>
From a food safety perspective , the most important thing is that you get your leftovers cooled as quickly as possible , so that they do n't spend too long in the <URL> . This can be tricky , because you essentially have to move from cooking temperatures to refrigerated temperatures within two hours ( generally less because the time is cumulative , and includes time that the ingredients spent in the danger zone before you cooked them ) . Here 's what I do at home : Separate into smaller portions . For me , this usually means individual servings , but you can package 2-3 servings together ; the point is to avoid having a single large mass of food . I do this for a couple of reasons . First , it makes reheating convenient ; rather than heating up more portions than you 're going to be eating , or scooping out a single portion for separate reheating ( dirtying some extra dishware in the process ) you can simply grab as many portions as desired and go . Second , by separating the portions you are increasing their surface area , and therefore how quickly they will cool ( another reason I like individual servings is that it maximizes this effect ) . This is a basic trick from my restaurant days ; experienced professional cooks will know that to cool a large batch of soup safely , you need to either get the whole thing into an ice bath , or break it down into smaller portions . ( A thrifty tip here : you can use dedicated plastic or Pyrex food storage containers , but commercial containers are cheap and effective as well . There are all kinds of <URL> and <URL> containers intended for food service that are microwave-safe and which can be safely cleaned in the dishwasher . You 'll often have to buy them in bulk , but per piece they 're very inexpensive , they tend to stack very well , and if you 're lucky you can find a decent local takeaway or delivery place that uses them instead of styrofoam . Save whatever you get , wash them , and reuse . It 's possible to ruin these with excessive heat , but they 're so cheap that it 's not too much of a loss . ) Allow to cool on the counter , uncovered , for 10-20 minutes . The goal here is simply to let steam escape ; water carries a lot of thermal energy with it ( which is why you can easily burn yourself over a pot of boiling water ) and letting it get away will cool your food rapidly . The portions do n't need to cool completely at this point ; if they 're warm but no longer actively steaming , that 's fine . Put the portions in the refrigerator . As @Jefromi notes in comments , <URL> , and a lower external temperature will help your portions cool quickly and safely . Where possible , it 's ideal to leave these uncovered and spread out into a single layer so that they will cool quickly . Quite honestly , this is n't always practical , so if you need to cover and stack the portions due to space constraints , cool them a little longer on the counter before putting them into the fridge . Freeze the portions if you 'll be storing them for more than a couple of days . <URL> ; if you need to keep them beyond that , the freezer is your friend . This does n't work well for everything , but hearty foods like pastas will often freeze reasonably well . Reheat thoroughly in the microwave . For all that serious cooks might discount the microwave , it 's a very effective and efficient reheating device . ( Especially if you follow my advice about using microwave-safe plastic containers ; if you use something like Pyrex that 's oven-safe , you could certainly use that too . ) Make sure you heat everything so that it 's evenly hot ; this may mean stirring a couple of times . Overall , it 's most definitely possible to safely store leftovers , so long as you cool them quickly and reheat them thoroughly . Not only that , but I heartily endorse the practice . Leftovers can be practical , tasty , and a serious time saver . There 's no reason to be paranoid about them if you embrace a few simple rules .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
Bread Improver is a mix of various acids and enzymes that serve to strengthen the gluten in the flour and feed the yeast , both of which yield a better loaf . The idea is to give bread a similar texture and taste to sourdough-based loaves , without having to go through the laborious feeding process usually involved with that method . For more information , look at this <URL> article .
You should refer to the discussion here : <URL> Some relevant points : MSG is found naturally in seaweed and other things . It is used to enhance the flavors it is combined with . It is completely harmless unless you are limiting your sodium intake . Check out the wikipedia article on the subject as a starting point : <URL> In short there has been no linkage to any adverse effects found in many controlled studies . As far as replacing it - You can leave it out altogether or add a little salt .
They 're likely referring to di-ammonium phosphate , which is used in wine making and mead brewing , as it provides nitrogen to accelerate the yeast growth . I found a site giving <URL> as a replacement , but it might be easier ( and safer ) to just go to a shop that specializes in brewing or wine making supplies and getting the right stuff . ( I have no idea how expensive it is , as I 've never done it ) Your other option would be to find an alternate recipe that does n't call for it ... it might take longer to brew , though .
There is n't a standardised shape as such , but the rugby ball shape is common . To achieve this shape , all you have to do is cook your omelette ( French style uses a super-hot pan and lots of butter ) , then roll three quarters of it up in the pan . Then nudge the omelette up the side of the pan a little , so that it partly protrudes over the edge , which will then allow you to flip the remaining quarter back over onto the rest of the omelette . You should now have a rugby ball shape with a ' seam ' , i.e. the edge of the omelette - simply turn this out so the ' seam ' is on the plate and you have a nice smooth omelette showing on top .
Ok , first of all make sure you are getting French or Italian truffles , not Chinese or Oregon . Some people like the latter but they are quite a bit different . Black truffles do well cooked , while white truffles are usually only used shaved raw over a dish . When I use them , I like to use them in a situation where I will really be able to taste them . A few classic ideas are an omelette , risotto , or pasta with a cream sauce . Those all carry the flavor and aroma of truffles very well . Chop some of it very fine and put it in the dish and then slice the rest paper thin ( with a mandoline if possible ) over the finished food right before serving .
Dijon has a strong taste from the liquid they use in it ( it 's not quite vinegar , not quite wine ) . I 'd probably try a blend of some other mustard + a little white wine vinegar ( not white vinegar ; white wine vinegar ) or champaigne vinegar or apple cider vinegar . ( Maybe even a dry white wine , if you have that on hand ) . If you have dry mustard powder , and some time to let it sit , you could also try making your own ; most of the recipes online seem to use a dry white wine as their base , a few use white wine vinegar .
It all revolves around gluten and gluten chains . Cake flour is low protein , and bread flour is high protein , and everything else lies somewhere between . Individual brands have different levels of protein depending on their formulation . That protein , when combined with water , is what makes your stretchy gluten chains , and those are the difference between soft crumbly cake and a french baguette that could serve as a weapon in a pinch . As with many chemical reactions in cooking , however , you can interfere with the " natural " reactions by means of some clever chemistry . Cornstarch works very simply ... Corn just does n't have any gluten , so you 're just " watering down " the gluten content of your flour . Acid retards gluten formation . Water is critical for gluten formation , unless you use a whole lot of it , in which case it weakens it ( a wetter dough will make for a less gluteny final product ) . Mixing makes more gluten ( helps the little proteins make friends with each other ) , so mix MORE for more gluten , and less for less . But fat is your friend . Fat waterproofs your flour , and keeps gluten from forming . Long story short , pick a method you 're comfortable with , and stick to it . If you 're used to using AP flour , you 're going to have some headscratching moments when the cake flour does n't behave the way you expect it to . On the other hand , cake flour will be more forgiving if you overmix .
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
Cincinnati Chili often has cardamom , along with cinnamon and cocoa . Cardamom is used in savory and sweet foods all over the world , not just in India . If you have reason to want to try this particular recipe , then try the recipe as written . There are thousands of beloved recipes for all kinds of chili . There is no reason to say , " That one looks good , I 'll do it just like that but omit a certain ingredient 'cause it makes me nervous . " Your friend 's advice is a bit odd to me because Garam Masala usually contains cardamom ( sometimes black , green and brown ) My advice is to either try the recipe as written , or find another with which you 're more comfortable . Or come up with your own . There are no hard and fast rules when it comes to chili . BTW , I love cardamom in savory . I make a Vietnamese Beef Noodle Soup ( Pho ) that I crave if I have n't had it for a while . It would n't be right without cardamom .
When I fancy fish and chips I tend to use either cod or haddock and create a rich beer batter . Serve that with some home-made chips and you 're set . If I want something lighter , but still with a crust , I 'd tend to go for mackerel . If that 's not available , I 'd be looking for seabass or snapper .
I ca n't give you a list with good substitutes for common dishes . First , I doubt that my common dishes are your common dishes . Second , it would be too long . If you want to substitute alcohol in a dish , you have to understand what it does in the specific recipe , and then use your imagination to think of an ingredient which will have a similar effect . Alcohol has mostly three effects in a dish . First , it is a liquid , and its bulk must be considered . In recipes where the ratio is important ( mainly batters ) , if you leave out the alcohol , you have to add some other liquid to maintain the original ratio . Second , alcohol adds its own taste . A small part of it is the taste of the ethanol itself , but cooks mostly use beverages with a strong taste of their own as a component of the dish . Third , alcohol is a solvent . It can get more taste out of your other ingredients than pure water . ( Ever wondered why vanilla extract is alcohol based ? ) This is especially important in recipes which give it a longer time to interact with the other ingredients , such as the slow boiling of a coq au vin . Depending on which of these effects are important to you , you have different options to act . Just leave it out . If you are n't baking , you probably are n't that interested in the ratio . And if you expect the result to taste well enough without the alcohol , the simplest solution is to skip it . Use a liquid substitute . This is especially important in baking and confectionery , but you can decide to do it in any case . Depending on the original kind of alcohol and taste you are aiming for , you can use pure water , a liquid trying to stay close to the original taste , or a liquid which gives a completely new taste profile to the whole recipe . For example , in a sweet dish like your foster dessert you can use caramel dissolved in apple juice instead of dark rum if you want to mimic the original , or cherry juice to create a cherry-banana dessert . Common liquids to use are sugared water ( when the original recipe had a sweet liquor ) , a fruit or vegetable juice , a herbal infusion , clear stock , or pickle liquid . Do n't be afraid to use more than one liquid to get closer to the effect you want . If the recipe already uses some other liquid , you can just use more of it . Use a spice or condiment . This is when your main concern is the taste , and you do n't care about the missing liquid . Again , you could be trying to mime the original closely ( using orange zest instead of Grand Marnier ) , or just using any strong spice so the dish does n't become bland . It is up to you . A special case is to use only a taste " essence " : for some beverages common in baking , you can buy a propylene-glycol based condiment which approximates their aroma . Rum essence is widely available , but I 'm quite sure that the whiskey flavored ice cream in the supermarket is n't full of real whiskey . Leave the alcohol in the recipe ( possibly reduced ) . Obviously impossible in some circumstances , like a wine sauce , but quite feasible in others . You do n't have to drown the dessert in rum and flambe it . If you use 20 ml of rum per 1000 g of other ingredients , a child who eats a normal serving ( 150 g ) will consume somewhat less than 1.2 g of ethanol if no alcohol at all is cooked out - and in practice , if the recipe calls for cooking , maybe half of the alcohol will evaporate , and a very young child will probably not eat the whole serving . I do n't think that such miniscule amounts are problematic for children . Of course , you are free to combine these solutions in any way you see fit , depending on which effect ( s ) of alcohol you are trying to imitate . For example , if a baking recipe calls for 50 ml of calvados , use 15 ml of calvados , 35 ml of apple juice , and a breath of powdered cinnamon . Or baste a roast with a mix of tomato and carrot juice instead of red wine . The possibilities are endless , you just have to be clear on why you are choosing whatever you are choosing .
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
This would be what I would call stewing . From the <URL> : " A dish cooked by stewing , especially a mixture of meat or fish and vegetables with stock . " I suppose you could also coin your own , new term call " modified-reduction-stewing . " Oh , wait , that 's mine ! Make up your own ; -- )
I have never heard of Tofu being called " vegetable meat " . There are some fake meat types based on different types of soya products ( or also other plant proteins ) , like " fake duck " . But the only product I have seen bearing the generic label " vegetable meat " is <URL> . It is made from soya beans whose fat has been extracted to be used for oil production . As for " non artificial " , I have no idea what your personal definition of " artificial " is . It does n't grow on trees , but then neither does butter , and I have never heard people condemn butter as " artificial " . It is a processed product , and it is not a traditional process , but I ca n't tell you if it is more or less processed than traditional heavily processed foods such as sugar . Also , the amount of chemicals involved is probably dependent on the manufacturer . I guess you have to trust the regulatory organs of your country to not allow the production of food containing something harmful . Organic ? This depends on the manufacturer too . If he adhers to organic production guidelines , then it is organic . And hygienic ? This is even harder to answer , it depends on not only the manufacturer 's decisions about the process , but also on the day-to-day process quality measures his employees take . There is no reason to say that " vegetarian meat " is the same as vegetarian Chinese food . A cup of rice served in a Chinese restaurant is vegetarian and Chinese , but does not include any kind of meat substitute . If I cook a French recipe and use textured soy protein as meat replacement , this makes it vegetarian , but not Chinese . There can be some overlap between the two , but I doubt that it is big . China has had social conditions leading to vegetarian lifestyles ( poverty , religious restrictions ) for long before production of such protein began . I doubt that any restaurants in the world are famous for it , mainly because it is a poor meat analogue . Yes , it offers a high amount of protein . But it does not taste really like meat . World-famous restaurants are world-famous because they offer high-quality food , and no food using inferior substitutions is high-quality . Yes , there are good vegetarian restaurants , but they do n't make poor imitations of meat dishes using fake meats , they offer vegetarian dishes made from good ingredients . Some of them can feature some of the more popular soy products like tofu , but they are probably not famous for their tofu , because the tofu is not the main star of all dishes . This all assumes that what you refer to is actually the textured vegetable protein I linked , but that is far from clear from your question . Other possibilities exist , because people have long tried to find a suitable meat substitute for vegetarians and for people who ca n't afford real meat . Most are soy-based , like the mentioned tofu and tempeh , but there are also wheat-based ones like seitan , and I think that there was some kind of beans product used sometimes instead of meat . Without you giving us more information , we ca n't conclude for sure which one you mean . But the answers to the other questions is about the same , with the exception that some processing methods are older than others and so can be considered more traditional ( in case this plays a role for your understanding of " artificial " ) .
There are three major properties an edible fat ( I am assuming you are not asking about inedible oils like petroleum based products ) has that affect how it is best used : Flavor Saturation Smoke point Properties Flavor The flavor of the fat is very important . So called <URL> ( like canola oil or refined grapeseed oil , or refined peanut oil , among many others ) have very little flavor and so are suitable for almost any cooking task , as they will not interfere with or compete with the other flavors in the dish . Other oils such as sesame oil are primarily used for the delicious flavor that they provide , and are almost more of a condiment than an oil for culinary purposes . In between are oils like olive oil and coconut oil which have a distinctive flavor , but also have good qualities for cooking . Many non-oil fats used in cooking ( like butter , or bacon fat , lard , or suet ) also have distinctive flavors . Saturation The level of <URL> in the fat controls how hard the fat is at room temperature . Most oils are fairly low in saturation , and are so quite liquid even at room temperature . The major exceptions among the vegetable based lipids are coconut oil and cocoa butter . Coconut oil is solid at room temperature , and cocoa butter is actually quite hard at room temperature . Note that while you only asked about " oils " , many common cooking fats not usually called an oil are much more saturated , including butter , lard , and hydrogenated vegetable oil such as the US brand Crisco . The level of saturation can affect texture of baked goods made with a given oil , and whether the fat is suitable for the creaming method or in making laminated pastry in baking . Saturated fats also resist rancidity better over time better than non-saturated fats ( although they are still subject to rancidity ) . Smoke Point The smoke point of a fat or oil is temperature to which it can be heated before it begins smokng . Oils which have a high smoke point ( such as grapeseed oil or peanut oil among others ) are more suitable for high temperature searing , or deep frying . Applications The oil for a given application is based on the properties it has . Cooking For general cooking uses ( by which I am inferring general sauteeing , shallow frying , greasing of casserole dishes , and so on is meant ) , normally you want a fat which is either : Neutral in flavor so as not to interfere with the dish . The neutral oils are all useful for this . Complimentary in flavor , to enhance the dish . Many cuisines have traditional fats which are flavorful , but are integrated into their cuisine , such as olive oil or butter . Saturation matters less ( as the fat can be melted before greasing a pan , for example ) , and smoke point is not terribly relevant unless the application is searing , in which case you want a very high smoke point . Depending on the application and the cuisine from which a dish derives , almost any oil or fat may be used for general cooking purposes . The major exception is sesame oil , which is so flavorful that it is used as a condiment , not a fat , for culinary purposes . Deep Frying The most important aspect for deep frying is smoke point . A low smoke point oil would break down and add off flavors to the dish ( not to mention making the kitchen smoky and setting off smoke alarms ) . Secondarily , for oils that are going to be reused over time , saturated fats such as hydrogenated vegetable shortenings break down more slowly , and may be considered advantageous . Generally , flavorful oils are not indicated , as the same factors that give them good flavor often give them low smoke points . Some good oils for deep frying include peanut oil , canola oil , or hydrogenated vegetable shortening . Dressing For most dressings ( by which I infer you mean salad dressings as used in many Western style cuisines ) , the most important factors are flavor and saturation . You want an oil with good flavor ( such as olive oil ) or neutral flavor ( such as the many neutral oils like canola , refined peanut , corn oil , and so on ) . Most dressings also need an oil which is liquid at room temperature , and thus low in saturation . The major exception is the class of hot dressings made with bacon fat . Many dressings are made from olive oil , or one of the neutral oils . Baking While you did not ask about baking applications , there are two types of baking which require a fat with specific properties : cakes made by the creaming method , and laminated pastries like croissants or puff pastry . These applications require a fat which is solid at room temperature , but still plastic enough to be manipulated . Generally , only butter and hydrogenated vegetable oil are suitable . Bottom Line The oil or fat you choose for any particular purpose will be based on what is best for that application -- but a good neutral oil with a high smoke point such as refined peanut oil or canola oil can serve the vast majority of culinary purposes most of the time . See also : <URL> <URL>
Add cumin , chili powder and garlic powder to your salt and pepper . You might like a bit of curry powder or turmeric too , but I do n't know if you 'd call that a Mexican flavor .
end question
start question
To what temperature should you take candied citrus peels ?
I do n't think you are looking for a specific temp ( i.e. ; crack or soft ball stage ) after adding the citrus since you have already " contaminated " the syrup . My preferred recipe is from Epicurious.com ( <URL> ) . I have used it twice with great results and am going to be making again very soon for the holidays .
Assuming the rind chunks are fairly large , you could use a colander with fairly large holes or a metal sieve .
I own a 1-litre soda siphon like the iSi Siphon you pointed out . Some friends have a higher-capacity soda maker , I think from Sodastream . To answer your questions : Yes , the charger is single-use , and it carbonates only as much water as is in the bottle . My soda siphon holds about 1 litre of water . If I put in less water , then once the bottle runs dry I vent spare carbon dioxide uselessly into the air . If I put in more water , the carbon dioxide runs out and the remaining water wo n't leave the bottle . Using the standard siphon product , there 's no easy way to have a single charger yield more than one 1 litre . The charger is designed to deliver all its gas at one time ; it does n't reseal . Consider the <URL> if you want a step up from the 1-litre soda siphon with disposable chargers . Sodastream uses larger bottles of gas , which they describe as " 60L " . I think they mean that each bottle of gas carbonates 60 litres of water . Sodastream 's <URL> claims , After your initial purchase of a home soda maker package , you 'll enjoy seltzer and sparkling water in reusable 1-liter PET bottle for just [ Canadian ] $ .30 per litre and flavoured sodas for about $ .88 per litre , before any applicable shipping charges ... From their wording , it 's pretty clear to me that the $ 0.20 - $ 0.30 / litre claim is purely the marginal cost of carbonating water . It does n't include amortising the purchase cost of the equipment , and likely is based on the cheapest way to refill the carbon dioxide bottles ( exchanging filled bottles for empty by mail ) , and likely does n't include shipping costs or taxes for the refills . It may be that one can drive the cost per litre down by adjusting the amount of water in the soda bottle , as well .
Make sure food does n't stay in the very bottom part for long enough to burn on . The flared sides and narrow bottom of these pans tend to concentrate heat at the bottom , and burn on food more easily than flat-bottom saucepans and frying pans . Once food is burned on , there is no way to scrub it off without also removing the nonstick coating . It only takes one batch of fried rice or browned onions to permanently wreck the pan . Finally , stir-frying involves a lot of vigorous motion with utensils , which rapidly wears out nonstick layers . With nonstick woks , it is simply a matter of time before they are ruined . My suggestion is to replace your teflon wok and kadhai with ( respectively ) carbon steel and cast-iron equivalents at the earliest convenience . Woks and kadhais are designed for high-flame cooking , and if you reduce the heat to protect cookware , then the food wo n't get browned fully . With these materials you can use full heat without ruining pans or releasing toxic chemicals ( from overheated Teflon ) . Cleanup is simple : just rinse out , scrape off burnt bits , wipe them down with a paper towel , and season with oil . Finally , wooden or silicone rubber utensils are the best for a nonstick wok or kadhai ; they wo n't scrape off the nonstick layer unless used very roughly , andthey can stand the heat without melting . Normal plastics ( particularly polyethylene or polypropylene ) tend to melt , and metal will scrape up the nonstick coating .
In the food safety section of Modernist Cuisine ( 1-138 ) it says that all wild rabbit must be cooked through : Wild rabbit must be cooked well done to kill any tularemia bacteria ; for rare or medium cooked rabbit dishes , chefs can substitute farm-raised rabbits that have been kept segregated from their wild relatives by trustworthy breeders . The section on meat ( 3-96 ) recommends bringing rabbit loin to an internal temperature of 59C ( 138F ) and going by the section I 've just quoted this is obviously only for farmed meat . The recommendation for the legs is to cook sous vide for 1 hour @ 66C ( 151F ) which again obviously refers to farmed because that 's definitely not long enough to tenderise wild rabbit meat . I would really recommend cooking the leg meat and loin separately as I find that the loin dries out long before the legs are cooked through . The legs are much nicer braised too .
I have not made Marron Glaces . However I have been researching how to make them and found someone , who had used a washed onion bag to put the chestnuts in to stop them breaking up . Apparently this works . So even though I have not made them I saw your question while researching and thought I would pass on this tip to you . Hope it works for you . Deborah
There is a large collection or reasons , some are : Differences in makes and models Modern form over function problems Crap EU standards ( EN 60350 etc ) that limit the amount of power a element can use . It 's something like < = 0.25 W per cm2 , and a typical domestic over is around 1100 cm2 For same standards the typical total KW/h of modern over is 3.5 KW/h , where ovens of twenty years ago where around 4.5 KW/h \
Let it rest anyway . Even at low temperatures , the juices will be flowing through the meat . Resting stops this process . As for the strange colour-changing meat , I suspect you just were n't observant . Meat that has gone brown will not spontaneously go pink again .
<URL> 160 ° F ( 71 ° C ) for dishes containing eggs . If you 're scrambling eggs or making an omelette , as long as they 're coagulated/solidified , they 'll be safe . The easiest way to confirm this is with sous vide eggs . For example , this <URL> has 155 ° F , 160 ° F , and 165 ° F eggs : <URL> <URL> <URL> which clearly show that the white wo n't be totally solidified until 160 ° F or even 165 ° F , even when cooked for an extended period of time . ( To be clear , those lower-temperature eggs are actually safe if cooked for sufficient time . The point here is just to show coagulation versus temperature , to demonstrate that when eggs cooking in a pan , you can use the solidity as a temperature indicator . )
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
The typical tricks used by chocolate manufacturers is to change the viscosity of chocolate by adding a gel like xanthan gum or glycerine . The other trick is to incorporate more water into the chocolate with the aid of an emulsifier such as lecithin . All these techniques are hard to do at home as they require many hours of stirring the chocolate to avoid grittiness . <URL> often give recipes . One can buy chocolate with higher melting points . <URL> melts at 55 ° C , the highest melting point for a commercial chocolate that I know of , but is not yet on sale . Many of the commercial chocolate bars , such as the wartime <URL> use chocolate that incorporate these techniques as do the <URL> .
Ca n't comment on the nutritional side of things , but the main reason I can think of for not always including it is that it has a slightly different flavour . A much more intense lemon flavour is provided by the zest while the juice has the more tart elements ( and of course water ) . If you 're just interested in avoiding waste , you can freeze the zest .
I 've heard a few different answers ( theories ) as to why you should use different temperature liquids to the roux , most of it 's related to starch gelatinization . I 'm also not a fan of scalding milk when I do n't have to , as it can bubble over if you do n't pay attention and/or taken on a bit of a scorched taste . I 've always <URL> in part because that 's the way I learned growing up , but if I 'm thickening a gravy I 'm generally using warmer liquid ( drippings , let to sit so you can separate out the fat ) . I rarely use a roux to thicken something near a boil ... for that , I 'll use a slurry . There are differences when dealing with adding cold liquid to a roux -- you need to add the liquid slowly , and stir it well before each addition , which also gives it a chance to come back up to temperature . Of course , I recommend always adding the liquid slowly , as I find it easier than trying to work out lumps afterwards .
You have quite a bit of leeway with Instant Coffee . You can brew it using water of your desired temperature . I would recommend using water just below boiling point though , around 95-99 degrees Celsius . You could use 85-95 degrees Celsius water as well ; it wo n't make a big difference in terms of extraction of flavour , and here is why : How instant coffee is prepared in the factory : Coffee beans are roasted They are ground very finely ( 0.5 mm - 1.1 mm in diameter ) The ground coffee is mixed with water in percolation columns which reaches 155 - 180 degrees Celsius . This is the extraction process . This mixture is then concentrated and/or dried using vacuum evaporation , freeze drying , or spray drying methods . The result from this is what you get in the store . Conclusion : All of the very particular factors that one must consider when trying to make great coffee have already been decided for you . You have no control over roast , grind , time from grind to extraction , extraction time and temperature , or time from extraction to consumption . All of this been decided for you . It is up to you . Brew it at whatever temperature you like to drink your coffee at . However , it may be slightly harder to dissolve the coffee and get good flavor at cold temperatures . Keeping it on the hotter side may be better . That 's just chemistry though . Sources : I am a professional barista and coffee connoisseur . <URL>
Cast iron is great for bacon , but not a grill pan . The bacon really needs to be floating on its own grease for nice even heating . The best bacon is cooked slowly . Preheat the pan so it is an evenly heated cooking surface , then slide you bacon on to the hot pan . By slide , I mean move it around on the pan before you drop it so the pan gets a coat of grease before dropping the bacon and getting it stuck on the hot pan . Let it cook at medium low heat , it will take longer but you 'll get less splatter , the bacon wo n't burn , and it wo n't dry out either , you also have a larger window of opportunity to pick up the bacon while it 's " just right " whatever that is for you .
When you approach the low end of the low-and-slow cooking methods , a concern that is normally not an issue in faster cooking methods starts becoming important : how long will it take the food to get to safe temperature ? You want the food to be above 140 F ( 60 C ) for the entirety of the cooking process , for safety , although having that happen instantly is not possible . Therefore , you want the temperature to get to that threshold as quickly as reasonably possible , especially for the surface of whole cuts of meats where the greatest risk of pathogens are . Therefore , I would urge you to err on the side of caution and safety , and use the extra coal at the beginning of cooking until the food reaches at least 140 F . Once it gets out of the danger zone , and into the safe zone , you have much more freedom . However , barbecue is far from exact . I would not worry about a 10 or even 15 F disparity . Your final outcome will likely be indistinguishable . Still , once the food is safe , if you wish to allow the temperature to be somewhat lower , that is the time to do so .
If you cool a pan too quickly it could deform , especially if your using a cheap pan . A cast iron pan could crack . This is most likely to happen if you dip a hot pan in cold water . If you want to get a jump-start on cleaning , de-glaze the pan with a cup of water as you would when making gravy . Pour off this liquid and set the pan aside to cool completely .
The purpose for cleaning with salt is that it is an abrasive , and helps remove anything sticking to the pan , without being harsh enough to remove the seasoning . Its not a stop-gap measure for poor seasoning ; it is intended to preserve the seasoning . The main issue is avoiding soaps and detergents which would tend to remove the seasoning that makes cast iron fairly non-stick .
Ahh , the complexities of blending . Have you tried pulsing the smoothie ? Short bursts tend to stir up some of the stuff that sneaks below the blades .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
end question
start question
Can I test my oven temperature without an oven thermometer ?
First , buy a thermometer , they 're cheap . This one topped America 's Test Kitchen testing : <URL> Barring taking the plunge and spending $ 6 on an oven thermometer , this method comes straight from an online class I 'm taking from Harvard through edX.org . <URL> To test the oven , you can either use an oven thermometer , or you can find a material that has a transition at some critical temperature , and then tune your oven near the critical temperature where the transition occurs -- to find out if it actually happens . Jeff Potters has suggested a wonderful idea in his excellent book Cooking for Geeks . Namely , he suggests that oven testing can be done with melting sugar . His protocol is here . The calibration is based on the idea that the melting point of table sugar ( sucrose ) is 366 F ( 186 ˚C ) , [ google " melting point sucrose " ] and so if you put the temperature just above 366 , the sugar should melt . And if you put it just below 366 F it should not melt . It is important when doing this procedure to not use a lot of sugar , as otherwise the heating time for the sugar could be too long . Materials : ~ 1/2 tablespoon granulated sugar Procedure : 1 ) Preheat your oven to 350F ( 177 ˚C ) . ( 2 ) Place the granulated sugar in an oven proof dish or on aluminum foil ( 3 ) Place in oven for 15 minutes ( 4 ) If the sugar does n't melt , raise the temperature of the oven by 10F ( 5 ˚C ) and repeat the experiment . ( 5 ) Continue raising the temperature until you find the temperature setting where your sugar melts . Let 's call this temperature Tmelt . ( 6 ) You have thus found that the sugar melts somewhere in the interval Tmelt-10 , Tmelt . ( i.e. , if you found that the sugar melted at 400F , but not 390F , the melting temperature is between 390 and 400 . ) ( 7 ) Your measurement suggests that your oven has the approximate calibration curve T = Tdial + 366 - Tmelt ( if you use degrees Fahrenheit ) T = Tdial + 186 - Tmelt ( if you use degrees Celsius ) where Tdial is the temperature of the dial . Note that if your dial says that sugar melts at 400 , this formula states that the actual temperature in the oven is the temperature that the sugar melts ( 366F ) . " Here is another method , this one is from Cook 's Illustrated , AKA America 's Test Kitchen . I copied and pasted the technique from <URL> Preheat oven to 350F . Start with 1 cup of room temperature water and check its temperature with an immersion thermometer . Adjust the temperature with either warm or cold water to make it 70F . place in oven for 15 minutes . Check temperature again and it should read 150F . Adjust oven temperature accordingly . Another way to check oven temp is to simply boil water . Put a couple of cups of water in an oven proof pan and set the oven temp to 200F or 90C , the water should n't boil no matter how long you leave it in the oven . Set the temp to 225F or 110C . Eventually , the water should boil . All that said , buy a thermometer .
The lack of vent holes would have been a problem . Vent holes allow steam to escape , reducing the amount of internal moisture . This moisture will both prevent the crust from cooking fully through , and will cause the crust to soften as after it comes out of the oven . That 's not to say that there was n't also some other problem , just this is one thing that you should correct .
I 'd suggest a <URL> AND an instant read digital thermometer like the <URL> ( which is pretty cheap ) or the <URL> ( which is n't ) . A leave-in probe lets you monitor the general progress of the food , giving you a good way to gauge how much cooking time remains without having to open the oven and slow down the process . The instant read variety is great for checking the internal temperature of all sorts of food that you might not normally measure -- steaks on the grill , mashed potatoes , stocks and soups ( to make sure that they 're cooling quickly enough ) , bread ( to check for doneness ) ... Both leave-in and instant read are extremely useful , and neither of them will expose your turkey to the risk of glass shards .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
A couple thoughts ... I have n't tried this , but I 've heard of people doing it . The microwave works relatively well to steam things . You could try " steaming " the dumplings in the microwave with a bit of water at the bottom of the dish or better yet , cover with a wet paper towel . You 'll probably need to do some experimenting unfortunately . Under " ideal " circumstances , I 'd probably prefer proper steaming , but this might work in a pinch . I imagine re-heating them would work well , but if cooking them works to your liking ... no sense cooking them twice . If you have a rice cooker , you could easily rig that up to " steam " as well . Just rig it up as if you were using a pot to steam it . Just make sure it is n't dry ...
This depends on a lot of things . The idea of preheating is that you want to get all the surfaces inside your oven ( walls , floor , door , racks ) up to the desired cooking temperature . This makes for more even temperatures throughout the oven , and gives a little thermal mass so you do n't lose ALL your heat when you open the door for a few seconds or put something cold in there . Then there 's the question of what you 're putting in the oven . An aluminum sheet with a few room temperature cookies on it wo n't pull the temperature in the oven down like a 25 pound turkey that 's 40F/5C inside . You want to be more careful to do a complete preheat if you 're going to be soaking up a lot of your starting heat . Our oven , which has a large baking stone in the bottom all the time , takes a while to get uniformly up to temperature , even after the oven says it 's preheated , because the stone does n't heat up as fast as the rest of the surfaces . It takes at least 20 minutes after the " I 'm fully heated " beep before the stone is fully up to temp . We have problems with things baking poorly if we do n't preheat for quite a while , but on the upside , if we put a cold roast in or open the door a lot , the temperature in the oven stays pretty high . If your oven is lightweight , flimsy or drafty , it may be as hot as it 's going to get the moment the preheat alert goes off . 45 minutes is probably a lot more preheat than you 'll need in almost any case . In some cases even 15 minutes is more than you need . It really depends on your oven and what you 're putting in .
Using a bicarbonate of Soda paste is a good way to clean the oven and does not involve any nasty chemicals . Also , as you need to clean the base of the oven , it can help if you remove the door if it is a drop down door . This makes reaching inside much easier . Most doors are designed to be removed easily . Sometimes your manual will provide instructions on how to remove the door for cleaning . Otherwise this video on <URL> may help as it covers four different types of hinge .
It should be fine to use . It is probably dusty , perhaps greasy from other kitchen sources . If it 's self cleaning , go for it ( and avoid using any harsh cleaners ) It might get smoky at first , so you should have ventilation possible ( window , fan , or whatever ) If not self cleaning , give it a good wiping-out with an ammonia based cleaner or use commercial oven cleaner ( nasty stuff ) . If its possible that you have mice , you should probably make sure that they are n't nesting in the cabinet - get a technician if you are n't comfortable removing panels , etc. . And buy an oven thermometer to check the oven thermostat . Self-cleaning or not , it will probably be smoky at first . Good luck .
I would n't recommend to bake this again and eat it because there is a food safety issue . If you had noticed this right after baking , this would not be a problem regarding food safety . But since the bread stayed for many hours in the <URL> and since it contained perishable ingredients like eggs , I strongly suggest to discard the raw bread .
The California Avocado Commission recommends this ( safe but wimpy - see below for a better way ) three-step process : Start with a ripe avocado and cut it lengthwise around the seed . Rotate the halves to separate . Remove the seed by sliding the tip of a spoon gently underneath and lifting out . The other common seed-extraction method - striking the seed with a knife and twisting - requires some skill and is not recommended . Peel the fruit by placing the cut side down and removing the skin with a knife or your fingers , starting at the small end . Or simply scoop out the avocado meat with a spoon . Be sure to sprinkle all cut surfaces with lemon or lime juice or white vinegar to prevent discoloration . <URL> Source : <URL> Notes : Another ( and my favorite ) way to remove the pit is by holding the half with the pit in one hand and striking the sharp edge of the knife used in step one into the pit , then twisting to remove . This is the " pro " way to do it , but takes a little practice . <URL> , it 's not that hard . If you 're going to be chopping the avocado up , you slice it up using the tip of the knife still in the shell , then scoop the sliced avocado meat out with a spoon .
It 's going to depend on the material your ramekins are made from . If you have glass ones , maybe they 'll break . But the typical porcelain ones should be fine . Keep in mind they 're used for crème brûlée , which is prepared by chilling to set , followed by topping with some sugar , then caramelizing by either a torch or placing right under a broiler . Cold to broiler or torch is a much bigger thermal shock than cold to cold to oven .
Yes , all it is , is flavour . Apple juice and grape juice are 2 things I 've used in the past for non-alcohol people . You can also get away with not using anything as a replacement as long as you use enough of everything else ( butter and parmesan etc ) . Wine just gives a little depth and a sort of ' freshness ' . Edit : I just read the vegetarian part of your question . I 'm assuming you already know , but Parmesan is n't vegetarian , as it is made from rennet ( <URL> ) , and most commonly from the fourth stomach of young calves . The vegetarian substitute 's I 've tried in the past ( Called pasta cheese ) , are not great . However , unlike Parmesan , Gruyere is allowed to be made with vegetable rennet and taste 's great ( I personally prefer it over Parmesan ) .
You can certainly use a Dutch oven ( DO ) for cooking sauce . A good DO is probably one of the most versatile pieces of equipment in the kitchen . It cooks , it bakes , it even fries ! It will certainly make sauce and the high sides will even help prevent splatters . I would n't worry about the lack of a long handle , the weight of the DO will keep it stable . If anything , the weight is its primary fault . A good DO is also a heavy DO . It can be a bit daunting to lug out every time . Since you mentioned Le Creuset , I 'm assuming you 're talking about enameled cast iron - not ' normal ' cast iron . And hence have n't addressed that you certain sauces and such may not be well suited to ' normal ' cast iron , but enameled is fine all around . Can you use a enameled Dutch oven for sauces ? Absolutely . Should you ? There are less weighty options , but at the end of the day it will make the same sauce .
I think you may reach the point of diminishing returns if you try and fix your oven because there 's lots that could be going wrong . It could be that your oven design is just bad , in which case you ca n't fix it anyway . It could be a faulty temperature sensor , or a bad gas valve , or a faulty burner . Your gas supply pressure could be inconsistent . By the time you replace all these you 'll have spent more than a new oven would cost . I 'd first clean it really well . Get all the dust and gunk out and see if that helps . Then you should see if you can find a pro who can have a look at it , test the gas supply , see if there 's any quick wins . One suggestion I 'd make would be to post this on the <URL> forum , the home improvement site . As this is more a question about mechanics and repair you 're likely to get a better answer there .
I had this exact same problem for years . And it was all about letting the dough relax . I 'd get beautiful crusts , but never EVER pass the windowpane test . I was so confused . Turns out , all I had to do was leave it alone for about 10 minutes , much less and I 'd still run into issues . The window pane test is intended to show that enough gluten has been formed that you can stretch the dough . It 's a completely non-exact test . It 's just to ballpark if there is ' enough ' gluten . By leaving it alone for 10 minutes or more , the gluten has relaxed and can be stretched to form the window pane . This relaxing is the same thing that you may need to do while forming your pizza . If you find that your pizza dough will stretch out some , and then pull back constantly - its good because you 've probably got enough gluten . Let it relax for several minutes and then pull it back - go too far and you 'll likely accidentally form a window pane ! Enough gluten means that you 've formed an efficent ' net ' of gluten that will trap gases from the yeast and also provide some ' chew ' . You 'll get better rise and your bread will have a better crumb . Yeast breads without much gluten development are often denser . When hand kneading , an <URL> will also help ( well , it always helps , just especially when you have to do the work manually ) . By giving the dough a short rest after initial mixing , you let the dough fully hydrate and some gluten will start to form on its own . When you come back to knead the dough , you should find the dough more workable and a little easier to get to the ' kneaded ' point . What 's going on with ' relaxing ' gluten ? Kneading forms gluten , but it often also tangles them up a bit . <URL> and will pull out into long strands easier .
The collagen in the ribs needs to get to a temperature of about 160 F to start breaking down into water and gelatin . If your oven can be set as low as 175 or 180 F on a normal bake or convection bake setting that is probably a better alternative unless you have access to an oven thermometer and can measure what temperature the warm setting on your oven attains .
Sometimes . Basically , this is the same as asking if glass is oven safe : Generally , glass is oven-safe if taken from room temperature and put in a moderate-temperature , preheated oven . The key thing is to avoid temperature shocks ( which will cause the glass to shatter ) . Some glass is specifically designed for oven use ( either by being tempered or made of borosilicate glass ) . Often glassware will say if it is safe for oven use or not , and under what conditions -- check the packaging or instructions it came with . You also need to take precautions when removing glass from the oven . Do not set it on something that 'll conduct heat away rapidly , such as a wet countertop . Before heating glassware , inspect it for damage . Scratches , chips , etc. make failure much more likely . This applies to the microwave as well . Note that non-glass parts of microwave-safe glassware may not be oven safe . For example , if it has a plastic lid , that should generally not be used in the oven ( even though its OK in the microwave ) . edit : In response to your update , that oven is what would often be called a toaster or countertop oven . Those change temperature much more rapidly than a larger oven ( which can be electric as well ) . So , generally , you 'd avoid glass in them . But , your glass says it can be used over a flame , from the freezer . So it 's clearly one of the very shock-resistant ones , possibly borosilicate . I would n't expect it to be a problem . Just make sure to preheat the oven . Also , since you know who made it , you can of course contact the manufacturer to confirm .
I use the same hole if what I am checking is large , like a loaf of bread , and I do n't want to poke it full of holes ... although with my instant read thermometer , the hole is not particularly large . If the hole is a large proportion to the item ( big hole in the side of a cookie ... I know , absurd , but you get the idea ) where you think heat can run down that tunnel you 've made , then be concerned , but I ca n't imagine any situations where it is likely that the thermometer hole is going to let enough heat in to alter the cooking . I CAN imagine a situation where a thermometer in place could help transmit heat to the center and make it , potentially , cook quicker . We used to put a large nail in the center of a potato that we were baking in the coals of a fire so that the steel would help transmit heat to the center of the potato to make sure it got done evenly , but I do n't know how much of a difference even THAT made .
Yes . In fact , many , many people believe ( falsely ) that adding salt before or during cooking will keep beans hard ( a myth addressed in your first link ) , and most of these people have been cooking perfectly good beans for many years without adding salt until the beans were fully cooked . The cooking time may vary slightly . In some circumstances , the texture of the beans and/or their skins may soften at somewhat different rates than with salt . But the beans will still cook fine . ( One note : some chefs have claimed that cooking beans without salt causes people to add even more salt afterward to create a flavor that tastes " properly salted . " Beans are generally enhanced by adding flavoring components early enough in cooking for the flavors to penetrate . But you can always add salt afterward too ; the resulting flavor distribution will just be different . )
end question
start question
Should eggnog be chunky ?
No , eggnog should not be chunky . Yours has probably gone off .
There 's a reason so many recipes say " salt to taste " : there 's no single answer . Most of the time , we use close to 0.5 % salt by weight ( so 1kg food has 5g or 1 teaspoon of salt ) , but " close to " leaves plenty of wiggle room about what exactly is best . Different people have different tastes . What 's perfectly salted for one person may be oversalted or undersalted for another . Different dishes need different ratios too . Some things are supposed to taste a bit salty , while some just need a hint to amplify other flavors . Some ingredients need more salt to balance them than others . Sure , you can get approximate starting points , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( with tons of variation - that 's a couple random recipes ) . So very roughly , 1kg of food often comes with 5 grams of salt ( 1 teaspoon ) with exceptions ranging up to 10 grams ( 2 teaspoons ) . But your best bet is always going to be to find a good recipe for the specific dish you 're making , and possibly adjust it if you know your preferences lean one way or another . Failing that , when cooking something improvised or new , or using one of the many recipes that just says " salt to taste " , letting you do what suits you , trust the instincts that you 've developed for your own tastes . If you 're cooking for others , with possibly varying tastes , it gets trickier . For things where salt can be added after the fact , you can use less salt and let everyone individually salt to taste . For things you ca n't mix after cooking , you pretty much have to compromise somewhere in the middle and hope it works for everyone . Beyond that , if you ca n't decide what the right amount of salt is , do n't worry about it . There 's surely a range that works for you , so if two different amounts both taste good , there you are . And if you find yourself disagreeing with someone about what amount of salt results in the best flavor , stop . You probably just have different tastes from the person you 're arguing with .
I found <URL> in the LA Times with detailed experiments suggesting that soaking beans is unnecessary and it takes away the flavor and texture .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
I 've heard the same recommendation before - the idea is that if asparagus is very thick ( say , 1/2 inch or more in diameter ) , and if the bottom is much thicker than the top of the spear , then peeling it will help it to cook more evenly . If you have particularly thick asparagus that seem tough , you may want to peel the bottom section . First , chop or snap off the bottom inch or so , as it will most likely be inedibly tough . Then peel the next 2-3 inches up . You 'll want to lay the asparagus down on a flat surface to do so , so as not to snap it while peeling . I 've never had asparagus from a grocery store that was tough enough to warrant this , but it can happen with homegrown , for whatever reason .
You find that storing in the fridge is going to give you the longest life span . Hanging will keep keep the process of drying out continuing , which will intensify the flavour but will eventually become jerky texture . Wrapping will keep a little moisture in longer . If you do keep it for a period of time , you will develop a white mould which I will just cut of as it is just surface . The curing has stopped the pork breaking down . When I travelled through Spain , all of the city markets would have whole pieces of prosciutto hanging from there stalls that where covered in a fat that was covered in a green mould . When they needed a new piece they cut the mould and fat off and would start slicing for the customers ( some up there for over a year ) . I think the fridge is safer .
Tomatoes will last longer if kept in the fridge , but I actually recommend against keeping them there . Tomatoes lose much of their flavor when their temperature is brought below 50 degrees F. Keep them in the pantry . They will still last a few days at least , and they 'll taste a lot better .
No , eggnog should not be chunky . Yours has probably gone off .
You have quite a bit of leeway with Instant Coffee . You can brew it using water of your desired temperature . I would recommend using water just below boiling point though , around 95-99 degrees Celsius . You could use 85-95 degrees Celsius water as well ; it wo n't make a big difference in terms of extraction of flavour , and here is why : How instant coffee is prepared in the factory : Coffee beans are roasted They are ground very finely ( 0.5 mm - 1.1 mm in diameter ) The ground coffee is mixed with water in percolation columns which reaches 155 - 180 degrees Celsius . This is the extraction process . This mixture is then concentrated and/or dried using vacuum evaporation , freeze drying , or spray drying methods . The result from this is what you get in the store . Conclusion : All of the very particular factors that one must consider when trying to make great coffee have already been decided for you . You have no control over roast , grind , time from grind to extraction , extraction time and temperature , or time from extraction to consumption . All of this been decided for you . It is up to you . Brew it at whatever temperature you like to drink your coffee at . However , it may be slightly harder to dissolve the coffee and get good flavor at cold temperatures . Keeping it on the hotter side may be better . That 's just chemistry though . Sources : I am a professional barista and coffee connoisseur . <URL>
If there really is fat inside the steak , it is terribly undercooked . But this is unlikely to happen . Animal fat is a saturated fat which melts somewhere around 35 ° C . If your steak has n't reached 35 ° C internal temperature , it will be very visibly raw on the inside , with no apparent difference from the cold steak from the fridge . It will still be oozing blood-like liquid even after resting for over 10 minutes , and the liquid will be thicker than the juices of cooked steak . It will be deep red and slimy , and cold to the touch . Even the rarest steak you can buy is taken above 40 ° C . But not everything white inside meat is fat . Connective tissue/fascia are white too . They are not really lump-shaped , but I do n't know how precise your description is . Try cutting through one of the lumps . If it is tough and rubberlike , it is connective tissue ( and if there is lots of it , your meat is not meant for roasting , but for a slow cooking method ) . If the knife goes easier through the lump than through the meat , it is fat , and your cooking method is seriously wrong . In any case , the best way to know when steak is done is to use a meat thermometer . Stop when it shows around 61 ° C , the remaining heat transfer after removing from the heat will give you a medium steak .
Assuming you really do a crisp/cobbler , you can do any of those . If having it fresh and hot is the most important thing , but you want to avoid the inconvenience of cooking too much at your destination , your best choice is to prep first and cook later . ( This all changes completely if you decide to bake a cake instead . ) Assuming you like it served hot , it 'll of course be best if it 's cooked there . You might as well do the prep first ( but of course you do n't have to ) ; just be sure to keep the topping and the fruit separate and assemble right before baking so it does n't all soak through . Doing it all beforehand is probably the most convenient though , and it 'll work fine . You can reheat it in the oven at your destination ; that should help crisp up the topping a bit . ( You might want to err on the side of underbrowning it at home , though , so you do n't burn the top later . You can also cover it with foil to keep it from overbrowning . ) And of course , if you do n't want to serve it hot anyway , you might as well do it all at home .
If you use your whole beans within a week it 's probably not worth storing it in the refrigerator or freezer . Coffee beans should be stored in a cool , dry place . They can last 1-3 weeks in your pantry . Ideally you should store them in an airtight opaque container . They degrade quickly in the presence of light , heat , or oxygen . If you want to store them longer , then they will last 3-4 month in the freezer . Source : <URL>
The USDA <URL> that " all plastic and wooden cutting boards wear out over time . Once cutting boards become excessively worn or develop hard-to-clean grooves , they should be discarded . " Other advice they offer for avoiding food contamination from cutting boards : Avoid Cross-Contamination The Meat and Poultry Hotline says that consumers may use wood or a nonporous surface for cutting raw meat and poultry . However , consider using one cutting board for fresh produce and bread and a separate one for raw meat , poultry , and seafood . This will prevent bacteria on a cutting board that is used for raw meat , poultry , or seafood from contaminating a food that requires no further cooking . Cleaning Cutting Boards To keep all cutting boards clean , the Hotline recommends washing them with hot , soapy water after each use ; then rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels . Nonporous acrylic , plastic , or glass boards and solid wood boards can be washed in a dishwasher ( laminated boards may crack and split ) . Both wooden and plastic cutting boards can be sanitized with a solution of 1 tablespoon of unscented , liquid chlorine bleach per gallon of water . Flood the surface with the bleach solution and allow it to stand for several minutes . Rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels .
It is absolutely worth adding ground pork or veal . I usually use a leaner ground steak and compensate with a fatty ground pork ( shoulder is good ) - fat = flavour . Another tip is to take your time . Many people try and cook bolognese in half an hour , but considering ground meat is usually made with tougher cuts , you end up with tough meat and under-developed flavours . Use plenty of onions and garlic , brown your meat well , use good wine , stock , tomatoes and herbs ( thyme , rosemary and bay ) and gently simmer that bad boy for at least 3 hours . For ultimate flavour , cook it the day before and let the flavours marry overnight .
Tomatoes specifically will not damage your teflon pan any more than any other cold , wet vegetable . Teflon <URL> because it 's so nonreactive . Without it , uranium hexafluoride would eat through storage containers . It sounds like you were also talking about thermal shock -- which you can observe with a hot glass dropped in cold water . That happens on a very , very small scale with pans and food-to-be-heated . I think other factors -- like scratching from spatulas and accidental overheating -- would wear out the pan far , far sooner .
This seems like a case where a very simple A/B comparison will give you the answer for your own personal preference . Just use two identical mugs and do everything else the same except cover one and not the other . If you really want to make it official , put a mark on the bottom of one mug and then have someone else randomize them while you look away . ( p.s. not sure why this question is getting negative votes , it seems fine to me ) .
I 've never heard that . I have picked end of season tomatoes when they were green and let them ripen and used them for any purpose that I would normally use ripe tomatoes . And I know others who do also . It 's much better than losing them to a frost or to animals . If there is any downside , it would be that they might not be as flavorful as vine-ripened , but that still beats losing them . Also consider that most of what we get in grocery stores come from large farms where they are picked green . Just for the sake of saying it , many stores now also sell vine-ripened or locally grown tomatoes but they do cost more .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
The main things that can go bad with flour , assuming it is properly stored are : Rancidity Insect infestation If you do n't see any insects , and it still smells good , you should feel free to use it . If it smells off or nasty -- trust me , your nose will tell you -- then you will want to discard it . The actual date on the bag is only a guideline .
I am not sure if you are confusing roasting with charring but both are the same basically , though roasting the pepper by charring the skin would be a more accurate nomenclature . Roasting brings smokiness to the pepper and softens its bite . It allows you to remove skin more easily . When you char the outside of dried peppers in a dry skillet with spices , then soak , it allows you to remove the pith more constructively than tearing it open and it adds depth to the flavor . For fresh peppers they become somewhat less spicy , for dried peppers it allows them a more expressive flavor ( think of roasted sesame or pumpkin seeds or coffee beans for a comparison ) . Roasted peppers add a different dynamic than their raw counterpart and you should definitely look into the difference ( if you enjoy chipotles end adobo you already have a taste for them without knowing it ) .
end question
start question
What should I look out for when creating my own beef jerky marinades ?
I have to admit that I have n't tried a lot of free-form jerky experiments so take what I say with a grain of salt . ( see what I did there ? ) Jerky is a double action meat preservation method . You soak the meat with way too much salt and then dehydrate it . Bacteria do n't stand a chance . As Alton says in that episode " Club med becomes club dead " . Not one of his best puns but it gets the point across . Salt ( or soy sauce , same thing ) is n't required for the drying process but it is important for long term preservation . I have seen recipes that try to reduce it but I would never leave it out altogether . I would expect a reduced salt recipe to not have the longevity that most jerky has - If stored in an air tight container it will last nearly forever . The non-salt ingredients do n't really matter as long as they wo n't oxidize or pick up bad flavors during dehydration . The type of sugar also does n't matter - although the recipes I prefer do n't include any . I honestly do n't know about viscosity - I would expect it to need enough liquid to carry the salt into the meat . That would take some experimenting . It is very important that there be as little fat as possible . The leaner the meat the better and do n't add any to the marinade . Fats will go rancid quite quickly when exposed to so much air . Lastly - I think I 've posted this recipe before as the answer to some other question but it bears repeating . This family recipe is my favorite by far and I use it as a starting point for any experimenting : Auntie Fern 's Beef Jerky 3 lbs . deer meat or beef , sliced thin 1 T salt 1 tsp garlic powder 1 tsp onion powder 1 T pepper ( I like coarse ground ) 1/4 c. soy sauce 1/3 c. Worcestershire sauce 1/3 c. liquid smoke ( hickory flavor ) Combine and marinade 12 hours . Drain . Dry .
The same logic applies . The smaller the temperature difference between uncooked and cooked , the easier it will be to get an even amount of cooking all the way through . Especially with a fast method of cooking like broiling .
If you use self-made beef stock , try boiling a bit longer , so that the flavour of the beef is a bit more concentrated . Boil your soup a bit longer . Use more beef stock and/or cubed beef . I do n't know how much herbs you put in . Maybe a bit more pepper or rosemary can make a difference .
You 've got a few things to consider -- cost of the ingredients shrinkage energy costs time costs wastage So , in our decision making tree , we have to consider the real costs of each option . Say for instance that whole roasts are on sale , so the cost of a roast is 1/2 the cost of buying the deli meat . The roast is going to lose weight as it cooks ... it 's just part of the cooking process . It could be anywhere from 10 to 25 % , depending on the cut of meat and how hot you cook it . Obviously , there will be other spices and such , but we 'll assume they 're mostly negligible . There will be the cost to power your oven ... and that 'd be a function of where you live , if it 's gas or electric ( or solar ) , etc ... and if you make too much , and ca n't eat it before it spoils , then there 's waste . ... but then we get to the most important part in my opinion -- time , and slicing . Even if we assume our time costs nothing ( and when you 're throwing something in the oven and leave it for a few hours , that part 's negligible ) . Our real time comes in slicing it -- and I do n't have a professional slicing machine , just a bunch of knives , so it 's going to take me quite a long time , and I 'm not going to get it as thin as the deli can . And in my opinion , it 's the shaving of the meat that matters ; there 's a big difference between large chunks of meat vs. thick slices vs. thinly shaved . ... So , in my opinion -- is it cost effective ? maybe a little bit , if you assume your time is free . Is it worth it ? Maybe if you want to spice it special , or make it lower salt , stay away from sulfides / sulfates , or do something else special ... but as you likely ca n't slice it the same , it 's more likely to come out as an inferior product . That 's not to say that I wo n't ever do it , but I doubt I 'd do it anytime soon , and it wo n't be because I think it 's a cost savings .
Ok , first of all make sure you are getting French or Italian truffles , not Chinese or Oregon . Some people like the latter but they are quite a bit different . Black truffles do well cooked , while white truffles are usually only used shaved raw over a dish . When I use them , I like to use them in a situation where I will really be able to taste them . A few classic ideas are an omelette , risotto , or pasta with a cream sauce . Those all carry the flavor and aroma of truffles very well . Chop some of it very fine and put it in the dish and then slice the rest paper thin ( with a mandoline if possible ) over the finished food right before serving .
The BBC lists strong white flour as simply flour made from hard white wheat , which tends to have a higher gluten content . By mixing all purpose flour ( German : 550 , French : 55 ) with the package recommended amount of vital wheat gluten or by using bread flour you should be able to make bread in your machine just fine . I usually use either AP flour or a mixture of AP and whole wheat ( German : 1600 , French : 150 ) , or even all whole wheat ( although with all wheat I find adding gluten is extremely helpful for getting a well-risen loaf ) . You can also buy other types of high gluten flour , either with that label or listed as bread flour . If you live in a part of the world with " 0 " and " 00 " flour , the protein content of " 00 " flour is similar to that of all purpose flour , but the grind of all purpose flour will be more coarse . " Panifiable " 00 flour has the gluten content of bread flour ( <URL> ) .
Start with the milk and add ice cream till you reach the desired consistency . If you want to add ' bits ' start when it is about halfway to the thickness you want
Taste the meat and if it still seems edible to you then there is no reason to throw it out . When I make stock , I keep it on a simmer for much longer than three hours and any meat is completely tasteless by the time I 'm done . Three hours , however , is about how long you would cook meat to make a stew , so it 's quite possible that you could eat it . On the other hand , not all cuts of meat stew well and I 'm not familiar with this cut . If the meat has plenty of connective tissues ( i.e. collagen ) to gelatinise it should n't dry out too much . But the proof is in the pudding : taste it .
I assume we are talking about a variety of the Eastern European treat called Oblatne ( or a variety of that name ) ? Which consists of five to eight layers of store-bought wafers ( not " waffles " - in some languages it 's the same term for both , I know ) , " glued together " by a fatty or caramelly cream , pressed for a few hours and cut into little diamonds ? Like below : <URL> <URL> There are two main methods to create the cream , one based on condensed milk , dulce de leche or caramel , the other on butter , margarine or shortening . Often with an addition of nuts , chocolate and a dash of alcohol . Often , some raw eggs are included as well , so take the appropriate measures for these recipes . The common trait is low humidity in the filling , because otherwise the wafers become soggy and - worst case - could even disintegrate . Recipe requests are off-topic here , but a creative use of the terms wafer , cake , country of origin or some neighboring country , oblatne or oblate and your preferred filling ingredients in your favourite seach engine should set you off in the right direction .
Use the tapioca starch , or , if you can not find that , another tuber starch . It is more waxy than cornstarch , and therefore better suited for a glaze . It will give you a glossy , transparent appearance . Cornstarch is a mealy starch , with high amylopectin content , and creates a soft , fluffy , somewhat cloudy mass , not as glossy or as transparent as waxy starches . By the way , it should n't have an off-taste if you cook it through . I guess that most recipes haunting the Internet use cornstarch because it is so much more common in a home kitchen , and the home bakers found the result good enough for their purposes and/or were not aware that tapioca will give them a better end product . As you describe that you want a really good glaze , go for the tapioca .
If you like to cook using 3 or more elements at once , ensure you buy a sufficiently powered model . There 's nothing more frustrating than upping the power on one element and watching another one reduce at the same time . Touch controls look nice but they 're horrible from a usability standpoint . I always had problems with responsiveness with wet or greasy fingers . Cockroaches love induction . I do n't know if the frequency attracts them or it 's just the heat but they will come and eat out the wiring , even if you 've never spotted one in the house before . It 's a common problem as it 's hard to seal the electronics for thermal reasons . Board replacements are expensive . It 's one item I would consider an extended warranty on . As for any 2 " cooktop , larger pot/pan sizes ca n't be accommodated if you 're using 3 or more elements . Go 2 ' 8 " minimum .
From experience I 'd say those 6 months do n't stack . You could have 6 months in the jar , or 6 months in the freezer - very soon after defrosting the flavour would die out . If you have to freeze I would recommend using it straight from the freezer , if you can avoid it clumping . The overall potency is degrading from the moment it 's picked ! But realistically from the moment of grinding , as the oils in the ingredient are slowly seeping and evaporating out of the grain . Why not make smaller batches more regularly ? That 's what I do for garam masala , mixing a new batch every 3 months or so . I would always recommend oven drying spices / peppers very low for a long time - say 2 - 3 hours at 100C ( 212F ) . Wet ingredients could be dried in the same way , else added at the time you are going to cook with them .
The kind of oil you use in baking is mostly a matter of personal preference . Any neutral oil ( no strong flavor ) will do . I suggest you use an oil that you keep around for another purpose , which is not too expensive . Some good candidates include : Canola oil Peanut oil ( refined , except for those with peanut allergies ) Generic " vegetable " oil Grapeseed oil is also excellent but tends to expensive . Oils you would want to avoid due to the fact that they bring more flavor which may not be what you want in baked goods include : Olive oil Sesame oil Unrefined oils of all sorts
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
Go for 145 . 2 hours . Salmonella dies even at " low " temperatures ( from 135 ) as long as you cook it for longer . 135 for at least 87 minutes , will kill salmonella . However , I like it best when cooked at 145 for 2 hours .
Most bakers refer to this as a starter and it is extremely easy to keep up . You will need a plastic bag or a jar to keep it in , a cup of warm water , and some flour . You can either grow some wild yeast or add a particular strain to the growth solution depending what you are trying to do with the yeast . Once you do that , just leave it someplace warm but not over 100 degree F . Then once a day , you feed the yeast by removing half and adding back a half cup of flour and a half cup of water . Once it starts foaming remove to the fridge and remember to feed once a week . It will be with you for the rest of the your time on earth . Also , that half you take out when you feed it ? Makes a great gift to other baking or cooking friends . Also , if you devolop a dark smelly liquid , just stir it back in , it is normal and nothing to worry about .
I think that washing pre-washed greens is an issue of emotional security , if you do n't trust the purveyor . As the <URL> : Many pre-cut , bagged , or packaged produce items like lettuce are pre-washed and ready-to-eat . If so , it will be stated on the packaging . If the package indicates that the contents are pre-washed and ready-to-eat , you can use the produce without further washing . It certainly does no harm , but you then have to also dry them for most uses , so it is more work , and kind of redundant : you have paid a premium price to buy the greens already washed . If you are going to wash them yourself , why not buy less expensive produce , and perhaps have more control over what goes into your mix ?
When it comes to pairing specific ingredients , the general thinking seems to be that ingredients that share " flavour notes " in significant quantity will go well together . In practice it goes much deeper than that , because in addition to taste , foods have very specific and recognizable aromas which affect the perception of flavour ; wine is mostly sweet and sour , but you would n't substitute ordinary grape juice for it ; the aroma of the alcohol is unmistakable , and even between different wines you will have varying levels of " fruitiness " or " woodiness " . But let 's start with tastes : Chocolate and coffee go well together because they share characteristic bitter notes . The roasting of the beans also makes a difference ; the pairing works best when the roasting is enough to thermally degrade the bitterness without losing too much sweetness due to caramelization . This emphasizes the sweetness and de-emphasizes the bitterness and acidity of the coffee , making it closer to the flavour profile of chocolate . A traditional stock combines a mirepoix ( onions , carrots , celery ) with meat ( well , bones ) , both very high in umami . The end product may have varying notes of bitterness or saltiness from the vegetables but is basically one huge kick of umami . A lot of people also enjoy peanut butter and bacon together , which combines the significant umami and saltiness in both foods . Beets and sour cream are a traditional ( or so I 'm told ) Polish dish , both obviously sharing strong sour notes . Often chives are added , which are mildly pungent in nature and pungency tends to go with sour or bitter ( since it is created by sulfur which is perceived as sour , bitter , and also " metallic " ) . This tends to work reasonably well for basic pairings , but another very strong element of this is balancing all of the different flavours in a dish . Peanut butter and jam do n't seem to have much in common , flavour-wise . But when you combine them together in a sandwich you have the high umami and saltiness of the peanut butter , the sweet and slightly sour notes of the jam , and the hints of bitterness and/or sourness in the bread . Together you have strong notes of all five tastes and the result is appealing to most people . Five Spice is usually a mixture of cinnamon ( sweet ) , star anise ( mildly sweet and bitter ) , fennel ( mildly sweet and fairly savoury ) , ground cloves ( pungent and somewhat bitter ) , and Szechuan peppercorns ( salty and pungent with a sour aftertaste ) . The quantities are generally adjusted to balance out the tastes ; for example , fennel is the only really savoury ingredient so Five Spice tends to have more of that than other ingredients . Anyway , this is used all over Chinese cuisine as a sort of " wonder spice " . A really good roast chicken starts off high in umami and is then brined ( salty ) , buttered ( sweet ) , and roasted which involves the Maillard reaction ( bitter ) . This is missing sour , which is why a lot of cooks will throw a few lemon slices in there . But truthfully , even though this all sounds plausible , it 's really so much more complicated than that . Even though there 's some science at work here , the five tastes are a little like the four elements or humours ; it 's an almost archaic way of thinking about food chemistry , because our mouths and noses can detect so much more than that . If you want to see just how little we actually really know about flavour today , check out <URL> on Khymos , linked to from one of the related questions . There you 'll see totally nonsensical combinations like chocolate and garlic or mint and mustard that actually - with the right preparation of course - produce pretty pleasant flavours/aromas . The truth is people are still gathering data on this and we do n't really know , exactly , what makes some flavours work together . At least we 're starting to approach this scientifically and actually experiment and document this stuff , but there 's not enough data to form a coherent theory yet . Check the answers to my <URL> and the other question on <URL> if you want detailed data on which flavour pairings can " work " , although you might not get much of an explanation for why .
If you have oven safe noodle bowls ( ceramic , not plastic ) then line them , as you describe with the foil , but do not remove them from the bowls . Bake your pie in the lined bowls , then remove the finished pies , with their aluminum " pan " intact . Or just make pasties ... no pan required . As you indicate you do n't have oven safe bowls and it must be a pie , I decided to experiment , using the double foil idea . I have heavy duty foil . I used a double layer and lined a noodle bowl making sure that there was plenty of foil out past the edge . I then pressed another noodle bowl on top of the two sheets of foil to make sure all is acting as a unit . While the top bowl is still in place , crumple up the excess foil , making a rim . This is what will give you the strength you need . I would then take the top bowl out , and line the now stable foil pie tin with your pie pastry . Fill the pie and if there is a top crust , finish the pie . You can now take the pie out of the noodle bowl and bake it as usual , although I would certainly do it on a baking sheet . The double foil is much stronger than you 'd expect , but the stability comes from the rim you build with the excess foil hanging over the edge . Here 's the finished bowl with the two molding bowls .
One of the most important things is a <URL> . The tang is an extension of the metal of the blade into the handle . In knives with a full tang it goes all the way through the handle . This improves stability , control , and durability . Cheaper knives with partial tangs will have the handle break off over time . In a chef 's knife you want a blade from 8 to 10 inches long , whichever is more comfortable . You can also either get a forged or stamped blade . I suggest reading <URL> on the differences . To summarize , forged blades are softer , easier to sharpen , heavier , and have a bolster . Stamped blades are sharper , harder to sharpen , lighter , and have a welded on bolster if any . With current manufacturing processes forged is not necessarily better than stamped . You should make your own decisions . All crap knives are stamped , but not all stamped knives are crap . This brings me to one of the most important points : It must feel good in your hand . Do n't buy an expensive knife just because it 's expensive , or you recognize the name . Go to a store that will let you use the knife , Williams-Sonoma is one that will do this . If you can , bring a carrot in your pocket and actually cut that in the store . I 'll do some research on steel quality and update this later .
end question
start question
So much water in cake , how to fix ?
If you have a stove : Put a pan on the stove and use low heat to " toast " your cake . If you only have a rice cooker : The rice cooker is only for " wet-cooking " like cooking rice or steaming . I do n't know whether toasting food in the rice cooker breaks the cooker . Therefore I do n't know how to fix the cake then . :(
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
Dry and even heat . There is still a difference , even with the same cut of meat and using a roasting rack to avoid roasting the cut in its juices : meat on a rotating skewer will be exposed to uniform heat . If you set the temperature of a home oven to 350 & deg ; F , the top of the roast will be exposed to that temperature , but the bottom , in line of sight to the heat source , will be much hotter . <URL> also cook the meat by convection and use the heating elements to create the outside crust . As the meat roasts , it becomes darker and absorbs more of the radiant heat from the roasting coils . So the outside ends up getting overcooked unless the roasting coils are carefully controlled , which is kind of hard to do . In a convection oven the temperature is constant around the roast .
I think it depends how fussy a presentation you are working on . If it has to be perfect , there really is n't going to be any fixing it . If some variation is acceptable , just wait til it is a bit softer and patch the rip back together like you would any other dough . You 'll get less nice separation of the layers in that area .
I 've noticed that salty food has somewhat of an addictive quality ; people who eat a lot of it ( i.e. fast food or other processed food ) tend to bury their meals under a mountain of salt , whereas people such as myself who do a lot of home cooking hardly use ( or want ) any . " Season to taste " means pretty much what it sounds like ; add however much salt ( and other spices ) that you , personally , like the taste of . If you have a habit of eating a lot of salty foods , then you might want to add a little less than that , for the benefit of people like me who gag at heavily-salted foods . If you use a lot of other spices , you wo n't need much salt - a few shakes of the shaker is enough . If the food is basically bland aside from the salt ( and maybe pepper ) , then you 'll need to use more . The best thing to do is add a little , then taste , and repeat as many times as it takes to get the flavour you want . If the food you 're seasoning is still raw ( and ca n't be eaten raw ) , then just put in a small amount the first time you make it and keep track of how much table salt you needed to add . Just remember , you can always add salt later , but a dish that 's too salty is permanently ruined .
I 'm still happily using a non-stick frying pan that I 've had for almost 4 years . I only use Teflon utensils . I never use harsh abrasives . After cooking , I fill it with boiling water , let it soak for a while and then wipe out with paper towels . Most of the time I just give it a quick rinse and it 's ready for the next time . And buy quality - " Quality is remembered long after the price is forgotten " .
Unless there was sugar in your cream , there 's nothing particularly sweet about this combination . Did you salt the pasta water to roughly seawater saltiness ? If not , did you adjust salt before serving ? If your pasta water was under-salted , that would explain the sweetness , since the only significant source of salt otherwise was the parmesan . Heavy cream is equivalent to 36-40 % whipping cream . In the event that your cream was pre-sweetened , there 's not much you could do except add salt and hope the sugar does n't overwhelm . It 's a fairly common technique to add sugar to a salty dish to make it taste richer , or salt to a sweet dish for a similar purpose . But it would n't work very well if the cream was very sweet . Since I 've never seen sweetened whipped cream except in aerosol dispensers , I ca n't say for sure .
This question is actually answered in a <URL> you linked : kimberly says : Sorry for silly question , but the ingredient list says " 1/2 sleeve celery $ 0.65 " . do you mean 1/2 of a stalk or 1/2 of a bunch of celery ? [ ... ] Beth M says : Yes , I meant a half bunch . Sorry about the confusion ! :) I used about 4 stalks or so . They cook down quite a bit . Also there 's a picture of the ingredients used : So 4-5 stalks appears to be intended amount of celery . A recipe like this though is going to pretty flexible so if that seems like too much or too little it should n't be a problem if you go outside that range .
The major difference between butter and oil is that butter is only 80 % oil , with the rest being milk solids and water ( <URL> ) . This means that using oil you will lose some of the water content that your cake should have , possibly resulting in a dryer cake . On the plus side , cakes made with oil tend to dry out slower than those made with butter . The other possible different , but one that is unlikely with a mix I 'd think , is that it depends on the method of mixing in your fat . If the butter is to be whipped or creamed while softened this creates a different texture than one you could get with oil or melted butter . Whipped butter or especially butter creamed with sugar provides a network of air bubbles that act as a raising agent during cooking , and the result is a pound cake like crumb . If your recipe calls for melted butter , though , this is not a concern - the result is more like a traditional muffin or quick bread crumb . Finally , a vegetable oil has a fairly neutral taste . Usually when a vegetable oil is called for , this is desirable . Butter on the other hand has a more interesting flavor . Your cake may be a bit bland without it .
Tough question - there are a lot of non-scientific ways to measure small/medium/large potatoes and nobody seems to agree on exactly what weight each is . However , there are a few ways I identify large vs medium at home . In my experience , a large potato is about the size you would get in a restaurant ( I know , not very specific ) . That is , when I cook at home , the potatoes I purchase tend to be medium - round ( not oval ) and about the size of a tennis ball or baseball . When I 'm at a restaurant their potatoes are noticeably larger , and generally more oval shaped it seems ( closer to a sweet potato in shape and size ) , which makes them great for stuffing like for a loaded baked potato . Luckily most of the recipes I have at home that involve potatoes do n't require precise measurement , so I just stick with my eyeball measurements and do n't even bother weighing them . I found a source online that says this : According to Shape magazine , eatbetteramerica.com and prevention , a medium potato is the size of a computer mouse , so somewhat bigger than that . And I think I can get behind that answer . I 'd say your average computer mouse ( like , one you would get with a new PC , not a fancy third-party mouse ) is about the size of an average medium potato . Another way to eyeball : I 'm a 30 year old male with hands that are neither very large or very small . The medium potatoes in this bag are about the size of a loose fist for me . So a large potato would be bigger than either of those things . As for measurements , I have a bag of medium potatoes and it says they 're 5.3 oz ( 150g ) a piece . I weighed one and it was closer to 6.5 oz ( 185g ) . Based on that I 'd say a large potato would be anything over 8oz ( 225g ) , pushing as high as 12oz ( 340g ) . I found a way to search online for this info : calories . By searching for " large potato calories " I was able to find pages with weights and measures : <URL> <URL> So , in short , it seems like I would consider these good numbers : Medium potato : 2 to 3 " in diameter , 5-8oz ( 140-225g ) Large potato : 3 to 4.25 " in diameter , 8-12oz ( 225-340g ) Below is a picture of the medium potato from my bag , compared to some common household/kitchen items . The gift card is the size of a normal credit card , and the knife is a common steak knife from my utensil drawer . Apparently a medium potato is almost exactly the size of a 1 cup measure !
There 's no reason to peel besides the aesthetics of it . There 's no major flavor or nutritional difference either way . If the ginger is going to be seen then peel it , if not do n't bother . The best way to peel ginger is to use the edge of a small spoon to rub it off , it works really well , takes seconds , and does n't waste as much as using a knife .
There is a lot of water in the milk . The high heat turns the water into steam . The egg and flour contains proteins and gluten that forms a " net " . The steam ca n't escape without pushing the net upwards . This makes the dough rise . It helps that the container is a narrow cylinder .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
I noticed you did n't mention beans , which are fairly common in minestrone . Cannellini beans are most typical , but you could experiment with others ( garbanzo , fava beans , etc. )
When I was young in Asia , my mom would bake a cake on a coal stove in a cast iron pot . Hot coals were then added on top of the lid as a secondary heat source .
Fish contain very little n-6 ( Omega-6 aka linoleic ) fatty acids by nature . Most of the n-6 fats are contributed by vegetable sources during processing , such as vegetable oils used in coatings or pre-cooking . The amount of n-6 fats will depend on how the fish is processed and in which oil . The US National Library of Medicine has a brief article at <URL> . Info on n-3 and n-9 fatty acids in sprats can be found <URL>
Answer depends on how the kim chi is made . I make it using a <URL> . The protocol there is to treat the leaves with a salty brine for 4 hours , then rinse them extensively . No further salt is added in the recipe , so any salt in the final product will have osmosed into the leaves . Most of that salt wo n't come back out except with a prolonged soak * . I 've seen other kim chi recipes that do involve adding back salt after the initial brining and rinse . The sodium content of those could be reduced with a quick rinse , but you 'll likely lose flavor too . Juices in with the kim chi are likely at euilibrium with sodium in the leaves , so simply pressing the stuff lightly to remove as much juice as possible might be the best way to limit sodium without sacrificing too much flavor .
If you have a stove : Put a pan on the stove and use low heat to " toast " your cake . If you only have a rice cooker : The rice cooker is only for " wet-cooking " like cooking rice or steaming . I do n't know whether toasting food in the rice cooker breaks the cooker . Therefore I do n't know how to fix the cake then . :(
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
There is one very different issue to be kept in mind - water in a microwave can overheat and " explode " once it is disturbed . Another poster had exactly this problem a short while ago : <URL> So follow the usual precautions , e.g. putting a wooden toothpick or a small , very clean stone ( chemists have them in their labs ) in your vessel . In a pinch , a spoon will do , but not all microwaves handle metal objects well . If you are worried that heating your water in a microwave might not be sufficient to kill all " nasties " , remember that killing bacteria is a function of time and temperature , so you might feel safer if you not only bring your water to a boil , but continue boiling it for another minute or so . I would assume that this is mostly for your psychological benefit , but it certainly wo n't hurt . The temperature reached is identical for different heating devices as physics dictates the boiling point of water and it ca n't exceed that as long as it 's liquid .
end question
start question
Do breads always have to be baked in some vessels in an oven ? If yes , then what shaped vessels would those be ?
The general answer is that you use a <URL> if you want the common rectangular loaf shape ( it 's good for slicing for toast and sandwiches ) , and otherwise you do n't need one . For example , the link you gave for french bread completely describes how to shape and bake the loaf . There 's no wrapping in foil or anything ; you coax it into that shape , and it 's flexible and stretchy but wo n't spread out or anything . I 'm not sure why it refers to a " baking vessel " , implying that it 's something that contains the loaf . All you need is a flat baking sheet . Once you 've made bread dough this should be pretty obvious - it 's not a big wet mess , it 's something with structure that you can work with and shape . It 's pretty much the same with all other shapes of loaves - you get them into the general shape , toss them on a baking sheet , and bake them . You can make small circular rolls , small oblong rolls , big circular loaves , big oblong loaves , whatever suits you . There are certainly traditional shapes for some breads , and you should probably follow recipes , since baking times are of course affected by size , but the general principle remains the same - you shape it how you want it .
I 'll assume that you 're talking about pure maple syrup in a glass container ; if it 's that adulterated pancake syrup then it 's probably riddled with preservatives , so any advice here does n't apply . Pure maple syrup can and will grow mold on the surface if left in a cupboard . There are <URL> of this happening , and although several of those people say that it 's OK to simply strain the mold and re-boil the maple syrup , ( a ) I would n't chance it , and ( b ) that process is hardly any more convenient than simply taking it out of the refrigerator a half-hour earlier and letting it come up to room temperature . Maple syrup should be stored in the refrigerator . It does n't have to be , and it will probably take at least a year for it to grow any mold if left in the pantry . But it will last longer in the refrigerator ; I 've seen refrigerated jars 3 + years old without any mold .
No recipe alteration needed . Fried meatballs will develop more of a crust , and thus more flavour through the Maillard reaction . In any case , unless you 're making tiny meatballs ( or finishing their cooking in a sauce of some sort ) , they 're going to need to be finished via baking anyway . I would only do the baking method if I had to make an enormous quantity at once . For home cooking I always fry then bake .
The big key is just to soak the plank before using it , that way it wo n't burn while it 's in the oven . The amount of time needed to soak seems to differ among experts , but soaking for an hour should be long enough to cook the salmon without the wood burning .
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
Not using standard practice might violate safety standards in a professional context . Technically , the important factor is whether the residues are made of something perfectly water soluble ( sugar , salt , fat-free watery or alcoholic solutions , insoluble but not sticky solid particles ... ) or of something that is not water soluble and that will adhere to the dishes ( about anything containing oils/fats ) . If you could n't properly get it off your hands without soap , you wo n't get it off the dishes without soap .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
Applesauce has little flavor and almost no nutritional value . It is added to baked goods for the one thing it does have - pectin . Pectin interferes with gluten in a similar manner to fat although by a different mechanism . For this reason applesauce is often used to replace some of the fat in recipes for health-conscious bakers . <URL> . Or if you are <URL> . Other banana bread recipes are very similar to cakes and rely on a huge amount of fat - often creamed with a large amount of sugar . Your options are then to : Replace the applesauce with some other oil substitute . Another puree of high-pectin fruit would work . Switch to a recipe that just uses the fat and enjoy a richer banana bread .
There 's a lot of range of acceptable outcomes for this , so let me give you the parameters I work with . I generally start by mixing the cauliflower with some oil ( olive oil typically ; others substituted depending on the flavor profile I want ) on a baking sheet , then sprinkling with salt . This part is important ; if you skip the oil , you 'll likely just end up with dried out cauliflower . So every other bit of guidance I give is based on that . Additionally , it 's important to try to spread out the cauliflower so that it makes just a single layer . 350F works well when I do n't want to pay much attention while roasting . It usually takes 30-60 minutes , depending on how finely I break the florets . Larger pieces take longer . I usually check it every 15 minutes or so and flip pieces around . In most cases , you 'll get more gentle browning with this temperature than with higher temperatures . You 'll probably get the softest , sweetest cauliflower this way . If you are more impatient but you are willing to check on the cauliflower more frequently , you can easily go up to 425F . I can shave off a fair amount of time , and I 've had good results with even large pieces cooking fairly quickly , often in the 25-40 minute range . The caveat is browning is much more aggressive , and you need to rotate pieces more frequently , possibly every 8-10 minutes . You will often get a more caramelized result than with lower temperatures , and you may find cooking slightly less even . I sometimes prefer this because I like a balance of chewy and soft texture and I like the extra caramelization on the surface . Generally seasonings other than salt are best added near the end of the cooking process so that you do n't burn them ; spices , herbs , and garlic in particular ca n't typically handle much more than about 15 minutes baking .
Reducing the amount of charcoal used in the Orion Cooker and cooking longer can produce a more tender result . Specifically , using 6 lb of a 12.5 lb bag of charcoal and cooking for 120 minutes for 3 racks produced ribs that were not quite as tender as desired , but much better than the normal Orion recipe ( 12.5 lb of charcoal for 70 minutes ) . The temperature profile was as follows : The above shows that the meat temperature was held between 195 and 205 for 60 minutes . This profile is not optimal for the most tender ribs , so additional changes toward lower/slower may improve the result . Note that the charcoal reduction required a minor modification to the equipement since unless the charcoal is adjacent to the Cooker 's wall , the wood chips will not smoke . The modification is shown in a you tube video entitled " Orion Cooker Charcoal Saving Mod And Improved Tender Rib Cooking " ( <URL> ) .
To further add to this . Here 's an explanation from the Chefsteps site on brining The Effects of Brining Charged chloride ions from the dissolved salt in a brine will repel , destabilize , and unravel various proteins within the muscle fibers of meats and seafood . This is not altogether different than what cooking with heat also does to these proteins . The combination of dissolved salt and heat combine to increase the juiciness of flesh by drawing water in during brining and squeezing less of it out during cooking . Brined foods that are cooked have a telltale texture because the combination of salt and heat creates a firmer , more elastic gel than heating does alone . But avoid overdoing it , otherwise the flesh can become too firm and chewy , as well as too salty . <URL>
If you can get it , sherry is usually a good bet but since you ca n't , I 've used just regular white wine before as a substitute when you 're cooking a dish but you just need to be a little less liberal as you might be with rice wine as I find the flavour tends to be a little stronger . Another alternative is Sake , but I 'm assuming that if you ca n't get rice wine , you 'll struggle to find Sake .
Generally oven cooking gives a more even , surrounding heat rather than the direct and concentrated heat from below that a hob supplies .
I 've had good luck baking naan on an indoor grill . I have an electric one , but you could use a stovetop one as well . Just apply a little butter , ghee , or spray oil , wipe it off , and bake . ( Click for larger images ) <URL> <URL> I used an alternative method to make lavash : an inverted wok over a stove burner . You 'll need a gas stove to do this one . I applied them dry , cooked about 1-2 minutes on one side only . You can brush with butter or ghee after they 're done . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Tomatoes will last longer if kept in the fridge , but I actually recommend against keeping them there . Tomatoes lose much of their flavor when their temperature is brought below 50 degrees F. Keep them in the pantry . They will still last a few days at least , and they 'll taste a lot better .
Using a bicarbonate of Soda paste is a good way to clean the oven and does not involve any nasty chemicals . Also , as you need to clean the base of the oven , it can help if you remove the door if it is a drop down door . This makes reaching inside much easier . Most doors are designed to be removed easily . Sometimes your manual will provide instructions on how to remove the door for cleaning . Otherwise this video on <URL> may help as it covers four different types of hinge .
As Jefromi already mentioned in a comment , the sandwich bread common in the Western part of the world is soft and often sweet , ready to eat . When you search online for <URL> you will only get images of roasted bread with various fillings . I think the bread you refer to is in a half baked form , which you can find in supermarkets here sometimes too : it is used here mostly for baked sandwiches with cheese . The bread is only ready when going through another baking cycle .
I ca n't give you a list with good substitutes for common dishes . First , I doubt that my common dishes are your common dishes . Second , it would be too long . If you want to substitute alcohol in a dish , you have to understand what it does in the specific recipe , and then use your imagination to think of an ingredient which will have a similar effect . Alcohol has mostly three effects in a dish . First , it is a liquid , and its bulk must be considered . In recipes where the ratio is important ( mainly batters ) , if you leave out the alcohol , you have to add some other liquid to maintain the original ratio . Second , alcohol adds its own taste . A small part of it is the taste of the ethanol itself , but cooks mostly use beverages with a strong taste of their own as a component of the dish . Third , alcohol is a solvent . It can get more taste out of your other ingredients than pure water . ( Ever wondered why vanilla extract is alcohol based ? ) This is especially important in recipes which give it a longer time to interact with the other ingredients , such as the slow boiling of a coq au vin . Depending on which of these effects are important to you , you have different options to act . Just leave it out . If you are n't baking , you probably are n't that interested in the ratio . And if you expect the result to taste well enough without the alcohol , the simplest solution is to skip it . Use a liquid substitute . This is especially important in baking and confectionery , but you can decide to do it in any case . Depending on the original kind of alcohol and taste you are aiming for , you can use pure water , a liquid trying to stay close to the original taste , or a liquid which gives a completely new taste profile to the whole recipe . For example , in a sweet dish like your foster dessert you can use caramel dissolved in apple juice instead of dark rum if you want to mimic the original , or cherry juice to create a cherry-banana dessert . Common liquids to use are sugared water ( when the original recipe had a sweet liquor ) , a fruit or vegetable juice , a herbal infusion , clear stock , or pickle liquid . Do n't be afraid to use more than one liquid to get closer to the effect you want . If the recipe already uses some other liquid , you can just use more of it . Use a spice or condiment . This is when your main concern is the taste , and you do n't care about the missing liquid . Again , you could be trying to mime the original closely ( using orange zest instead of Grand Marnier ) , or just using any strong spice so the dish does n't become bland . It is up to you . A special case is to use only a taste " essence " : for some beverages common in baking , you can buy a propylene-glycol based condiment which approximates their aroma . Rum essence is widely available , but I 'm quite sure that the whiskey flavored ice cream in the supermarket is n't full of real whiskey . Leave the alcohol in the recipe ( possibly reduced ) . Obviously impossible in some circumstances , like a wine sauce , but quite feasible in others . You do n't have to drown the dessert in rum and flambe it . If you use 20 ml of rum per 1000 g of other ingredients , a child who eats a normal serving ( 150 g ) will consume somewhat less than 1.2 g of ethanol if no alcohol at all is cooked out - and in practice , if the recipe calls for cooking , maybe half of the alcohol will evaporate , and a very young child will probably not eat the whole serving . I do n't think that such miniscule amounts are problematic for children . Of course , you are free to combine these solutions in any way you see fit , depending on which effect ( s ) of alcohol you are trying to imitate . For example , if a baking recipe calls for 50 ml of calvados , use 15 ml of calvados , 35 ml of apple juice , and a breath of powdered cinnamon . Or baste a roast with a mix of tomato and carrot juice instead of red wine . The possibilities are endless , you just have to be clear on why you are choosing whatever you are choosing .
Antibiotics might be a reason , but it 's not the only cause . Other significant reasons are : exercise feed post-processing Most of the chicken available in grocery stores in the U.S. is factory raised ... they 're bulked up as quickly as possible without threat of predators . They 're fed corn , rather than their acting as pest control on farms , where they 'd be eating insects , moving about ( in their search for insects and other things to eat ) , and possibly running away from predators ( getting more exercise ) . That 's not to say that free roaming chickens would n't be fed corn or other processed feed ( or even antiobiotics ) , but that they 'd still have an opportunity for other food . The lack of predators means that chickens never have to fly , so they do n't need fast-twitch breast muscle , and they can grow to a size where they 'd never be able to fly , even for short flight to excape predators . Also not common in the U.S. are old chickens for stewing ... we have large chickens , but not necessarily the old ones , such as formerly egg-laying chickens that are no longer producing eggs . I have no idea what 's done with those ... they 're not in grocery stores , so I assume that they 're used in some other way ( dog food ? ) . One other possibility is the gender of the chicken . I do n't believe that males are raised for meat ( or anything else , really , other than in token amounts to sustain the species ) in the U.S. . I assume that a higher percentage of roosters would be produced in other countries , but I have no idea if they might be culled early ( if there are agression issues , etc , that would make them difficult to raise ) , like male cows are . And as for the post-processing comment ... much of the U.S. chicken is sold cut up , possibly with a brine solution injected , rather than being sold whole . This does n't seem like a big deal , other than the possibility of the brining , but it also means that chickens have been selectively bred for breast meat , rather than whole carcass weight . It also means that most of what we 're eating is white meat , rather than a mix of white &amp; dark meat .
I have only seen it used in dahl dishes , presumably because of it 's claimed digestive properties . Asafoetida is incredibly pungent ; anything more than a pinch seems too much and unpleasant . I think of it as a flavour-enhancer , a natural , Indian MSG rather than a spice in the normal sense . It makes your mouth water quite intensely and seems to stimulate the savory tatse buds ( umami ) . This is lovely when done subtley and kept in the background . Therefore , I suspect you could add small pinches to all kinds of savoury food .
end question
start question
Is there any way to make crepes without a proper non-stick pan ?
Crepes were made long before teflon was invented . I use a quality steel pan and non stick spray . I reapply the spray every 3rd or 4th crepe to avoid sticking . Everything else is temperature control . If your temps are too high then the crepes will toast and burn before they set on top . If the temp is too low then they are more prone to sticking . It takes some trial and error and the first few are usually wrong - I eat those . The temperature is always very low though - between low and medium-low on my stove .
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
At its simplest , guacamole is just mashed avocado . Avocado is not particularly acidic on its own , so add whatever non-acidic ingredients you like . Consider cilantro , sour cream or whatever low or non-acid flavorings suit you . See : <URL> for more on acid and avocados .
Honey contains lots of aromatic compounds , which are quite big , fragile molecules . This is one of the reasons why cold centrifuged honey costs more . When you decrystalize honey by heating it , many of these aromatic molecules break up , and you lose the complexity of the aromas . So yes , it is bad for the honey . Also , it may reduce its health benefits , as vitamins and other micronutrients tend to degrade under heat ( but only some of them - others , like trace minerals , are quite unimpressed by temperature ) . Of course , the question is not only if it is bad , but if it is worse than eating crystalized honey . This depends on 1 . The honey quality and 2 . the way you plan to use the honey . With the honey quality , it is obvious that , if the honey has already been heated in the production process , the volatile stuff has already been destroyed , so subsequent heating for decrystalization is not a problem . But if you spent money on cold centrifuged honey , you are negating its benefits by heating it . About the use : If you will heat it anyway ( as in putting it in tea , or baking it into a dough ) , there is no reason not to decrystalize first . Also , if you are only using it as a sweetener , even cold , there is no problem in heating it . But if you are using it as an aromatic agent , like in a creme fraîche and honey dressing for a fruit salad , or using it as a bread spread , then it will taste better if never heated . It will still have a general honey taste and aroma , but the subtle notes will be missing . Whether this bothers you or not depends on whether you rate aroma or texture higher . My personal choice is to not heat honey in these cases , but your preference might be different . Probably the best way to decide is to take a small amount of crystalized good quality honey , heat it , and compare it side-by-side with the crystalized version . Then use whatever version you like better . If you happen to like the decrystalized one more , it is probably a good idea to not spend money on fancy honeys in the future ( " cold-centrifuged lavender honey from South France " etc. ) , as it wo n't taste all that different from a common wildflower honey after decrystalization .
After washing them , fill them with a mild bleach solution ( one tablespoon for each cup of water ) and let them out in the sun exposing the stain for a whole day . Make sure children and animals can not reach the containers with bleach . There used to be a product called Cascade Plastic Booster that you could add to your dishwasher that would remove the stains . It 's no longer sold but its main ingredient was benzoyl peroxide at 5 % , which you may buy in most drugstores .
It 's not too much water that makes them soggy , it 's cooking them for too long in the water . Thin noodles are virtually done as soon as they break out of their dry , tablet shape . As soon as this happens , take a noodle out and test it . Remember that cooking will continue even after you drain the noodles . You should drain the noodles well in a colander . If you are planning on stir frying the noodles , you need to first wash the starch off them - run the cold water tap over them and circulate it through the noodles with your hand ( carefully , they might still be hot in the middle ) . They then need to be dried as much possible - spread them out on a board , pat with paper towel , and leave for ten minutes or so before stir frying ( preferably in an empty wok - cook the rest of the stir fry first , then empty it , cook the noodles , and re-add the meat etc. )
I just asked the exact same question here ! : <URL> I found a pretty good answer online . It actually would be easier and cheaper for you to throw it out , as you do n't have to buy as much organic flour in the future to feed your starter . Imagine buying 5 cups each day to feed your starter when you could just use 100 grams ! : During the " initial " development - and by this I assume we 're talking the first several days of your brand spanking new starter , what you 'll be throwing away is likely not even " starter " but rather flour soup wherein there 's a fairly good chance you 're also growing a few less-than-desirable cohabitants . This would explain why you 'd want to chuck it out rather than use it . You also cut back on your starter so you do n't end up with gallons of it since quite early on you do begin to make your feeds at a ratio of 1:1:1 or 1:2:2 . For illustrative purposes , let 's follow the 1:2:2 ratio and just assume we 're using cups ( easier to visualize ) although you really would be weighing , of course . So let 's say on day 1 morning feed , we begin with a half cup of starter . Half a cup sounds like nearly nothing , right ? To that we 'd then need to add twice that amount of each water and flour , so we add 1 cup water and 1 cup flour for a total of 2.5 cups . Still not that bad . Day 1 evening feed , we 're not reducing so we need to add to our 2.5 cups of starter 5 cups water and 5 cups flour for a total of 11 cups . Set it on the counter , hope it does n't overflow everywhere and go to bed . Day 2 morning feed , we 're still not tossing away so to our 11 cups we have to add 22 cups of water and 22 cups of flour . We now have 55 cups of starter or about 3.5 gallons . Remember , this is only the third feed and we started with just a measly half cup yesterday morning . At tonight 's feed , we 'll have 312 cups or 19.5 gallons of starter . Just enough to fill up four of those white Home Depot buckets although you 'll want at least eight of 'em so the starter can double in size . By morning of day three , you can fill your bathtub , if it holds 97 gallons ; it very well may not , and definitely wo n't hold the expanded starter . By afternoon , you 'll also be borrowing an additional four neighbour 's tubs for your 488 gallons . How soon before you need to move this out to a local swimming pool to continue ? Well , by the end of day five , you 'd be the proud owner of 305,175.8 gallons of starter . Or 4.8 million cups . Seriously . An Olympic size pool is about 600,000 gallons . By the morning of day six , you can fill two and a half of them , with leftovers . And it has n't even been a full week yet . And that 's why you cut your starter back down to a manageable amount each time . It 's a lot cheaper to toss a little bit out than to keep it and feed it . Source : <URL>
As Lars Friedrich already wrote , curing with salt is a way to kill bacteria . A high sugar content and the removal of water in general alters the <URL> .1 Some chemicals are toxic to bacteria ( and to some extend also toxic to humans ) like <URL> ( which is used to preserve caviar ; I 'm not sure if it only inhibits the growth of bacteria ) or ethanol ( drinking alcohol ) . <URL> are used - not exclusively - in wine making and on dried fruit . You can alter the pH. I doubt the food will be edible as-it-is . Last but not least you can <URL> the food to sterilize it . Irradiation is also commonly used to sterilize ( disposable ? ) medical equipment . Please note that freezing does not kill any bacteria . Side note : There are some other <URL> but they are not common as foodborne pathogens . If you really want to be sure that the food is sterile without cooking , you have pressure-sterilize , " poison " it or irradiate it . You can also preserve food even with bacteria and fungi : A sourdough has an almost indefinitely shelf-live . It basically only consists of flour , water and a mix of many different bacteria and yeasts . <URL> also has a very long shelf life . For further reading : The <URL> rule describes the six favorable conditions required for the growth of foodborne pathogens . 1 Caveat : ( Botulinum ) spores survive in honey . Do they count as bacteria ?
You could try lightly steaming it , but in all likelihood there 's no rescuing . Your best bet is to chop it and throw it in a blender to ' grate ' it . Alternatively , blend it with maltodextrin/dextrose to ( re ) obtain the powdery quality .
It depends . If you need it to soften up for just a little while you can throw it in the mircowave for about 10-15 seconds . And by a little while , I mean the time it takes to make and eat a sandwich . Other than that , you can use the bread for breadcrumbs or croutons . Also , dry bread makes the best french toast you will ever have . Basically , you ca n't turn back time on a loaf but you can make it last longer by freezing it and thawing a slice at a time .
I believe it depends on the source of the leaves . Kuding can be made from both a wax tree species and a holly species . I do not know about the wax tree , but teas made from holly do contain caffeine ( Yerba mate , for example ) .
Are you using non-stick cookware ? Beware because there is a well-documented medical effect caused by the fumes released when various non-stick components are heated starting at about 300 ° F ( 149 ° C ) and beyond . <URL> You should always have something in a non-stick pan when it is over a flame .
You could try Peychaud 's Bitters ( difficult to find ) , Fernet-Branca , orange bitters or other types of bitters . Worcestershire sauce may also be used as a substitute but works well in savory dishes . I would n't recommend it for a Manhattan . Or , if you 're very ambitious you can try to make your own bitters , although the ingredient list is somewhat intimidating ! Good luck ! <URL>
Two things . Use a sharper knife . Do n't chop , but slice gently . Let the weight of the blade do the cutting .
Since you love bacon , I strongly recommend getting a <URL> . That way , you can cook both bacon and sausage at the same time . I 'd slice the sausage to about 1/4 -1 / 2 " thick and lay them on the grill . Takes less than 10mins to cook both bacon and sausage , and you do n't have to flip either . Another good thing about the grill is that the slanted surface drains the grease .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
By the wording of the question , I 'm pretty sure you 're using one of those pyramidal graters or a " sheet " grater . That 's great for getting the " bulk " , but if you want to grate a small amount of cheese ( or the last bit of a large amount , if you do n't want to just eat it ) then you really need to get yourself a <URL> . They 're more commonly used for fine/hard cheeses such as Parmesan , but most half-decent ones will come with a " coarse " blade that can be used for cheddar , mozzarella and so on . Rotary graters all have a plate at the top that lets you push the cheese down onto the blade . Higher-quality graters will give you slightly better results ; the $ 10 cheap ones tend to leave a mush at the bottom that 's hard to grate , even if you squeeze really hard , but that 's easily remedied with a small wooden block or really any object at all to put between the top plate and the cheese you 're trying to grate .
I have not tried <URL> myself , but it sounds reasonable . It involves filling a clean milk carton or juice container with water , freezing it and then bashing it against a wall to crush the ice . I guess the container has to be quite sturdy to take the beating without breaking . Could be worth a try .
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
Never down the drain . We 've had a few incidents in my neighborhood where the sewer pipes were clogged with fat , and a few people 's basements flooded with sewage as a result . For fats that solidify , let them do so , then pitch them in your regular garbage . Chill grease in the fridge if you need to get it to harden up . For ones that do n't solidify , pour them into a sealable ( <URL> ) bottle , and throw the whole container away with your regular garbage . It 's possible that your area might accept cooking fats &amp; oils as part of a recycling effort . Ours does for motor oil ( I live in Maryland ) . For restaurants , some places ( eg , the state of Maryland ) require a system for catching grease that 's been washed down the sink . It 's my understanding that they 're fairly expensive ( a couple thousand dollars US ) , but the fines for not having one installed may be even more , and they wo n't let new restaurants open without one .
end question
start question
Ham and Pea Soup with whole dried peas instead of split peas ?
Whole peas will take longer to cook than split peas , but they wo n't ruin the soup . Split peas will also break apart more to thicken the soup , while whole peas will remain mostly intact . If you want a similar effect , you could use a stick blender to partially liquefy the soup after it 's cooked .
In Ireland boiled or glazed ham is a staple . Traditionally it 's had with cut up cabbage ( ideally you would cook the cabbage in the same water the ham was boiled in as this gives it lovely flavour ) but you could just cut it up and pan fry it with a little butter . Normally it would be served with boiled floury potatoes . Traditionally ( in Ireland ) you would n't have a sauce with it but a parsely sauce ( as stated in the other reply would be lovely ) or simply serve with some strong mustard or a brown sharp sauce such as HP . You could also shred the ham and serve it with noodles in a hot broth with some shredded cabbage and other vegetables . The ham is going to be centre of attention - salty , rich with a sweetness . The cabbage and potato are happy bedfellows as the cabbage cuts through the saltyness/sweetness . You do n't want strong flavours competing with the ham and neither cabbage or potato will .
You can use definitely use polenta/cornmeal for breading , but it 'll tend to be noticeably more crunchy than breadcrumbs are . An obvious comparison is cornmeal fried fish . People make it multiple ways : <URL> so it 'll add a definite crunch , while <URL> which will soften it up . The moisture from whatever you 've coated matters too . I 'm guessing pork loin is n't going to release a whole lot of water , but if you 're marinating it perhaps you 'd get some from there . Since polenta is coarser , I 'm guessing you might want to err on the side of caution , to avoid crunchy turning into gritty .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
First off , how do you store your yeast ? Storing yeast in the fridge helps it to last longer ; I 've had some yeast in my fridge for a year that is still going strong . As your yeast begins to become ineffective , I would personally get new yeast . Once yeast looses its power , you 're simply not going to get the same effect out of it .
In theory chakki is a flour mill , and chakki atta is flour fresh from that mill . Realistically of course nothing you find on your grocery store shelves is fresh from a mill . Atta flour is made from hard wheat , which has a high gluten content . This means that your flour is probably better for bread than typical all-purpose whole wheat flour from the baking aisle . If it is hard white wheat this might explain the color , as ground white wheat does n't look that much darker than all-purpose flour . Like typical grocery store whole wheat flour , atta flour is coarsely ground . This may give your bread a more grainy texture ( not a bad thing ) , and makes atta unideal for cakes , biscuits , and quick breads unless you like them with a coarse texture in the crumb . If you would like to use whole wheat for baking other than bread , whole wheat pastry flour is the usual suggestion ( or grind wheat yourself to a very find grind ) .
I 've had apricots that smell vaguely like alcohol before , especially the ones that are not completely desiccated but are still plump and only dried to about half or so of their original volume . I 've never had problems eating them and have n't had them go bad .
Always hot smoke pork . Unless you know what you 're doing . In which case you 'd know that . Look at <URL> for ideas on how to make a cheap home smoker that will work for you . In general , you need : a heat source ( hot plate works well ) container for wood chips/sawdust ( skillet works and helps modulate and spread heat ) housing ( any kind of box thing : cardboard , wood , ceramic , an existing grill ... it just needs to seal and maintain a bit of heat ) a rack for the food to be smoked ( or you could use rope and hang food as in smoke houses ) thermometer ( poke it into the top or the side to keep an eye on things ) Put it all together , put the sawdust into the skillet , turn it on , and adjust for desired temperature . I 'd recommend 200-250 for pork . You may also want to put a second hotplate in with boiling water , or splash a bit of water in the smoke pan on occasion to keep the inside moist when smoking for long periods . Before smoking anything , brine it and let it sit uncovered in the fridge for a day . This allows the surface protein to dry , and this helps to develop the smoke flavor .
There 's another reason for not boiling liquids , besides the possibility of making a mess ( boiling over ) or ruining it ( scorching , etc. ) . You actually reduce the amount of flavor by boiling . As <URL> : But here 's the deal : when simmering , water is not the only thing escaping . Ever notice how when you come home to a pot of sauce simmering on the stovetop or perhaps a beautiful pot roast braising in the oven , your entire home smells of it ? Guess what : if those flavorful aromatic compounds are reaching your nose , it means they are leaving the pot . So ... if the only goal was to make there be less liquid , boiling 's fine . But if you actually want to concentrate the flavors , you want a slow simmer . The article also goes into more details about reducing alcohol , and some problems with boiling tomato sauce ( which I believe applies to most pectin &amp; other hydrocolloid thickened sauces ) .
It will produce the same effect , however it might alter the taste ( depending on the type of beer ) , and will almost certainly alter the color of the final product , as beer contains sugars that will increase browning .
Most beans can be soaked and cooked together with two exceptions . The beans should obviously have similar cooking times . For example I would n't cook chickpeas with other , harder beans because the chickpeas would be mush . Most brand do have similar cooking times so this is n't often a problem . Second , black beans should n't be soaked with any other beans because they will stain the other beans a very unappealing gray color . Admittedly this is cosmetic but I soak my black beans separately
Dry herbs are slower to release their flavors than fresh herbs ; they will need extra cooking time to impart their full flavors , so add them to the dish sooner . Since they are less delicate and need the moisture , you may also want to add them along with a liquid , to help extract out the flavors . Crushing the larger-leaf herbs up a bit may also help . Use less dried herb than you would with fresh , because they are more concentrated . Although these will help , the sad truth is that even the best-dried herbs will not have the subtle flavors of fresher ones . Edit : One other technique you might use ( if there 's minimal cooking of other ingredients ) is to soak them in oil for a long time to extract flavors . I would suggest an overnight soak in olive oil . You can get more flavor out if you heat the olive oil before letting it sit to soak ; something like 50C/125F is a reasonable temperature to dissolve more flavor compounds , without damaging the more delicate ones .
You are relying on very different forms of heat . Conduction vs Convection vs Radiation <URL> <URL> <URL> What happens when you heat something ? A number of things . Proteins Coagulate Starches Gelatinize Sugars Caramelize Water Evaporates Fats Melt Depending on how you cook it , you 're going to get different forms of each of those at different rates . On a stove , you can avoid too much moisture and fat from leaving your food by cooking it extremely quickly ( in a stir-fry ) . . You ca n't sear something in an oven and you ca n't roast something on the stove . The two are simply not the same , because fundamentally the two are not the same , you are not going to get the same results . It 's really as simple as that . You ca n't take two entirely methods and argue that you get the same results .
Baking powder , especially if too great a quantity is used , adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good . Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly does n't do anything to enhance the flavor . Many baked goods traditionally do n't use a chemical leavener at all , but instead rely on technique . Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created . Yeast , on the other hand , creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread . Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes ( <URL> , for example , although many " knock off " recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness ) . Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network ( usually something you absolutely do n't want in a quick bread or quick cake ) -- you do n't get a crumb with big , airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid . Also , in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge . The shelf life is not so different . If yeast scares you , you may want to check out some of the proponents of the <URL> technique . For a lot more information on this subject , there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of <URL> .
If your caramel rolls are the kind with a sticky , gooey mass in the bottom of the pan that is flipped upside down out of the pan , then I would say that the rolls wo n't really get good and caramely in a stoneware pan . You 'd be better off baking one pan of rolls at a time in the metal pan . While one pan is rising and baking , just chill the other part of the dough ... either plain in a bowl , or prepared into a log that only needs to be cut . If the caramel rolls are more like a cinnamon bun , then the stoneware dishes should do fine in a pinch . This is assuming they are glazed stoneware and not terra cotta . Cooking time will increase a bit as the stoneware will take longer to heat up ( it will also retain the heat longer when removed from the oven ) . You could always just go out and buy some foil pans . I do that when I make rolls ( caramel , cinnamon , and sticky ) for the local fire company 's carnival . They go through 17 = 20 dozen rolls each year . I know baking rolls can be a lot of work , so what I have found to be very helpful , is to make the dough the night before baking . Cover with cling film , and let it have a slow rise in the fridge all night . ( you will get improved flavor too . ) The next day , divide the cold dough up and prepare as usual . They will take a little longer for the rise in the pan after shaping , but it sure is a lot easier on you .
You need to 1 ) increase the emulsification , and 2 ) reduce the amount of time the sauce is very hot . You can try adding honey or mustard to the sauce , that will improve emulsification . You can also hit it with a stick blender which will do a much better job of breaking it up than can be done by hand . Also it may look ok after a few hours but who knows how much separation is starting to happen at a very small scale and will accelerate when it hits heat . Add the sauce at the last possible moment before plating . It is n't going to benefit from cooking , and it is n't going to marinade into the cooked food , so do n't have it in any longer than it takes for it to warm up . 20 seconds is probably all it will take .
Roast Date Coffee starts to degrade fairly quickly . If you can find someone who roasts locally , that 's ideal . The closer you are to the roaster , the less shipping and handling and the more likely you are to get quality coffee . If a company is roasting something to be shipped nation wide , they have to make certain sacrifices . So like @Max said , look for a Roast Date . Within the last week or two is ideal , a couple months is decent . Origin For places like Tim Hortons ( Canada ) , McDonalds or Starbucks , they are looking for a very consistent taste every time . This is easier to do with a Darker Roast as you hide some of the nuances of specific crops . Often these will be from multiple origins to " blend " to a consistent taste . There are still many acceptable coffees that are blended like this . However , if you look at many of the Artisianal Coffee Places , they often tend to go for a light or medium Roast . They 'll also tend to advertise a specifc farm and country . The reason for this is that with a lighter roast you can taste more of those specific notes in the bean . Some places in my opinion go to far and under roast it . I find in this case it actually comes across as overly sour . So this is entirely up to you what you prefer or are used to . Packaging You want something that was vacuum sealed at the roaster . Coffee reacts with oxygen and degrades as soon as it 's roasted . Vacuum sealing it immediately , slows down that process . So this means avoid anything in a bulk bin in a coffee shop or grocery store . You also want to buy something that is a whole bean . As soon as you grind it , it also starts to degrade ( within minutes ) . You can find a ceramic burr hand grinder for about $ 30 . Personal Notes ... For me , I have a few local roasters that I really like , but for my daily cup I ca n't afford to buy them regularly either . So basically , I look semi-local ( for me it 's anything in western Canada ) for a medium roast from a company that can tell me where they got their bean . I look for words like " single origin " and " fair trade " and yes , even " organic " . I do n't actually care if it 's Organic , but I 've found these companies often care about their product more . When I get the coffee I like to be able to taste something unique in it . I 'm not sitting here looking for " hmmm this tastes of elderberries and caramel by the ocean in the fall ... " that 's a little too much for me . That said , if it just tastes like generic " coffee " , then I 'm not really interested . Not to say that any of this guarantees their quality ... so buyer beware . I do n't think specific brands fits with this site , as it 's too specialized/localized , but hopefully that gives you something to look out for .
Agar ... derived from seaweed . Used in McDonald 's milk shakes because it 's vegetarian and cheap , lab petri dishes and vegetarian cooking . Does n't have a flavour . You can find it in health food stores but I think many grocery stores are carrying it these days . Heat it up in water like gelatin and when it cools you have jelly . You could use Arrowroot to give a slight thickening for texture or even cornstarch but I 'm thinking those wo n't give you quite what you 're looking for though Arrowroot will be closer . I think there is a Chia seed gelatin too but do n't have any first hand experience with it . Chia seeds when soaked in water give off this thick gelatenous substance , very weird to see it happen . Ask about it at the Health food store too . Here 's a website for a few more substitution ideas . <URL> Good luck !
Debbie 's right about the gluten - overmixing is a reliable way to get tough pancakes . I 'm not sure what the best solution is within your process . By far the easiest thing would be simply to use wholegrain wheat flour , letting someone else do the grinding for you . Failing that , I think you want to grind the grains up dry , and then it really wo n't take much mixing at all to eliminate clumps . That 's going to require something other than a blender , though .
Soup freezes great in my experience . To freeze it for long term storage , you 'll probably want it to be vacuum sealed . In order to do this I freeze individual sized portions in Tupperware-style containers ( make sure to leave enough room for expansion ) , and as soon as they 're solid , vacuum seal those large " cubes " . They generally stack pretty nicely in our garage freezer . In general soups should thaw and taste very good , some flavors even seem become stronger or seem to enhance and meld better with the freezing . If you vacuum seal them as above you can throw them ( still sealed ) into a pot of boiling water for hot soup relatively fast ! As an aside , another great option with a leftover turkey frame would be to save it with previous odds and ends ( carrot/celery ends , onion pieces , etc ) in the freezer , and when you have enough make a simple stock . You can then freeze the stock into cubes ( in ice cube trays ) for soup-making later , sauteeing veggies , in place of water for more flavorful rice , and a ton of other things .
end question
start question
Why meat gets tough after soaking it in vinegar solution for more than 24 hours ?
Vinegar is <URL> thanks to its concentration of <URL> . It thus has a low pH , somewhere between 2.5 and 5 depending on the type of vinegar . Acidic substances can affect the delicate amino acids which form the <URL> that make up the majority of your meat ( along with other fats and connective tissues ) . The end result is not entirely unlike what happens when you apply heat . The proteins in the food change shape and coagulate , whether you 're applying heat or acid , and that results in " cooked " meat . It 's the principle behind many cures or preparations like <URL> that use chemical action to alter a food from its raw state . The end result often has less moisture ; thus it appears firmer and can be perceived as tougher . The other thing happening is that a strong marinade is much more concentrated than the water inside the cells of the food being marinated , and thus will tend to extract some water through <URL> . Again , you wind up with drier , tougher meat . Most marinades compensate for this to some degree because they <URL> , but 24 hours is a pretty long time for a strong marinade containing vinegar , so that may just be overdoing it .
The summary would be that there is a larger variety of flour ( measured by gluten content ) in the US than in Europe . SAJ14SAJ described the gluten categories of American flour , although exact figures for the category limits are hard to pin down . Peter Reinhart says cake flour has 6 to 7 percent gluten , pastry flour has 7.5 to 9.5 percent gluten , all-purpose flour has 9.5 to 11.5 percent gluten , and high-gluten flour has 13.5 to ( rare but possible ) 16 percent gluten . ( From The bread baker 's apprentice , section Types of flour ) . I measure exactly my gluten percentages and can confirm that these are good for recipes of the respective categories . These flours are all made from the same flour grade , with about 50 % of the grain removed and only the soft center used for fine bread . The difference comes from the grain type used , hard spring wheat ( high in gluten ) or soft winter wheat ( low in gluten ) . In Europe , where only soft winter wheat is grown , all the flour is in the 9-11 % range . But mills will sometimes enrich certain types of flour with added gluten , or by blending with imported flour , or by milling more of the bran ( wholer flour always has more protein ) in order to make some specialized high-gluten flours , e.g. Italian pizza flour . These flours are , aside from whole wheat flour , not widely available to home bakers . I can well imagine that a European trying to bake a European recipe with American bread flour will get bad results . But if they get the AP flour , there will be no problem in the gluten . There are many other properties of flour which differ , beyond the gluten content . But recipes are never so sensitive to them that they 'd fail . If you ca n't tell the difference between two brands of flour in your home country , then you wo n't be able to tell the difference between flour with the same gluten content from the other continent either , if both are unbleached and of the same grade ( = amount of bran included and particle size ) . All in all , this claim sounds like an unfounded emotionally-loaded attack . It is possible that the person who made it indeed failed because of gluten content , because they did n't know that they should be buying AP and not bread flour . Or that it failed for another reason and they were looking for a scapegoat , and garbled some half-remembered knowledge ( by the way , while the American wheat is genetically different , the gluten level difference was achieved centuries ago by selective breeding ) to excuse their failure .
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
I 'd like to refer you to my answer to the question about <URL> , from which I 'll summarize the relevant parts : Typical cast iron corrodes at a pH lower than 4.3 ; pure white vinegar ( 5 % ) has a pH of 2.4 and wine is around 3.2 to 3.8 . If you plan to use either of these in cast iron , you 'd better make sure they are heavily diluted , otherwise you may actually ruin your pot in addition to getting a pretty hefty iron supplement with your meal . Cast iron is still somewhat reactive at borderline pH ranges , i.e. tomato juice or sauce . It 'll leach out about 5 mg of iron for every 3 oz / 88 mL of liquid for typical cooking times . The typical human needs to ingest significantly more than 45 mg over a period of several days to become toxic , so it 's generally considered OK and even healthy to cook dilute tomato solutions in cast iron , but wine and vinegar are another story . Do n't fill your cast-iron cookware with wine or vinegar . A splash for sauce or deglazing is OK , but tossing a significant amount straight into the pan undiluted will ruin your cookware , and your health . P.S. Note that enameled cast iron ( Le Creuset , etc. ) is less reactive ; the specifics depend on the brand . If you have this type of cast iron , I suggest doing your homework before taking the risk .
Yes , it is perfectly safe ( as long as you continue to thaw the meat in a safe manner , as in the refrigerator ) . The marinade will not begin to have much effect until at least the outer layers of the meat are thawed , but it will not otherwise have any side effect . It may get slightly better penetration due to the changes in the texture of the meat from ice crystals , but the effect should be negligible at best . In fact , you can freeze the meat in its marinade if you so choose , and know what you are going to use it for when you thaw . It will get the benefit of marination time until the outer layers are frozen , and then again during the thawing .
Do n't Rinse You should not need to do more than shake the excess marinade from your chicken , or if you want to be very thorough , pat it down with towels lightly . If you rinsed , you would be washing away from of the flavor developed by your marinade , and the seasoning at the surface of the chicken . Cook on The goal is to not put the chicken on the grill with so much left over marinade that it fails to cook through and dry . By the time you are done grilling , the chicken should be essentially dry at the surface with nothing left to curdle . The other goal of the grilling ( or putting in the tandoor , I imagine , if you have one ) is to develop the nice browned and delicious flavors , and that wo n't happen if there is still liquid yogurt on the surface . Type of yogurt The particular type of yogurt you use should not be a factor , since it should be fully cooked in the grilling phase . However , in general , very high fat dairly products ( like cream , or a yogurt made from full cream ) .
I think it is mostly for the taste . It certainly is n't necessary - I roast beets without any vinegar all the time , and they turn out great . I just roast them in their skins , without any oil or anything added . It takes a long time , over an hour depending on how big they are . When they are completely tender , let 'em cool , and the jacket slips right off . Roasting intensifies the flavor by caramelizing some of the sugars and removing moisture . You can always season with vinegar after roasting , depending on what you plan to do with them .
You should always try to first bring hot quinoa to room temperature and follow the rest which you already mentioned . That works great , else if you try to pack it when it like burning hot , then the steam kind of stays in the packed room which later creates moisture and later spoils the food even though you keep it in the refrigerator . Best worked for me is by cooking quinoa in the night . Now I have lot of time to bring it to room temperature followed by pack it , store it and use it .
It wo n't be as nice if you place meat into the fresh tomato sauce . The reason why is because you are then essentially boiling the mince , so you wo n't have any caramelisation happening . That caramelisation adds a good amount of flavour to the sauce , so you 'll be losing that . Sure , the mince may dry during the frying process , but remember that it will get ' rehydrated ' anyway when you throw it into the sauce afterwards . Also , by frying the mince , you render out all the fat that can be used to fry the Mirepoix to add extra flavour . I like to add the wine to help deglaze the pot/pan once I 've fried everything , then I reduce to half , then I add the tomatoes last .
The pot will have more caffeine . You are right that the concentration of the final solution is determined not only by steeping time , temperature , etc. , but also by the amount of water available to dilute the stuff coming out of the tea , including caffeine . It will reach balance earlier with less water . So more water will get more of the different compounds in tea dissolved . For an empirical observation by somebody surprised by the result , see also <URL> .
I have had always success with sprouting fenugreek seeds that were bought as a spice . And an Indian friend of mine regularly grows fenugreek for leaves from the seeds bought for cooking . The seeds sold for cooking are whole ( intact ) seeds - they are quite hard and therefore difficult to break and damage . But I can not really say what percentage of the seeds sprouted - it probably would have been higher if I had bought seeds that were labeled for sprouting - but for me it was satisfactory . With most plant species the germination success gets lower with time . The seeds meant for sprouting have therefore often a germination success rate estimation on the label . And the manufacturers might therefore put more care into supplying fresher seeds and seeds of the same " age " to be able to guarantee that success . I have never heard of anyone selling toasted fenugreek seeds ( accept maybe if it has been some spice mix that already underwent some kind of tempering ) . I think sprouts in general are not very traditional elements of North African or Middle Eastern cuisine , where fenugreek is used as seed or less commonly as leaves . Fenugreek sprouts might be found more in Indian cooking ( where sprouts , micro greens and fenugreek leaves are used ) , or in more " hippy " / healthy-bowls styles of cooking . And of course the seeds sold for sprouting can naturally be also used as a spice , but they might be sometimes a bit more expensive ( and I guess that differences in strength of the flavor could also be found - so that the sprouting ones could maybe sometimes be milder / less flavorful ) . Anyway ... you can use them definitely as a spice , as sprouts , micro greens , or grow them into bigger plants and use the leaves . I would be a bit suspicious of the quality of the seeds in the big package if they are sold for super cheap ... but they might be totally fine .
Depending on what meat and cut you are brining , and how you intend to treat the meat after brining . You may need to experiment , anything from 50 % to 100 % of the time your recipe book suggest . Search for brining guidelines and other useful information , there are a large community that have a lot of knowledge and experience .
What kind of meat is it , maybe pork ? There are many kinds of pathogens in meat . One type are bacteria . They do n't die from cold temperatures ( not even freezing ) , but die from high heat . Unfortunately , heating the meat throughout so it 's hot enough to kill all bacteria will turn it into a shoesole . So , meat is cooked to slightly lower temperatures which are capable of killing most , but not all bacteria . And the surface of the meat comes into contact with the pan , so it gets much hotter than the inside . Because the surface is where the bacteria are ( they came onto the meat after it was butchered ) , they die in the hot pan . But there are other pathogens beside bacteria . One class are parasites . They also die from high heat . But they do n't sit on the surface of the meat , they were living inside the tissue of the animal before it was slaughtered . So , if you bring a contaminated steak to 55 Celsius internal temperature , but accidentally stick your thermometer in a too thin part of the meat - or do n't use a thermometer and hope that you can judge meat doneness by feel - it can happen that a parasite snuggled in the thickest part survives . And some domestic animal parasites can also use the human as a host , causing all kinds of ugly health problems . A prime examples would be trichinosis , a disease caused by a pig parasite . Parasites are rather rare in industrial food production , because there are ways to heal them in the living animal . You almost never get into contact with them , while each piece of meat you buy is teeming with disease-causing bacteria . So parasites are not in the spotlight of food safety , the typical rules are created to protect against bacteria . Given the lack of trichinosis epidemics lately , it seems to work . But if there is a high chance that you get contaminated meat , you can consider freezing the meat . Unlike bacteria , parasites die when frozen solid , and stop being a danger to you . I have n't heard of such a wave of advice in the media , it could be that there was a single high-profile case of parasite illness in your country , or that there has been a slowly growing epidemic . Or also that there always has been some danger due to the way animals are typically held ( your description of eating right away reminds me of a family slaughtering pigs they raised themselves , in which case there is no vet inspecting the meat ) , but that consumer rights groups have started a media campaign to bring the situation into public attention . Beside pork , there is high parasite risk in wild hunted game , as well as many kinds of sea food . Sheep can also carry some , but they are more likely to be in the organ meat , not the muscle ( e.g. liver flukes ) . AFAIK , beef and chicken are not typical hosts to dangerous parasites . Update : As Mischa Arefiev points out , there is a type of tapeworm which lives in beef . Freezing is effective against it too .
Microwave ovens cook primarily by spinning water molecules . Frozen water is less susceptible to this affect . I would guess that with certain vegetables , as frozen water turns to a liquid , it is quickly heated to the point that it boils and evaporates . The heating is less even than cooking frozen vegetables in a pot and leads to areas that are somewhat dehydrated and fibrous . Try cooking your frozen vegetables in a container with a lose cover and additional water . This will allow them to cook or steam from the the outside in much like in a pot . <URL>
After a bit of googling , I found <URL> which suggests that searing twice ( both before and after ) might be preferable .
Out of personal experience and out of personal taste I 'll give you the following : If you like it moist 55 degrees C for 4 hours . If you like it to feel like steak : cook it like steak . If you like your meat to feel more like fish cook it like steak for 20 minutes . Then drop the temperature by 10 degrees C.
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
As baka has said , more volatile components of the wine will be released with more wine surface exposed . Also , this not only releases aroma but also helps the wine to " breathe " and oxidize , which is why you open the red wine bottle half an hour before serving it ( so that this process starts ) , and why you might pour the wine into a decanter . This process accentuates the flavors and aromas of the wine . It is not very much necessary with younger , colder served wines ( e.g. vinho verde ) . In young , sparkling wine , a larger glass will disperse the bubbles faster , as well as warming it . This is undesireable , hence the smaller , narrower glasses . Aged white wine should behave similarly to aged red wine , although it does n't need to breathe as much .
It causes the pepper to steam a bit , making it easier to remove the charred skin . ( resting might also be a factor ... I 've never done a side-by-side comparison of covered vs. uncovered )
Yes , if it was still OK when it went into the freezer , and has been frozen the whole time , it is still safe . That 's true of all foods - if kept frozen , food will remain safe indefinitely . Quality of taste , appearance and texture are likely to have taken hits in that period of time , however .
end question
start question
What fruits have a low sugar content ?
As a metric , if you are concerned about cutting back on sugar you might consider fruits and sugars with a lower glycemic load index ( GI ; higher causes spikes in blood sugar ) as a metric for seeking more ingredients . Sugars with low glycemic load indices are agave nectar ( GI : 15 ) and brown rice syrup ( GI : 25 ) , relative to white sugar and honey . Fruits with low glycemic indices are <URL> Cherries 22 Grapefruit 25 Prunes 29 Apricots , dried 30 Apple 38 Peach , canned in juice 38 Pear , fresh 38 Plum 39 Strawberries 40 Orange , Navel 42 Peach , fresh 42 Pear , canned 43 Grapes 46 For more references and ingredients , <URL> <URL> .
To a first approximation , you can just calculate the volume of pure ethanol in each of the alcoholic ingredients ( total volume * % ABV = volume of pure ethanol ) , add those up , and divide by the total volume of all ingredients . For example , a margarita with 35mL 40 % ABV tequila , 20mL 40 % ABV Cointreau , and 15mL lime juice would have alcohol content of ( 35mL * 40 % + 20mL * 40 % + 15mL * 0 % ) / ( 35mL +20 mL +15 mL ) = 31 % ABV . That 's an approximation because <URL> : mixing 50 ml pure ethanol with 50 ml water will actually give you something like 95 ml of the mixture . To get a truly accurate answer , you 'll need to measure the volume of the final drink , and divide your total alcohol content by that .
The best way I 've found so far ( for juicing ) is to just thoroughly squeeze the pieces between thumb and forefinger over the flat part of the juicer chute so the juice flows down the chute and the seeds pop out for removal .
Use lighter roast coffee : caffeine burns off as the roast darkens . All other things equal , though , the stronger the cup of coffee , the more caffeine will be in it . You are n't going to reach caffeine saturation just by brewing ( even very ) strong coffee . So brew coffee with lighter roasted beans to your maximum desired strength .
Answer depends on how the kim chi is made . I make it using a <URL> . The protocol there is to treat the leaves with a salty brine for 4 hours , then rinse them extensively . No further salt is added in the recipe , so any salt in the final product will have osmosed into the leaves . Most of that salt wo n't come back out except with a prolonged soak * . I 've seen other kim chi recipes that do involve adding back salt after the initial brining and rinse . The sodium content of those could be reduced with a quick rinse , but you 'll likely lose flavor too . Juices in with the kim chi are likely at euilibrium with sodium in the leaves , so simply pressing the stuff lightly to remove as much juice as possible might be the best way to limit sodium without sacrificing too much flavor .
If it is completely empty , you probably ca n't reach dangerous temperatures with your stove . The iron itself melts at 1500 ° C . The seasoning can be burnt off at much lower temperatures , a self-cleaning cycle in the oven is enough for it ( 500 ° C ) . I have taken an iron pan to above 400 ° C without damaging the seasoning . ( I do n't know exactly how high it was , my thermometer does n't go above 400 ° C ) . This was on an induction stove set at maximum , I doubt that any other kind of stove can produce such temperatures . Edit I just heard an example showing that you can take a pan on a resistive stove to above 500 ° C with prolonged heating , so you should be measuring it if you plan to go that high . ( and if you have a thermometer in this range , you can post your findings to further limit the range of 400 ° to 500 ° C , because I 'm curious ) . But if you say " no contents " , be careful that it is actually just the pan . You can not oil it , because the self-ignition temperature ( of flash point ) of vegetable oil is low , Wikipedia gives it at 327 ° C . It could just smoke terribly and throw a spark or two when you reach it , but it can also flame up and then you are holding a small brand in your hand .
Have you ever eaten something so hot it made you cry and felt like it 'd never stop burning ? Given what you 've said you 've tried , this thing is probably 10-100x as hot as the kind of pepper that would do that to you . Please be careful . In any case , pretty much the sole point of a pepper like this is to try to be the hottest thing in the world . The amount of capsaicin is incredibly huge compared to the amount of other flavor in it ; you 're basically never going to taste anything but heat from it . So if you want to actually use it , just assume that the only thing you can do with it is make something hot . I have a decent heat tolerance and love things with a bit of heat , but I still probably would n't bother . There are plenty of ways to add heat with much less risk of creating something completely inedible . If I really wanted to make use of it , I 'd probably start with a very small quantity in a dish to try to get a sense for the heat level . This means using it in some kind of soup/stew/sauce where you can incrementally add things as you cook , not in something like a cake where you have to just go for it and possibly end up throwing away a whole cake . ( For some peppers I might also try touching it to my tongue first , but I do n't think I 'd recommend that in this case . ) Finally , you can always try to cover it up by using it in a rich , fatty dish , e.g. a sauce with plenty of cream or coconut milk , but honestly , you 'll still be lucky if you can taste anything from the pepper besides the heat .
My preference for sugar work is to either use a pair of rubber-coated cotton gloves like this : <URL> or to use basic cotton gloves and put latex or nitrile disposable gloves over them .
You could use the corkscrew in its classic role . Bore a hole , and then use the corkscrew to pull the sugar out in one piece . You should probably lay the tub on its side for this , as the sugar weight is probably too much to stay on the corkscrew . The other option , though rather extreme , is to cut away the plastic tub with wire cutters or shears . That way , you 're peeling the tub away , and will be left with the same lump , but no tub .
Sugar helps with moisture content and its mobility in baked goods . Every industrial sliced bread has sugar as a major ingredient . It is there to slow down staling . It 's not clear how it does it , but sugar seems to impede the modification of starch and the flow of moisture to gluten . Sugar also helps breads retain more moisture . This very obvious among breads , but it applies to cakes , which are breads with added fat and sugar .
Sugar acts as a stabilizer in the heating process of eggs . It acts as a bit of " insurance " to keep the eggs from curdling under the moderate heat during the cooking process . It is a necessary component in making citrus curds .
White sugar was commonly used as a preservative in the past , in much the same way as salt . It 's wildly hygroscopic ( like salt ) , and an excellent desiccant , so if you packed something in it , it would accelerate the drying process . This is actually the origin of fruit jam and fruit preserves , which are still common today , even after better methods of preservation are available . Salt was more common simply because many things like eating/living in WET sugar , so you had to be careful with how much water was in the thing you were trying to preserve . But as long as the sugar was dry it 's an extremely hostile environment for bacteria and little crawly things . Kept dry , it will last forever .
It does n't do anything , it 's your second suggestion . The feeling of " right/wrong " and " like/dislike " is highly correlated with familiarity . This is proven not only by psychometry , but even physiologically , with fMRI scans . People like most whatever they are familiar with , up to the point that unfamiliar things seem wrong . This applies not only to bay leaves , but also to all other tastes ( or taste combinations ) and many other areas of life , even beyond sensory perception . You can teach yourself to like bay-leaf-less sauce too , by just eating it frequently enough that it becomes familiar . But I do n't see any advantages in doing so . Just cook with bay leaf and enjoy it .
The vitamin loss is due primarily to the puree'ing . The viramin A in mangoes comes from beta-carotene , and beta-carotene breaks down easily due to oxidation . On a similar note , I 've seen recommendations that carrots ( another good source of beta-carotene ) not be chopped into small pieces before canning to preserve their vitamin content . Lots of vitamins are also destroyed by the heat of canning , but beta-carotene is not as susceptible to this problem because it is fat soluble .
Sugar is not really a wet ingredient , it 's just treated as one in certain types of baking ( i.e. cakes ) . When making a cake or other " fluffy " baked good , you want a fairly small amount of gluten to be produced , otherwise you 'll get a chewy texture instead , and you definitely do n't want a cake to be chewy like bread . Dissolving sugar in the water inhibits the gluten-forming proteins . It 's a method ( actually , the method ) of adding more liquid to the mix without getting a tough , chewy cake . It is for this reason that sugar is considered a " wet ingredient " - because the process only works properly if you add it with the water , not with the other dry ingredients . It 's even possible for sugar to be a dry and wet ingredient in the same recipe ; you might add just enough sugar to the water to get the right texture , and add more to the dry ingredients for further sweetening .
There is no real difference between types of granulated , white sugar . The options you are likely to see are cane sugar and beet sugar . Granulated sugar from sugarcane is often considered " superior " to beet sugar by Americans , but the idea that cane sugar is in any way superior to beet sugar has no basis . Granulated beet sugar and granulated cane sugar are completely interchangeable and indistinguishable . Swapping them will cause no issue . By the way - this is sugarcane : <URL> These are sugar beets : <URL> I 'd post a picture of the granulated sugar made from each , but it seems kind of pointless as they look the same . <URL> On this question ( almost an exact duplicate ) , some posters see a small difference . I never have . <URL>
High fructose corn syrup is a preservative . While sugaring your ketchup is good for flavor , HFCS is great for shelf stability , as is the vinegar . The reasons you typically see HFCS in American Ketchups is that it is ( 1 ) heavily subsidized and domestic and cheap , ( 2 ) farmed by the same companies making the tomatoes , and ( 3 ) a preservative . Also , it helps to improve flow while maintaining viscosity . Sugar generally can be used to cut the acidity in a tomato dish without inhibiting the taste or outshining the tomato . My stepfather had digestion issues with high acidity meals and swore by a teaspoon or two of sugar to help aid the stomach issues . Likewise , the acidity of ketchup may well be mitigated by all the sugar .
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
While sugar makes a liquid thicker , it is not considered a thickening agent . Sugar is a crystal . When you add it to water , what you get is a simple solution . A solution of a solid in water is always thicker than water . This happens with all kinds of everyday substances . Whenever you add a thick liquid or a solid to a thin liquid , the result is a semi-thick liquid . The " thickening " here is roughly proportional . In that sense , you are not thickening the thin liquid , but creating a mixture whose thickness is the average of the thicknesses of its components . A thickening agent , on the other hand , really thickens . It does not dissolve in liquid in the sense that it breaks down into ions swimming freely among the polar water molecules , but creates a hydrocolloid , also known as a " gel " . This is a very special phase combination in which a few solid strands of matter trap lots of liquid in such a way that the liquid can not flow easily . This results in a thick consistency . Because a single molecule of a hydrocolloid building substance can trap lots of water , you can add little amounts of this stuff to create really thick liquids . Starch is added at a ratio of about 1:10 to create pudding , and some others such as xanthan can be used at ratios as low as 1:200 to create a creme and 1:1000 to create a milky-thick liquid out of water . At these consistencies , they rarely have consequences for flavor or nutrition , but really change the texture of your food . This is opposite to dissolving solids like sugar : if you wanted to add enough sugar to get your solution to a milky-thick consistency , you 'd have an unbearably sweet liquid . For achieving a creme-like thickness , you actually need a supersaturated sugar solution , which is basically a candy ( you 'd have to stop heating somewhere below the soft ball stage ) . So , while sugar does thicken somewhat , you will not use it for the purpose of thickening . If you were to choose the amount of sugar to add based on how thick you want your food , you will change all of its other properties , starting with making it overly sweet . The exception is when you are making candy : here , you are really using the thickening power of sugar , and you are controlling the amount of sugar such that you get the desired final consistency . Another exception is making jam - while it also has pectin together with the sugar , the amount of sugar is high enough that it also contributes a lot to consistency .
There is a mid-strong correlation between starchy vegetables and root vegetables , but not a perfect one . Plants have many types of roots . Some of them are thin and fine , others are large . Their primary purpose is to extract nutrients and water from the soil and pass it up to the rest of the plant , but some plant families have started using their roots ( and underground parts of the stem , which non-botanists mistakenly call " roots " ) for storage purposes . This is why some plants have rhizomes , tubers and bulbs . Starch is a very efficient way to store energy in a small volume and without much risk of spoilage , so many plants employ it for that purpose . ( The other efficient carbohydrate-based storage molecule class is the sugars ) . So underground storage organs frequently contain high levels of starch , for example potatoes and yams . Over the centuries , humans have selected food based on mainly calorie density , taste , and obtainability . Starchy roots are better than many other roots for both calorie density ( explained above ) and obtainability ( it is easier to pull 100 clean gram of potato out of the earth than 100 g of dainty clover roots , for example ) . So many of the roots humans eat are , in fact , starchy . But we also eat other roots . Onion bulbs contain stored energy primarily as sugars , not as starch . Other roots like radishes are much less calorie dense ( their main macronutrient is still starch , but they have little macronutrients per unit of weight when compared to e.g. potatoes ) , but they are eaten for their strong , pleasant taste , and still easy obtainability . But a root is not the only place where a plant can store energy , and different plants employ other places . The fruit is a very common place . And while some plants store mainly sugars there , other store mainly starches . Botanical fruits ( some of which are called " vegetables " in the kitchen ) are eaten frequently , and are a major source of starch in the diet . Peas , pumpkins , chestnuts and plantains are all examples for high-starch fruit vegetables . Other fruit vegetables are like the radish - there is not much starch stored in them , but even less of everything else , so they are still considered high in starch . An example would be tomatoes . So , there are many non-root vegetables which are high in starch . You may want to note that starch needs to be cooked , while sugars do n't . So , if you have a dish of cooked root vegetables , most of them will be high in starch . Assuming that the waiter was n't bringing you a salad , it was probably a good decision to take out all root vegetables . But it is n't a good decision to stop at the root vegetables , because there are non-root vegetables high in starch . It could be that the waiter did n't know that , or that he knew it , but also knew that this specific dish does n't contain any non-root starchy vegetables . Whatever it was , you are better off by memorizing a list of the vegetables you ca n't eat , than by trying to follow generalizations of the kind " do n't eat root vegetables " .
end question
start question
Should I finish teriyaki sauce with butter ?
I would not recommend doing so . The technique you describe is known as <URL> , which as you might guess from the name is a <URL> in the French culinary tradition . It translates literally to " mount with butter " and is used to provide a rich , velvety mouthfeel to both white and brown sauces . By contrast , <URL> sauce originates in Japanese cuisine , which is a whole different tradition . Like Chinese cuisine and other east Asian cooking , Japanese cuisine does n't make use of much dairy , <URL> . Teriyaki sauce is generally a <URL> that gets its richness from a high proportion of sugar and can be thickened with cornstarch ( as seen in <URL> ) . You could try mounting a teriyaki sauce with butter , but my suspicion is that you might cause some of the sugar in the glaze to seize and crystallize by introducing cold butter ( as typically recommended when mounting ) and it would not be common in the culinary tradition that teriyaki comes to us from . So you can skip this step without causing any harm to your sauce or offense to any French or Japanese bystanders .
Basically it all depends on temperature : Every fat or oil has a specific smoke point ( <URL> ) , at which temperature it starts to degrade . That means , not all oils are suitable for every heat , or all types of frying . Some types of oil should remain " cold " , like extra-virgin olive oil . Butter has a rather low smoke point ( 325-375 ° F or 163-190 ° C ) due to milk solids . So , frying with butter is a bit tricky temperature-wise , but often butter is choosen for taste . ( Clarified butter , on the other hand , has a smoke point of ca. 485 ° F or 252 ° C , which makes it usable for pan - or deep-frying . The taste is somewhat similar to butter , but not equal . ) As eggs are typically fried at a " low " temperature , using butter is fine . An example from the opposite end of the heat range would be asian cuisine , where food is prepared in a wok at very high heat . ( I wo n't give recommendations what to use &amp; when , as there are subtle differences , even between brands . If in doubt , read the label . ) So , to cut a long story short : Decide what you want to do , how hot your pan is going to be and pick the matching oil .
Margarine has less fat than butter , but it does n't give quite the same flavor as butter does . You also have to be careful what KIND of margarine you are using . Tub margarine has a higher water content and can ruin your baked goods and the stick margarine can have a lot of trans fats in it . If you really want to get detailed into the differences , check out this site : <URL> I agree with everything stated on that site in the fact that butter , in my opinion is far superior in flavor and texture than margarine . I have yet to meet a dish that butter did n't improve the taste over margarine . But there is the thing , it really is a lot about taste . A good quote from the site about margarine : " Not great for baking : does not allow foods to become flaky , rather more cakelike ; does not spread as well as lard or shortening ; adds a greasy taste . However , some bake with it all the time and have great success ; it 's a matter of taste . "
Another option is to make your popcorn in a pot using butter as the oil for the bottom . I find that if you toast the unpopped popcorn kernels in the butter , it gives a bit of a butter flavor to the entire pot -- less than if you were to put butter on the top , but plenty for me .
It 's essential to get all the debris ( seeds , large fibrous bits , skins etc ) out of the pulp . I normally add a little hot water in a bowl with the block of pulp , be careful not to add too much or it 'll end up watery - better to add more as you go , wash your hands thoroughly and break the pulp up by hand . Then strain out the seeds etc and it 's ready to use . You can buy ready to use Tamarind puree in shops but it 's normally not a good . There 's more info on working with Tamarind pulp in the footnotes here ( as well as a good Pad Thai recipe ) <URL>
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
It really depends on what your goal is ; that is , what you are doing with the pasta . If you are making most authentic Italian pasta dishes , the slightly under cooked pasta is transferred to the pan in which the condiment was prepared . It is then tossed with some water from the pot that that the pasta was cooked in , along with some butter or olive oil ( depending on the region of the dish ) . This finishes the cooking , emulsifies the sauce , and mixes in the the condiment . The final dish is not about pasta or the condiment in isolation , but rather the combination . Just like a salad is not about the lettuce , per se , but the combination of lettuce and dressing . It is true that pasta will potentially absorb the sauce and get mushy if stored in fridge . This is less of a problem if sauced appropriately , but still , it is possible . First choice , prepare only enough pasta for the meal . Depending on the type of pasta , you are only looking at a maximum of 10 - 12 minutes of cooking and often less . So , it 's not really about convenience . If you find you have cooked more than you need , you could always chill and reserve non-sauced pasta , then reheat it in condiment at another time . But , in my opinion , this would be inferior to freshly cooked , and take almost as much time . If your goal is a cold pasta salad , by all means , cook , chill , then mix with dressing whenever you need it .
You could fold with a heat-safe silicone spatula , that will let you reach the whole surface of the pan so you do n't get scorching , without introducing so many bubbles . Or if you happen to have a vacuum machine , put your sauce in a bag after you make it and vacuum out all of the air . Voila , bubbles gone .
Your question makes me think of demi-glace . From your question , I would say that you 're trying to get a nice shiny thick sauce for your duck , one that tastes of red wine . If that 's your goal , I would recommend you Reduce your stock down until it 's about the total volume of liquid that you 're going to want . The stock reduction should be roughly the consistency you want your final sauce to be . Add an equal volume of wine Reduce down to desired consistency ( so about by half ) . This will give you a lovely sauce , with lots of that sticky goodness that reduced stocks deliver so nicely . You might do this with all of your stock , then freeze cubes of unused sauce for later ; they make a great addition to other bases . Left-over alcohol is not going to be an issue here , by the way , you 'll have long since boiled/simmered it off .
An0r4k , I assume that you 're making a cup of black ( ? ) tea and steeping some lemongrass in it . If so , perhaps you should make the black tea very weak as its tannins might be amplifying the ( pleasant ) slight bitterness of the lemongrass to distasteful levels . Alternatively , if you are steeping the lemongrass in hot water , try removing the outer layers of the lemongrass stalk . If they are old or tough , this can increase the bitterness of the drink . In any case , check that there is n't any dirt trapped between the layers of the lemongrass . Some recipies call for putting the lemongrass into water , bringing it to a boil and then letting it simmer for 10-15 minutes . I have n't tried this . Even if it does produce a smoother taste , then the boiling might well degradge any health-giving nutrients from the lemongrass .
A couple things : make sure you 're removing enough of the fat from the pan . Too much fat will keep the sauce thin ( and will also tend to separate out afterwards ) . Also , fat will not evaporate -- if your remaining liquid is fat , the temperature will rapidly rise , and very quickly things will burn . depending on what you 're adding , you may need to use a thickener . There is a reason three of the five mother sauces have roux . ( Hollandaise has egg , which thickens , Tomate has tomato which has lots of pectin , which also thickens , so those two do n't need it ) . A good stock or broth has plenty of gelatin , which will thicken especially upon cooling . When you add your deglazing liquid , you need to thoroughly scrape up the fond and stir it in . Keep stirring , especially towards the end when its somewhat thick . Also especially if your pan has hot spots . Turn down the temperature . This should go without saying when things are burning . Some heat helps with deglazing , but after that you do n't actually need anything more than a low simmer -- higher evaporates faster ( important , since the meat is often resting &amp; cooling ) but not burning the sauce is more important .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
You find that storing in the fridge is going to give you the longest life span . Hanging will keep keep the process of drying out continuing , which will intensify the flavour but will eventually become jerky texture . Wrapping will keep a little moisture in longer . If you do keep it for a period of time , you will develop a white mould which I will just cut of as it is just surface . The curing has stopped the pork breaking down . When I travelled through Spain , all of the city markets would have whole pieces of prosciutto hanging from there stalls that where covered in a fat that was covered in a green mould . When they needed a new piece they cut the mould and fat off and would start slicing for the customers ( some up there for over a year ) . I think the fridge is safer .
It does n't really matter . A lot of people cook them with peel still on and peel it with their hands when cooked ( Careful , hot ! ) . You can peel them before you cook them , and then it 's just a question of taste I 'd say . Personally , I would peel off the white as well , though I 'm not sure about this .
I make a sort-of-vinaigrette that I usually use as a salad dressing , but it 'd probably be good with other things . My usual recipe is to halve a few pints of cherry tomatoes , toss them with some sugar and salt , then drain them into a bowl for a while . After they 've drained , I reduce the tomato juice with honey , shallot , dijon mustard , and cider vinegar , let it cool , then add a little olive oil , salt , and pepper .
First , I 'm assuming by " pesto " you mean " Pesto alla Genovese " , given your question about pine nuts . Basil , pine nuts , garlic , olive oil , and cheese is a delicious combination , but it 's only one of many " pestos " ( peste , actually ) , since pesto refers in general to any sauce which is made from crushed or pureed ingredients . Mix and match to your heart 's content . Walnuts are actually a traditional alternative to pine nuts for Pesto alla Genovese ; pine nuts have always been scarce , even in early-20th-century Italy . As a caution , though , you need to get good , fresh walnuts and make sure to get all of the skin off the nuts , or the pesto will taste bitter and rancid . Almonds could also work , although I 'd think they 'd be rather bland . The herb pastes which traditionally have crushed almonds -- such as Romanesco sauce -- include some hot pepper . Again , freshness and getting the skin off is important . I 'd think sunflower seeds would be kind of odd and oily , but you do n't know until you try . If you do , post a comment to let us know !
Sometimes finishing is referred to as enriching , and from what I 've seen , the finishing ingredient tends to be something that breaks down or otherwise changes in cooking , like walnut oil or cognac . The purpose is to keep the flavour of the ingredient without cooking it ; finish it when you reheat it .
Butter and egg yolks have very different profiles in terms of their uses in recipes and constituent parts . Butter usually has 80-85 % fat by weight , while egg yolks are only about 25-30 % fat . Butter has only a trace amount of milk proteins , while egg yolks typically have 15 % or more protein by weight . Butter has only a small amount ( about 15 % ) of water , while egg yolks are about 50 % water . And then there are all sorts of differences in trace chemicals , which also have big effects when cooked ( e.g. , eggs coagulate , while butter melts ) . I 've never tried such a strict substitution myself . But extra egg yolks are common in many baked goods , and I 've seen people substitute a single egg yolk for a small amount of fat or the reverse . As for the effect of additional egg yolks in cookies , Serious Eats <URL> : Egg yolks also provide some moisture and protein , but more importantly they provide a well-emulsified source of fat . When cooked , egg yolk forms a tender protein coagulum that can keep cookies tender and fudge-like . A high proportion of egg yolk leads to a more brownie-like texture in a finished cookie . Meanwhile , if you lose butter , you 'll be eliminating significant amounts of fat and flavor . The texture will also be altered significantly : since butter melts during baking , it contributes significantly to cookie " spread " rate . ( The extra moisture from egg yolks may help the cookie dough to spread , but it may make it harder to work with . ) If your recipe involves creaming butter and sugar together , the texture may also be affected , because creaming introduces air bubbles that can lighten the cookies . Eggs too contribute to leavening , but that effect is mostly from whites . In general , egg yolks are going to provide much more moisture than butter but lower ( though still important ) amounts of fat . You may need to play with the other liquid proportions to get a useful batter . And the protein and tendency to coagulate will alter the structure of the cookies considerably . My guess is that most cookies with such a substitution will come out fairly dense with an odd fudge-like texture and " eggy " flavor . If you 're substituting a single egg yolk for a small amount of butter , it might work with a little tweaking . But if your recipe has large amounts of butter , the final cookies will be very different and perhaps unpalatable . In that case , you 'll probably have to substitute a few different things for the butter to produce acceptable results ( specifically something else to add sufficient fat and to balance the flavor of the cookies ) . Or , an easier solution would be to find a recipe or type of cookie that does n't require butter . Producing good results when removing one of the major components of a recipe will often require significant amounts of experimentation .
I 've never heard that . I have picked end of season tomatoes when they were green and let them ripen and used them for any purpose that I would normally use ripe tomatoes . And I know others who do also . It 's much better than losing them to a frost or to animals . If there is any downside , it would be that they might not be as flavorful as vine-ripened , but that still beats losing them . Also consider that most of what we get in grocery stores come from large farms where they are picked green . Just for the sake of saying it , many stores now also sell vine-ripened or locally grown tomatoes but they do cost more .
You may have been served Bearnaise , which is a common red meat sauce . Bearnaise is based on Hollandaise ( a mother sauce ) , a butter based sauce . Hollandaise is somewhat advanced to make because it is important to keep the temperature right and the ratios correct while making it , but the result is worth the effort .
end question
start question
Is there any other difference between the cakes and the cup cakes besides the size ?
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
Looking at individual recipes , there is a great deal of overlap between Crêpes and Swedish pancakes . If , however , you compare hundreds of recipes , some clear differences emerge . There are also differences between the English interpretations of these recipes and those written in French or Swedish . In the chart above , each cohort consists of at least 100 distinct recipe ratios , except for <URL> Crêpes ratio which is provided for comparison . A taste test of the Swedish recipe Pannkakor with French recipe Crêpes revealed the following differences : Batter : The increased liquid content of the Swedish pancakes made the batter much thinner than the Crêpes batter . Swedish pancakes are made in a pan with a raised lip around the edge . This allows the thin batter to be sloshed around , evenly coating the pan surface without running over the edge . Crêpes , on the other hand , are made on a <URL> . The batter must be thick enough that it will not run over the edge . A T-shaped spreader is used to evenly coat the crêpe maker surface in a perfect disk shape . Frying : Crêpes fried up extremely easily , unsticking themselves from the skillet ( I had neither a pancake pan , nor a crêpe maker available at the time ) making it possible to toss the Crêpes instead of flipping with a spatula . Swedish pancakes , on the other hand , require a bit of fiddling with a spatula to flip them . Crêpes had a slight tendency to curl up at the sides after flipping so they cooked less evenly than the pancakes which stayed perfectly flat after flipping . Flip side of a Crêpe ( French recipe ) Flip side of a Swedish pancake ( Swedish recipe ) I also tested Michael Ruhlman 's Crêpes ratio . These curled up to a much greater extent than French recipe Crêpes after flipping and were , consequently , quite unevenly browned on one side . Flip side of a Ruhlman 's Crêpe Taste and consistency : Both French recipe Crêpes and Swedish recipe pancakes hit caramel and butterscotch notes . In short , they both tasted great . The Crêpe consistency was a little tough together with traditional Swedish accompaniments ( Whipped cream and Strawberry jam ) whereas the Swedish pancakes were light and fluffy ; this worked perfectly with the filling . I tested again with lemon juice and sugar and this time the Crêpes won through , holding up well to the additional liquid while the Swedish pancakes became a bit soggy . Ruhlman 's Crêpe recipe did n't perform nearly as well . The caramel flavour was much less pronounced , they had a dry mouth-feel and they were tougher than French recipe Crêpes . For anyone who wants to form their own opinion , here are the ratios and ingredients I used in the tests : Swedish Pancakes ( based on 200 Swedish recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:3.5:1:0.16 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 79g or 150ml all purpose flour 278g or 278ml milk 80g , 68ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 13g or 13ml butter 1/4 tsp salt Crêpes ( based on 119 French recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:1.97:0.75:0.17 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 116g or 219ml all purpose flour 228g or 228ml milk 86g , 73ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 20g or 20ml unsalted butter 1/4 tsp salt Update : Joe 's comment prompted me to chart the ingredient proportions as a <URL> .
I seem to recall that in Moroccan cities there are often ' neighbourhood ' ovens where you pay a small amount to have your bread baked , because few people have their own ovens . You cut a distinctive design in the loaf so you can tell which is yours when you go back to collect it ; the whole system is extremely ancient . The ovens are usually wood-fired clay ovens , so you 'll get a nice stone-baked result as well .
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
There are several factors that increase price . Some are related to the objective quality of the wine , some indirectly linked , other are rather disconnected from quality ( but not necessarily irrelevant , as we 'll see ) . It 's also worth noting that being of high quality does n't necessarily mean being appealing to the average consumer . Apart from the stuff listed below , mass-market wines tend to be made in a non-challenging , easily accessible style . Lower tannin levels , less acidity and a generous amount of residual sugar ( say 10-30g / l ) makes for easy quaffing but little complexity or elegance . They can be very well-made , but the agriculture may not be very sustainable , and the fruit probably is n't of the highest quality . ( If you visit a winery at harvest when they bring in the bulk wine fruit , the meaning of " quality " becomes rather apparent . ) Wines targeted at connoisseurs , wine snobs and wine geeks ( such as yours truly ) tend have more structure ( tannins , acidity ) and are more often completely dry ( although there are of course high-quality off-dry , semi-sweet , and sweet wines ) . There 's a limit to how much a producer can spend to increase quality , a limit which varies with location ( because of salaries for workers etc ) but around $ 100 per bottle is probably in the right order of magnitude . This does not mean that all wines above this magical limit are equally good , though . A dirt-cheap wine will also have a cost associated to it which will be payed for by someone else , like under-payed harvest workers , the environment around the vineyard , etc. . Below are some factors that have a more or less direct link to wine quality and/or character : Yield per acre : Limiting the vineyard 's yield per acre ( which can be achieved by sparser planting , thinning / <URL> , old vines , etc ) increases the quality of the fruit , but you will produce less wine with more or less the same amount of work , which means you 'll have to adjust the price . Number of harvesting tries : At harvest , you can pick all the fruit of one vineyard at the same time and be done with it . Unfortunately , not all bunches ripen at exactly the same time , so to avoid over - or under-ripe grapes , you can make multiple tries ( French , pronounced " trees " ) over several days and pick each bunch at optimal ripeness . More tries inevitably means more work , and so , price increases . Selection : When the harvest is brought in , you can throw all the fruit into the press , or you can select the best grapes to make your wine ( and make brandy or a <URL> of the discarded grapes , or sell them on to a bulk wine producer ) . Being picky reduces the amount of wine produced , and so , prices increase . Drying : Some wines , like <URL> and <URL> , are made from partially dried grapes , and drying decreases the amount of wine you produce ( apart from being extra work ) which means - more expensive wine . Sparkling : Sparkling wines made with the <URL> - like <URL> and <URL> - need to be disgorged after bottle fermentation , which leads to a certain amount of waste ( a Cava producer I talked to said that around 10 % of the original wine is lost in disgorgement ) . Oak aging : Many wines are <URL> , which greatly affects the character of the wine compared to other types of containers , like concrete or stainless steel vats . ( More oak does n't mean better wine , of course . ) Oak barrels are horribly more expensive than the alternatives ( and European oak is more expensive than American , and they impart different character ) , and so , the more oak you use , the more expensive the wine gets . Aging in general : Most high-quality wine receive a bit of aging before consumption to let all components integrate ; some designations of origin even require aging prior to selling . <URL> Gran Reserva , for example , must be aged at least three years , with at least one of those years being on oak , while vintage <URL> is mandated to rest three years on the <URL> , etc. . Apart from time being money , you also need a suitable storage location ( cool and humid but not too cool and humid , secure but accessible to yourself , etc ) which is far from free . The price increases . Other factors are n't causally linked to higher quality , but tend to be connected : Reputation : If you 're an unproven winemaker you will be able to charge more if you 're operating in a district of high repute than if you 're working in an area where no-one has made quality wine before . Conversely , a well-known , high-quality producer expanding their operations to a somewhat less proven district will likely be able to charge more than their new neighbours . Brand : Marketing can take many forms , such as it advertising , tailoring wines to suit <URL> , and tends to push prices up . Wineries can even try <URL> . You can also be lucky and find some great , undiscovered producer ( do n't tell anyone ! except me , that is ) selling their wines at more-or-less cost price ( which probably still wo n't be dirt cheap , though ) . Land prices : Some spots are better for growing grapes . If you 're in
Coat the chocolate chips in flour ( whichever type of flour goes into your cake ) . Put a few ounces or two of flour and the chocolate chips into a zip-top bag , close tightly and shake . The coated chips will then adhere and tend to " float " in the batter . Subtract the amount flour used to coat the chips from the flour otherwise used in the recipe . You could do this with cocoa powder instead of flour .
Pectin is a polysacharide found in the cell walls of plants . There are two main divisions of pectin used in cooking : high methoxyl ( HM ) and low methoxyl ( LM ) . The high methoxyl is used in most jam and jelly recipes . It requires sugar and acid to gel . When the pectin is dissolved out of the cell walls it is very dilute and picks up a negative charge that prevents the molecules from binding to each other and gelling . Adding sugar isolates the pectin molecules from some of the water while dding the acid removes their charge . Pectin HM is thermally reversible which means it can be set , melted , and set again . Instead of using sugar and acid to encourage gelling , low methoxyl pectin gels in the presence of calcium . It is used in glazes and reduced sugar jams . It is not thermally reversible . Pectin NH is a type of LM pectin that has been modified to be thermally reversible . The more calcium in a gel the less able that gel will be to melt . Pectin NH gels with calcium but unlike other LM pectins it requires less calcium . This would mean that it could still be melted and reshaped . The recipes that I have seen that use pectin NH both have less sugar and require remolding . From what I have seen pectin NH tends to be more expensive . It is typically used in low-sugar pastry fillings and glazes . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
There certainly are differences . Specifically regarding lemon there are differences not only in taste , because the lemon olive oil is flavored using the zest of a lemon , but also in acidity . Lemon juice is very acidic , olive oil is not . There are plenty of times where it is completely inappropriate to add an acid . A better comparison would instead be lemon infused olive oil compared to olive oil and lemon zest . There would still be a difference , but it would be less noticeable . The infused olive oil has had more opportunity to capture the fat soluble flavor compounds in the lemon zest , however the flavor compounds that are n't fat soluble will be forever lost . That is generally the trade-off when it comes to any infused oil . You will get lots of the fat soluble flavor compounds , but you will lose the non-fat soluble flavor compounds . As for difference of use in the olive oil and lemon juice case , yes , definitely . You ca n't always add acids to foods . In the lemon zest case , apart from the slight flavor difference , there 's also a texture difference . Of course , if you want something very smooth , pieces of zest would n't be a good thing . Apart from those though , not really . All of these differences still apply both in uncooked as well as cooked preparations .
The problem is , both Sarge 's and Carmi 's answers are right depending on who is using the word . Some people use the word seasoning to just mean salt , some mean salt and pepper , and some mean " anything you want to use to bring the flavor to the desired point , including salt , pepper , lemon juice , spices , herbs , etc. " If you are dealing with someone in person , it is best to ask . With a cookbook , sometimes you can figure it out from context or from other recipes . Otherwise , you 'll have to make your own best call . In my own recipes , I will generally write " taste and adjust seasoning , adding salt and/or more lemon juice as needed " .
The difference between the two can be seen below ( the post it is from is an <URL> ) : The corn flour is the white , finer ingredient on the right . The first obvious difference is that the texture will differ between the two . The second is that it would have different uses . Both would be effective at displacing gluten-containing flours ( as in , neither would be helpful in gluten formation ) . In terms of substitution , however , corn meal is likelier substituted by something like semolina flour and corn flour is likelier better substituted by quinoa or garbanzo bean flour .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
Mid height for cakes in non-convection ovens , slightly above mid height for thin cakes , top for cookies . In a convection oven it does n't matter because the airflow distributes heat evenly throughout the oven 's volume .
The previously accepted answer contains a good link , but not any information here on Seasoned Advice , so I thought I would write out a few things from my understanding after having developed an abiding interest in Cajun foods over the past decade . Basically , <URL> is a much broader term with a longer history . While it is perhaps inaccurate to say <URL> is a ' subset ' area and culinary style , it is more geographically - and flavor-specific than just saying Creole . The history of people and region identified as Creole ( on the American continents ) goes back a long ways , and Cajun is a more recent phenomenon . Creole can also refer to other peoples and regions other than just in the South/Central parts of North America , though such use in the United States is a distant memory . In the past century , the " Cajun " term has certainly attained an independent status as a self-identified people , region , and flavor -- the last no doubt owing to the flavor potency of their offerings . Which offerings , in my opinion , when consumed , are nearly always exquisitely enjoyable examples of perfection in the experience of food .
Offal is a general term for any parts of the animal 's innards which are not the conventional cuts from the muscle and bone . It would vary by cuisine , but could include liver , kidneys , heart , brains , stomach , or tongue . Those particularly fussy about what they eat might even extend it to things like tail and neck , although most would n't regard these as offal per se . Tripe , on the other hand , refers specifically to the stomach . It 's usually washed , and often bleached , then slow cooked , although again , the preparation varies by region . Common tripe dishes come from the stomachs of cow and sheep , and despite falling out of favour as a cheap alternative to regular meat , it 's still quite popular in some parts of Europe .
I have just looked in the book " Thai Food " ( by David Thompson ) . Both are very similar . The main difference I can see is that there are souring agents in the red curry ( fish sauce and shrimp paste ) . These are absent in the panaeng which has peanuts as a major ingredient in the paste ( and nutmeg ) . The panaeng is also usually made with beef which is simmered in count milk until tender .
If I recall correctly the differences are slight , but significant . Both have a subtle , delicate flavour with an exceptionally light texture . The Victorian is usually regarded as the healthier , lighter of the two , but I believe this is mostly due to the Génoise usually being rendered as a layer cake with a lavish buttercream filling , though if I remember right it can also be used as a base for madeleines and ladyfingers . The Victorian can be baked thin and carefully rolled with cream for Swiss rolls . The main difference is the Victorian slices disorderly and ' crumby ' while the Génoise retains its form neatly . Both are accompanied well by , and are traditionally served with hot beverages namely tea and coffee . The Italian creation is undecidedly the more complex one to prepare . You 're right about separating the egg whites and beating them separately aerating the mixture further , but I 'm not certain if it would make a noticeable difference in case of sponge cakes but I 'd love it if someone could comment on this .
I found a link that will provide the explanation you are looking for : <URL> Here is a direct quote from the site : Masa is dried corn that has been cooked in limewater ( cal ) , soaked overnight , and then ground up while still wet . Sold in this form , it 's called fresh masa , and it makes the lightest , fluffiest tamales . In Mexico , it can be purchased at tortilla factories in two ways : with smooth consistency for making tortillas and , upon request ( if you are lucky ) , with a coarser consistency for making tamales . ( Be careful to differentiate between masa para tamales and masa preparada para tamales ; the latter , available at some tortilla factories and large Mexican groceries , is the coarse-textured masa mixed with lard and flavorings .
Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company ( and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market 's expectations ) , the measurement is 1-gou , slightly more than 180ml , which , by no coincidence , is also the typical measure of a wooden sake , cup , and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size ( approximately 1.8 l ) <URL> It turns out that this amount , 1 gou of dried rice , neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice . In practice , most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day ; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes . There are other measurements that derive from the gou ( or perhaps the other way around ) , such as the koku , which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year . This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push ; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries . It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people . Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water : It 's worth noting that you do n't need perfect precision for the amount of water , as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes . I ca n't remember the exact scientific principle behind it , but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure . Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail . It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan ( though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom ) . ( Some types of rice do prefer more water than others , but within a single type , you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio )
end question
start question
Should I prick sausages during cooking ?
I 'd say no never prick the sausages if you can help it . the fat inside helps to keep them succulent and moist , and if you have a problem with the splitting and are pricking them to release the pressure as was stated by @foodrules , then I 'd say you are cooking them over too high a heat . Lower the heat , or if you are BBQing move them further from the source , then you will get to have unsplit , moist sausages . When pan frying I prefer a very low heat for a long time . This allows a delicious sticky crust to develop on the outside of the sausages . mmm ... If they were meant to be pricked why would they not come pre pricked ?
If you are using a additional containers or surfaces in the oven for baking , you should absolutely pre-heat it with the oven . Use an IR thermometer to measure the actual temperature of the container - a dutch oven or heavy stone will take longer to come up to temperature than the air in the oven will , so the oven will claim to be preheated sooner than it is actually ready . Remember that temperature and heat are two different things - one of the benefits of using a baking stone or dutch oven or other " heavy " thing is that it stores a lot of HEAT . Air at 450F and Cast Iron at 450F contain very different amounts of heat , and it is heat that will bake your bread . You can tell that they have soaked up as much heat as they can when their temperature is close to your oven set-point , which will take a while . The only possible exception to this would be if you are just using a thin sheet metal steam tray to cover your pizza stone to trap steam , since it has so little thermal mass . A thin tray could probably be put over the bread without preheating the tray since it wo n't absorb or store much thermal energy . To prevent burning , choose containers with a good , solid handle , and get quality oven mitts , preferably with long-ish sleeves to protect your forearms .
Do you like your noodles swimming in water ? If not , drain them .
According to <URL> it appears that your notion about it being protein-based is correct . Most of the recipes I 've seen say to skim it ; the above-linked site says that adding a little oil will keep the foam down . I personally would n't do anything with it as an ingredient unless I had a truly massive amount of it to experiment with -- I do n't know enough about the properties to make anything other than wild guesses about how it would work . The only similar material I can think of would be beaten egg whites , but unless you were desperate for a vegan alternative and were already boiling up vats full of chickpeas I 'd just use the eggwhites .
For most oils , you can re-use them several times , if you 're OK with ( or want ) the flavors the oil takes on from the food cooked in it . The thing to watch is the smoke point . That 's when the oil starts sending off whisps of smoke . For coconut oil , that 's 350F . As oil is re-used , that smoke point starts to drop until it 's no longer able to stay hot enough to properly fry food . We 're dealing with an oil that has a relatively low smoke point in the first place at 350F , as opposed to 450F for peanut oil , and proper frying needs to be pretty close to 350F in order to have the moisture in the food hold out the oil from rushing into the food like a sponge . That , unfortunately means that coconut oil is n't a great candidate for re-use .
As long as you complete the salmon 's cooking in the sauce , it 's fine . If you 're not sure when the salmon 's done by your method , I 'd suggest completing its cooking in the microwave as directed by the package and then adding it to the pasta and sauce just before preparing to serve the dish .
Frying the chicken tends to set the muscle fibers by drawing moisture out . An example of this would be taking a thin ( 1cm ) cutlet and frying it until both sides start to turn golden . It will be pretty dry and hard . Pressure cooking it on the other hand tends to soften the muscle fibers without drawing moisture in ( if anything , its putting moisture in ) . So , ideally , you should boil/pressure cook your chicken prior to frying in oil ( though do make sure to drain the chicken first to prevent splatters ! ) . Additionally , you should undercook the chicken slightly in the pressure cooker since you 'll be finishing it in the fryer . If you are broasting the chicken , then you are going about the recipe incorrectly by frying then pressure cooking it . When broasting , you should pressure fry - if that makes sense .
The same logic applies . The smaller the temperature difference between uncooked and cooked , the easier it will be to get an even amount of cooking all the way through . Especially with a fast method of cooking like broiling .
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
Here is a great resource for this : <URL> . In a nutshell , though , there really is no way to reduce nitrate content without exhaustive preparation . We 're talking grinding , pressing out the juice , then heating the juice to produce leafy veggie tofu . Yuck .
The answer depends on where you live , and what type you have brought . In many countries that import chickpeas they heat treat them to kill seed-borne diseases and insects . The heat treatment process makes them more difficult to cook , and soaking times double or triple . Beans from exporters with phytosanitary certificates can be imported without heat treatment ; these are the ones you want to get . I do n't think you can tell which is which by looking at them . At the moment we have some particularly dark , dry , and dead looking beans that soak up beautifully in 8 hours ! Soak non-heat treated beans for 8 to 12 hours , heat treated beans for 24 to 36 hours . Some overly heat treated beans will never fully revive , and you are best to return these to the shop as " faulty " . Soak and cook without salt , unless you are going to mash them . They fall apart more readily if salted . If you are not mashing them , the secret to great chickpea taste is after soaking and cooking in water , is to lightly fry them with a little olive oil until dark spot appear , keep them or the pan moving so none burn . Then add the sauce , or add them to whatever dish you are preparing .
There are different ' camps ' when it comes to seasoning but essentially If you season meat too early before cooking , the salt will draw out the moisture , meaning a less juicy piece of meat , however if you season just before cooking the seasoning will help to impart flavour into the meat . If you seal the meat and then season it , the sealed meat will not release any juice . Hence the two theories .
You should get a carbon steel wok with two short handles ( not one long handle ) . You want the steel to build up a patina of oxidized oils , which rules out stainless steel and aluminum and non-stick . You could conceivably get a cast-iron wok , but those are really heavy . You want the two small handles so you can pick up the wok , but you do n't want long handles that will dump hot oil or food everywhere if you bump them . Unlike a saute pan , you do n't toss the pan , you toss the food . ( Tossing the pan pulls it away from the flame , which is bad when stir-frying ! ) Your best bet is to go to an Asian grocery . You 'll be assured of getting a product at a good price . Should n't cost more than $ 25 , I do n't think . Oh , one other question is what sort of stove you have . If you have an electric stove , ( a ) I 'm sorry , and ( b ) you have to get a flat-bottomed wok . If you have a gas stove , you can either get a flat-bottomed wok or a round-bottomed wok , but the latter only if you get a wok ring that holds the pan just above the flame . You want as much heat going into that pan as you possibly can manage !
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
( 1 ) Taste . When you salt your eggs DOES affect taste because it affects the way your tongue comes into contact with the salt . If you salt your eggs before or during cooking , some of all of the salt dissolves in the water that is in the eggs ( raw eggs , overall , are roughly 75 % water ) and is dispersed over the surface of your eggs while they cook . When you salt your eggs after cooking , crystals of salt remain on the egg and , when these crystals come into contact with your tongue directly , they produce a brighter salty taste . So basically , the way your tongue registers saltiness depends on concentration , not just amount . Think about how differently a pinch of salt tastes directly on the tongue as opposed to the way that same pinch would taste if dissolved in a drop of water . So ... the tongue registers a brighter salt taste when it comes in contact with salt directly . That does n't mean that salting eggs after cooking is better - it means that it affects perception of salt differently . Go with whichever you prefer personally . ( 2 ) Texture . Whenever I have a question about food science , I consult Harold McGee 's book " On Food and Cooking , The Science and Lore of the Kitchen . " He states unequivocally that salt DOES NOT toughen eggs . According to McGee , the only egg preparation that is harmed by the addition of salt is and egg white foam ( whipped egg whites ) . So from the standpoint of texture , salt whenever you feel called to do so . Controlling the heat when you fry an egg is the single more important factor in determining the texture of your cooked eggs .
In general you need to consider the purpose of the ingredient , and what would happen to it during the cooking that it 's missed . For example , there 's no point stirring a spoonful of flour into a sauce after cooking , since the flour needs heat in order to thicken the sauce . In the case of the tomato paste , not much will happen to that particular ingredient during cooking . It may have caramelised a little , depending on the cooking method . It would have infused more deeply into some of the other ingredients . But these are subtle things . Taste your finished product . If you feel it would benefit from an extra boost of tomato flavour , by all means stir in some tomato paste .
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
Tomatoes are mostly water anyway . They 're not going to get above boiling point whether or not you add water ( or at least not by more than a very few degrees even with salt added - less than the effect of altitude ) . On the other hand the browned bits from the bottom of the pan ( often called fond in the US though I 've never heard this in the UK and the usage in France is a bit different ) do give a nice flavour to the sauce so long as they do n't catch . If you do add water , you 'll need to simmer it down anyway , making that the stirring step still happens , just later . But adding some water fairly early can give you some flexibility . A good time to do this is when it 's starting to meet constant stirring but you need to get on with the rest of the meal . A low heat and a heavy pan help too .
I found <URL> in the LA Times with detailed experiments suggesting that soaking beans is unnecessary and it takes away the flavor and texture .
I think that washing pre-washed greens is an issue of emotional security , if you do n't trust the purveyor . As the <URL> : Many pre-cut , bagged , or packaged produce items like lettuce are pre-washed and ready-to-eat . If so , it will be stated on the packaging . If the package indicates that the contents are pre-washed and ready-to-eat , you can use the produce without further washing . It certainly does no harm , but you then have to also dry them for most uses , so it is more work , and kind of redundant : you have paid a premium price to buy the greens already washed . If you are going to wash them yourself , why not buy less expensive produce , and perhaps have more control over what goes into your mix ?
end question
start question
Using noodle cooking water to loosen sauce ?
I always reserve a bit of pasta water to add it to the pan . The reason is simple : if you drain your pasta and add it to the sauce the pasta will suck up all the sauce and become a bit dry . Adding the pasta water ensures that your pasta will remain moist . Also yes , it helps thickening the sauce ( this does not necessarily apply to tomato sauce ) . Now , let 's be clear : you DO NOT add your pasta water to the sauce when you are preparing the sauce . You only add it when you put your pasta in the sauce . It also helps if you do n't drain the pasta , just take it out of the boiling water ( using tongs , ofc ) and put it in your sauce while still on the stove . A quick 30-50 secs stir and that 's it . Hope this helps . PS : 1/2 cup seems like a lot to me . For two portions of pasta I usually add around 3 tablespoons .
<URL> implicitly says that the sauce stays indefinitely technically edible . The expiration date is only for quality purposes . I think the sauce probably does n't have an expiration date but rather a " Best By " or " Best if Used By " date . Storage time shown is for best quality only -- after that , the sauce 's texture , color or flavor may change , but in most cases , it will still be safe to consume if it has been stored properly . If sauce develops an off odor , flavor or appearance , it should be discarded for quality purposes .
Yes there are benefits ! This is one of my most used pieces of kitchen equipments . Here is a list of benefits for a quality rice cooker : Never burns rice No guess measurements for all kinds of rice Scheduled cooking Keep warm settings Uniform cooking When I cook rice on my stove , even at the lowest of heats , I get a thin layer of rice that has overcooked stuck to the bottom of the pot . For the record I have the <URL> . Best thing ever .
How about Ruhlman 's book , <URL> ? The entire work is dedicated to breaking cooking down into ratios , and it includes recipes . I hear the bread recipe is particularly good .
This question was answered to some extent in another <URL> . This answer , which is basically just a link to <URL> , dispels a number of myths about cooking pasta . For instance : Water will return to a boil in the same amount of time regardless of how much is in the pot prior to pasta being added . Pasta wo n't get sticky with smaller amounts of water . It only gets sticky because of reactions in the first few minutes of cooking , and the solution is to stir it . This is necessary even with lots of water . You do not need a lot of water to cook pasta . Water does not need to be boiling to cook pasta . It simply needs to be <URL> . Some really interesting stuff in the article that debunks quite a lot of kitchen lore about cooking pasta . I have tried this at home with great success . So in answer to your specific question : No , you do not need a lot of water , it simply has to cover the pasta . The amount of salt is heavily dependent on the amount of pasta , the amount of water , and your own taste . You need to find a consistent way to cook pasta and then experiment .
If you have a stove : Put a pan on the stove and use low heat to " toast " your cake . If you only have a rice cooker : The rice cooker is only for " wet-cooking " like cooking rice or steaming . I do n't know whether toasting food in the rice cooker breaks the cooker . Therefore I do n't know how to fix the cake then . :(
I think the thing boils down to how much you need to get from the lettuce . If you demand the best of the best performance for your salad , you want to blot it dry with paper towels , so that the texture is best preserved and the appearance is undisturbed . For my purpose , in my kitchen , a salad spinner saves money ( the paper towels ) , time ( my time ) , and allows me to do something more interesting than blotting it dry , and the time saved can be used to better decorate the dishes I love better than the salad . In essence , there is nothing wrong with any method of cooking if you enjoy the result , and it does n't involve health problems . Spinning it dry is fine for me , and if you accept the result , there is little to hesitate using one . Thomas Keller also told us that after vegetables release the flavors in the soup we should discard them , and replace them with fresh cooked vegetables with better colors and better flavor for better presentation . In my kitchen , I am not serving a Michelin 3-star soup to my family , and thus it is fine having those vegetables in the soup for some more fibres in our diet . It is a matter of fine dining , it is not a matter of home kitchen . Insist if you have to , but relax if you actually can .
Adding your pasta to cold water before boiling it may help . You will need to stir more often overall , but the shells wo n't initially stick together as soon as you add them to the water , and then you can stir to prevent the sticking as they become softer . <URL> wrote this : I prefer starting with cold water , because the noodles do n't stick together at all as they go into the pot , and because I do n't notice a difference in flavor once they 're drained and sauced . As Jefromi said , what happens is that the starch on the noodles gets rinsed off in the water before it can gelatinize and stick to everything . So you will have to stir even before the water gets warm .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
The salt adds flavor , but it also helps reduce the gelation of the starch in the pasta . The starch in food is the form of microscopic grains . When these grains come into contact with water , they will trap some of it ( think cornstarch in cold water ) , but when the water is hot they swell up like balloons and merge with each other , and you have starch gelation . Another thing you may want to add to the pasta water is some acid ( lemon or cream of tartar ) . Tap water in most cities is made alkaline , which increases the starch loss from the pasta to the water , making the pasta stickier .
I recently asked this question to my dietitian friend at work , and she advised fruit/herbs last about 3 to 5 days in water in the fridge before becoming soft and mushy . If your mint leaf still looks nice and pretty , you are most likely OK . She also recommended a website to me : www.infusedwaters.com/faq for recipes and advise .
The cut is important for both techniques . For sauteing , you need a lean cut - fillet , sirloin , or good rump steak . These should be cooked quickly over a high heat . As Cerberus has suggested , if you are cooking something else in the same pan , take the beef out and re-add it later ; do n't boil it in a sauce . Stewing beef needs some fat and cartilage which breaks down during slow cooking and tenderises the meat . Packs of such beef are usually sold as such in the supermarket ; look for a pack with plenty of fat marbled through the meat ; ' Lean stewing steak ' is as useful as a waterproof teabag ! My personal favourite stewing beef is brisket , as it breaks down into nice tender fibres after 2-3 hours cooking . Contrary to popular belief , browning meat does nothing to ' seal in the juices ' . It simply provides a bit of extra colour and flavour by ' caramelising ' the outside a little . So if you have a strong flavoured stew ( like a chilli , for example ) , just throw the chunks of meat straight into the sauce .
Adding a starchy substance such as rice or noodles to boiling water increases the surface tension of the water . When it 's just plain water boiling the surface tension of the water ca n't hold back the force of the steam rising and the bubbles burst . Starches increase this surface tension making the bubbles more elastic/pliable ( essentially creating a foam ) , thus requiring more force for them to burst . This makes the bubbles last longer which allows them to build up and eventually boil over . It 's more likely to occur with anything starchy like rice and pasta . A lower temperature should help to control a boil over as it will allow the water to cool somewhat and slow the boil . I 'd assume that , from your quoted text , that if you use less water you 're still imparting the same amount of starch making a thicker solution . More water would dilute this and bring it closer to normal water . In my own experience , small amounts of water allow lots of bubbles to form but nothing really boils over , it just splatters a bit . But reducing temperature and tilting the lid to let some air in has helped me in the past .
Technically , your idea seems sound . But I would n't do it . What you are proposing to do in your electric kettle is very close to the standards for flash pasteurization . According to wikipedia , the standard procedure for flash pasteurization is to heat and circulate the liquid at 71.5 ° C ( 160 ° F ) to 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) , for about 15 to 30 seconds , which results in a five log ( 99.999 % ) or greater reduction in bacteria . Other journal articles seem to indicate that some protozoa like cryptosporidium are killed by flash pasteurization , but others , like giardia , might survive in small numbers . I suspect the guideline for boiling water in issues of safety and in recipes is used because steam and bubbles are such convenient guarantors of temperature . Psychologically , though , this makes me a little nervous . Personally , I would boil the water - if you have time for tea , you have time to boil water . It is possible , though , that you are a more adventurous tea drinker than I am .
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
Nigel Slater 's book <URL> might be useful to you . He devotes each chapter to a separate vegetable , and for each one he includes : Specific recipes Discussion of different varieties Comments on different cooking techniques Comments on effective seasonings and pairings There 's also some discussion of his attempts ( successful or not ) at growing different vegetables in his own garden .
This works by increasing the porousness of the meat inside the bag . When a vacuum is created , there is a natural tendency for matter to occupy that space . It does this by increasing the amount of space between particles , otherwise known as density . This increases the size of the microscopic holes in the meat , and thus effectively increases the surface area in which the marinade can contact the meat . More surface area means by marinade sticks to your food . If you 'd like to see the effects of vacuum pressure on foods greatly exagerrated , <URL> . :-)
First , the alcohol does n't burn off . We had a table about the percentage of alcohol left after a period of cooking , and especially in something cooked as short as a pasta sauce , there is a substantial amount left . For the longer discussion , see <URL> . Second , alcohol is a great solvent . It can leach aromatics from spices and herbs which would n't come out with water only . There is a good reason why extracts and essences are made with alcohol . While a really good extract needs a long time , even the short cooking time will be enough for alcohol to make a difference . Third , it can stabilize your sauce . Cream is an emulsion of fat in water , and not terribly stable , especially if some acid is present . Alcohol dissolves both fat and water , so it will stop the cream from eventual separating . Fourth , maybe you happened to find a not so great recipe . Vodka will help with the first three points , but it is seldom a good choice for cooking , because there is almost always another alcohol which will accomplish the same and introduce a good flavor which harmonizes with the remaining ingredients . For pasta sauces this tends to be a good brandy , but it depends on what else you have in the sauce . And because even vodka will leave a taste of alcohol in the end , it is hard to argue that it can be used where the taste should be kept unchanged .
The toxin in kidney beans is destroyed by boiling for around ten minutes , which no doubt holds true for any toxin in the water as well . So there should be no problem with using the soaking water to cook the beans , provided you cook them properly .
The primary difference between a dumpling and a noodle , besides shape , is leavening . Dumplings usually have either egg or baking powder to make them lighter . There 's considerable bleedover in terminology here . It 's reminiscent of the difficulty of defining " chowder " . You 're always finding a counterexample . I would n't be surprised if someone came up with something called gnocchi , gnochs , gnocchetti , that has no leavening . I can think of two myself . Gnocchetti alla romana are semolina " dumplings " sometimes leavened with egg , particularly when they contain spinach , but more often not . Gnocchetti sardi are dry pasta shapes that kind of look like thin potato gnocchi .
end question
start question
Gluten-free alternatives to beurre manie/roux for thickening sauce ?
Oh , have I got the answer for you . Xanthan gum . Here is an <URL> by two of my favorite bloggers on how to get started using it . Xanthan gum is easy to find at health food stores because gluten-free bakers use it extensively .
I 'm a coeliac from Australia and so my tips come from my experience here , but they should hopefully be useful regardless . The first thing I suggest is joining your local society which can be invaluable in terms of support , information and even training . The training covers for example how to read ingredient lists to determine whether something is gluten free by ingredient . As a general rule you need to avoid products containing [ wheat , barley , rye , malts and triticale ] [ 1 ] . There are a few exceptions such as glucose syrup , caramel colour and dextrose derived from wheat where the ingredients are so highly processed that they contain no detectable [ gluten ] [ 2 ] . Cross contamination and hidden sources of gluten can make it hard to ensure a gluten free diet . In my experience the hardest replacements are the bread based ones . They generally do not come close to the texture and taste of traditional breads . Baking your own bread may be the best option using gluten free bread mixes . Eating out can become a bit of chore because many restaurants use gluten containing products such as sauces and fillers . I recommend contacting the restaurant beforehand . The following products are some of the better gluten free alternatives I 've found ( could n't post links because I do n't have enough rep ) : Zehnder Bread San Remo Pasta BuonTempo Pasta Schar Products Neumarkter Lammsbräu beer References : [ 1 ] <URL> [ 2 ] <URL>
The simplest reason is texture . The point of cold soba noodles is to taste them at the ideal texture for soba . In a party situation , I 've served cold soba with pre-mixed sauce , and there 's a variant called wanko-soba in some parts of Japan ( particularly Iwate prefecture ) that is often served premixed in small bowls , but unfortunately , this results in the noodles softening fairly quickly . They 'll never be as good as they are when you dip a few strands at a time as you eat them . In fact , hot soba noodles deteriorate in texture as well , but this can be partially mitigated simply by slightly undercooking the noodles , since they will continue to cook in the broth . Since soba is generally a quick lunch in Japan , you 'll notice the quality decline in a hot noodle dish , but you 'll probably eat fast enough to avoid terribly soggy noodles ( unless you 're one of my toddlers , but even they can plow through a bowl of soba faster than they will almost any other food ) . Cold noodles will get soggier , but they will not " cook " , so undercooked noodles are n't practical in that case .
Based on your description , it looks like you 've made the common error of assuming that equal volume is equal weight . Butter is more dense than flour so the same volume does not equal the same weight ... you must convert the 1/4 cup for each product using a trustworthy site . Here 's one that <URL> and includes both butter and flour . As you can see , 1/4 cup of butter is 57 grams . If you look at the next chart , you see the conversion for flour and you can see that 1/4 cup of flour is only 32 grams ! This means that , if you added 60 grams of each , you 've got twice as much flour ( the thickening agent ) than the recipe calls for ... so of course it 's going to be way too thick . I recommend you start over and be more careful with your conversions . As a note , my standard recipe for Mac and Cheese uses 4 tbsp each of flour and butter ( generally equivalent to 1/4 cup ) while it only calls for two cups of milk rather than three , so I usually have a much thicker white sauce than yours will be and I find it quite enjoyable . The <URL> ( an iconic American cookbook ) recipe calls for the same percentages for their white sauce - 2:2 tbsp of butter/flour with 1 cup of milk . To answer your questions in the comments , pure butter ( rather than spreadable butter/margarine or butter blends ) in the US is usually sold in one pound boxes containing four sticks per box . Each stick is 1/4 pound of butter which is equivalent to 1/2 cup . Each stick is wrapped in waxed paper and has tick marks to show each tablespoon of butter for a total of eight tablespoons . <URL> Occasionally the paper is n't perfectly aligned but it 's usually a simple matter to adjust your cut position to allow for the offset . So , a cup of butter is two sticks , a 1/4 cup of butter is a half stick . and a tablespoon is 1/8th of a stick . Your second question I think comes from a misunderstanding of how thick the white sauce is when completed correctly . With the proper percentages of flour and butter ( and using two cups of milk ) , the final consistency you get is somewhere between thick cream-based soup and thin hummus . Adding the cheese usually does n't effect the thickness because the cheese melts and is about the same consistency as the white sauce . I also like adding softer cheeses that melt well like goat cheese for both flavor and textural reasons . Once baked , the final outcome will be fairly solid and casserole-like . You should be able to cut it with a knife and expect it to hold its shape to a good degree , like this : <URL> This recipe will not make the creamy-style macaroni and cheese ( an example is shown below . That is a different process and is generally not baked . <URL> So that you can see the differences in the recipes of baked and creamy styles I 'll link you to a couple " creamy-style " mac and cheese recipes from other sources . This is a <URL> from Whole Foods Market , an American grocery chain and here 's a <URL> recipe from Serious Eats .
To summarize the <URL> and provide a framework for answering : ' Gluten is responsible for elasticity of dough , which is perceived as chewiness ' , ' The " rising " in baked goods is essentially just stretching of the gluten network ' , ' Gluten is also exceptionally good at both absorbing and retaining moisture ' Dough 's rising is catalyzed by the yeast eating sugar and giving off gas , the gas becomes suspended in the gluten network which has body from absorbed moisture and is restrained and stregthened by the salt . The end . In the absence of gluten , there is no network for the gas to lift . However , when you add xanthum or guar gum , their qualities as hydrocolloids <URL> . <URL> , gelatin also produces flex and supports a smoother texture ( common complaints about gluten-free breads refer to their grainy texture ) . <URL> from the gluten free dough you 'll get a sopping wet mess that does nothing ; using flax and chia seed will pull it back into shape . Both seeds , when milled will gel andprovide the meringue-type ( though not as effective or durable ) effect . <URL> , hence it 's addition to the King Arthur 's gluten free flour mix . ' When baking without gluten , you will have to be very precise about all of your measurements ' , as gluten is more forgiving due to its slow-acting nature Yep . In gluten-free baking one must substitute precision for not precision . Over kneading can be fatal especially in recipes with flax and chia . ' Its coagulation action is actually very similar to that of egg whites ... gluten is basically doing the same thing inside of whatever you 're baking ' Gluten allows you to replicates the function of eggs in some use cases . Flax and chia eggs as well as Ener-G egg replacer are common vegan replacements to eggs , but as this question is simply about gluten-free baking the answer is to just use an egg ; some recipes call for one , some do n't . However , there is no likely use case where the functionality of an egg being replicated by gluten would preclude using an egg . ' Finally , it provides nutritive protein when eaten . Wheat gluten is about 75 % protein ' : Yep . Get protein somewhere else . There are 2 grams of protein in a slice of white bread , have an ounce of black beans . ' In short : Gluten does a lot of things . Keep in mind when doing gluten-free baking that a lot of the substitutes only replicate one or two of the effects . ' : The combination of multiple agents is generally necessary to provide the same functions . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the bread flour alone contains a super-fine flour , potato starch and tapioca starch . The recipe calls for xanthum gum and an egg in addition to the tapioca and potato starches . There you already have four ingredients doing the work of the gluten .
Yes , and it is very easy . I do it all the time . You only need a very simple calculation . You do n't even have to be precise . If you do want precision , you will have to find out 1 ) how much of your flour protein is gluten , 2 ) how much of your " vital wheat gluten " is gluten , and 3 ) how much gluten content you need for your recipe . Then use a simple rule-of-three calculation to get the amount needed to add . I usually do n't bother , because 1 ) and 2 ) is information which is very hard to find , and due to the large difference in gluten weight and complete weight , imprecision from not using true proportions is minimal . What I do is : Look up the protein content of your flour ( usually printed on the package ) , for example 9.6 grams per 100 grams Look up the gluten content needed for your bread recipe . If it is not specified , 12.5 % is usual for bread flour . Add the difference in vital wheat gluten . In the example above , add 2.9 g of vital wheat gluten per 100 g of flour . This does n't produce exactly 12.5 % gluten content , but I think that it is within the tolerance of most recipes ; indeed , not all commercial flours are exactly 12.5 % , they vary with brand and season . I add the powder to the flour and mix it well before making the bread . If I am using a preferment , I add all the gluten to the preferment and make the non-fermenting part with AP flour only , so my gluten can benefit from longer autolysis . I have no direct comparison with " true " bread flour , as I have never used it . But my breads requiring bread flour turn out good for my standards . There is no problem with bad distribution , the dough turns out very smooth and evenly elastic . There is a pronounced difference to using AP flour only .
It 's not quite as effective as xanthan gum but I find arrowroot flour works wonders . You can also try locust bean gum or psyllium husk ( soak it in water before mixing so that it can dissolve ) Those are more starchey than the gums and are meant to be mixed with amaranth , rice , quinoa , or other more coarse flours it gives you that same " slimey " start that hold the bubbles as the bread cooks . That 's generally gone by the time it 's cooked . When you 're using guar gum , try to keep the quantity down to about 1 % by weight of the dry ingredients . Also give it time to fully hydrate before adding the rest of the ingredients . I normally mix mine in dry with the flour and then add milk or water to get things wet and then leave it for a couple minutes before continuing . If the gum ( or even the arrowroot flour ) is properly hydrated it will be more effective in baking . Plus you can use less liquid overall which is good because it 's easy to overdo the liquid in GF bread .
Fresh herbs should , generally , be added closer to the end of a recipe . Dried herbs should be added fairly early on during the cooking process so that they have time to " develop " and more fully release their flavors . Fresh herbs and spices , however , will generally have more subtle flavors , and they are usually best used for seasoning at the very end of the recipe , rather than actual cooking . You can check out more details about how to use different kinds of spices in <URL> . For your specific case , I would say to definitely add the basil in at the end -- maybe five or ten minutes before the sauce is finished , as you said . It may even be a good idea to remove the pot from your heat source after you have added the basil so that the herbs can infuse their flavor without actually cooking into the sauce . You have to be careful not to cook too much of the flavor out with fresh herbs . If they simmer too long with the rest of the dish the subtle flavors can be easily overpowered by other ingredients .
Do n't put the shrimp etc in the sauce in the first place and cook it separately , that way you do n't have to take it out . Then just top your pasta with it and if say you are cooking meatballs and want a little sauce on them mix a little sauce in with your meatballs and then put them on top . If you want that mixed in with the pasta look then do the same thing I said above and mix the pasta in your individual serving bowls or plates if you are using one after you have dressed your pasta . Your just not going to get an even distribution with random variables , all you can do is pick and count if you want everything evens .
Your typical Tamari is , to my understanding , going to be closer to dark than light soy sauce . So you 'd want light as a second soy sauce . Inside Japan , there are five kinds of soy sauce : Koikuchi , which is your most typical soy sauce Usukuchi , which is lighter because it has fermented rice in it Tamari , which has more soy than wheat and thus is a bit darker Shiro , which has more wheat than soy and thus is a bit lighter Saishikomi , which is " twice-brewed " and thus twice as dark In China , you have two : regular " light " soy sauce , and " dark " , which is the light stuff processed further and aged . Therefore , " sashikomi " is the Japanese equivalent to dark soy sauce , if you want to stick with Japanese classifications . If your recipes are aimed at english-speaking audiences , however , the terms are likely to be used a lot looser and less precisely than in Japan or China . Kikkoman , which is the biggest name brand I 've seen in the US , brews a regular , a Tamari , and a gluten-free ( Tamari can have some gluten in it ) . Therefore , I would normally assume that to an American chef , " dark soy sauce " is Tamari . " Light soy sauce " might mean the low-sodium stuff , or it might mean Shiro or Usukuchi . Your basic unqualified " soy sauce " is Koikuchi .
Roux Method The advantages of the roux method : It can be prepared in advance The raw flour taste is cooked out when the roux is prepared , so the sauce is ready as soon as it is thickened ; this also makes it easier to add more roux to adjust the thickness of the sauce . It actually requires less supervision . You are actually being overly fussy with your roux based sauce . You could add all of the milk at once , although starting with one smaller batch just to dissolve the roux is a good idea . The butter coats the flour particles , making lumping quite unlikely Can be browned for additional flavor at the cost of thickening power It also adds oil or butter to the recipe , which may or may not be an advantage . Slurry Method The advantages of the slurry method ( which is what the second method is , although it is more typically done with water or stock than milk are ) : It is fast and convenient , if you do n't have roux prepared ahead No oil or butter is required , so it does n't have to be accounted for in the recipe . Disadvantages : It is easier to get lumping if you do n't thoroughly whisk the slurry before heating It must be brought to the boil for at least a couple of minutes to eliminate the raw flour taste , and harder to adjust thickness . Harder to prepare ahead Conclusion Use whichever you are comfortable with . For fine sauces , roux based may be superior ( and certainly more buttery ) , but you can have excellent outcomes with a slurry . For casual cooking , I tend to use a slurry , saving roux for more formal dinners and fancier dishes like Thanksgiving gravy .
Milk wo n't help you - it 's mostly water , and gluten develops from flour ( more accurately , specific proteins in flour ) and water . The way to reduce gluten development is to incorporate more fat into the batter . Lipids are hydrophobic and will prevent further hydration of the glutenin . Using a lower-protein flour will also help . If you 're not already using cake flour , the reason it 's called cake flour is because of the lower protein content . That being said , have you actually tried leaving the batter coarse ? Just because the batter is lumpy does not mean that the cake will have big lumps . The entire mixture is wet , so unless you leave huge lumps of dry flour in the batter , you wo n't end up with a lumpy cake . There 's a difference between " do n't overmix " and " do n't mix " - you 're supposed to mix enough to incorporate , just do n't try homogenize it .
According to the <URL> Domino 's uses a blend of Mozzarella , American , Cheddar , Feta , Parmesan , and Provolone Cheeses . Somebody , apparently , with similar concerns asked Domino 's and <URL> : excerpt from letter , emphasis added : Domino 's Pizza Diced Cheese for Pizza is a specially produced cheese made exclusively for our use . It is a natural dairy product , produced from cultured , pasteurized milk , rennet ; and salts of calcium and/or sodium . The type of rennet used in the production of this cheese is restricted to a microbial-based rennet or a genetically-engineered rennet . Animal derived rennets will not be allowed . As far as the other cheeses ( Cheddar , Parmesan , Provolone , etc. ) , Domino 's does not specify the source of rennet used in these products . They may or may not contain animal rennet . This depends on the supplier 's current source and is always subject to change without notification to Domino 's Pizza .
You have several options for the crust . It is possible to purchase mixes that will get you started . There are also several recipes available . A good resource for all your gluten-free baking is <URL> , and you can find a recipe there . Another great option is former pastry chef <URL> at Tartlette . <URL> has compiled a list of gluten-free baking recipes which may also provide you good jumping off points . You can make a dairy free crust by replacing butter with lard or vegetable shortening . Margarine is likely not be dairy free . Lard will provide a texture and taste that is better than an all shortening crust , but shortening is easier to find in stores . If the dairy free requirement is a requirement to avoid casein , you will have to do some experimentation on your own to find an appropriate egg replacement , as gluten free crusts appear to require eggs to hold together . Options for egg replacers can be found <URL> and <URL> . Once you have assembled a crust recipe from these tips , if you have questions about it or are struggling you can ask a follow-on question here about how to improve the crust and the community can provide specific help on a provided recipe . In general it appears that the gluten free crusts available are actually similar to work with versus a regular pie crust , something that is not always the case in gluten free baking . As usual you want to do everything cold and refrigerate your dough over night . Pie dough of all forms is easiest to roll when you place it between two floured sheets of parchment paper . Remove the top piece of parchment paper , flip the bottom piece with crust on it ( hold it all together , because your crust should n't be sticking ) into the pie plate or onto your pie , and remove the top piece . Apple pie is sometimes thickened with flour , and obviously you do not want to do this when cooking gluten-free . The absolute best pie thickener is actually not flour , so you are set here . In taste tests the editors of Cooks Illustrated determined that instant tapioca , a gluten-free product , is the best pie thickener . Make sure , however , not to use more than 2 tablespoons or your pie may be gummy . Since apple slices contain pectin , you should n't need more than 2 tablespoons for your pie to set up . Sugar , apples , and the usual apple pie spices ( if you choose to spice your pie - with good apples you can actually make an amazing pie with simply sugar , instant tapioca , and apples ) should all be gluten free and dairy free , with the usual caveat that in gluten-free cooking and baking you want to make sure that there has been no gluten added to anything by carefully reading labels .
Are there different qualities in prepared Hoisin sauces ? Think of it like barbecue sauce or chili powder : every company has their own recipe , and it 's always hard to know the precise justification for a specific price . The high price on one may be part of their premium brand image , and have nothing to do with the quality of the ingredients . Ultimately , you just have to try a few brands and decide which flavor appeals to you , and whether you find the price reasonable . If so , would I be better served by making my own ? As far as I can tell , hoisin sauce does not need to be fermented , so it 's going to be much easier to make authentic hoisin sauce at home than something like soy sauce or Worcestershire sauce . It 's more like making your own barbecue sauce . A few different websites have minor variations on this recipe : <URL> Is it worth the effort ? That 's a matter of personal opinion . It 's probably hard to justify on purely economic terms ; do you really use more than a few cents worth of hoisin sauce in any given meal , and are the ingredients that much cheaper than the product itself ? But of course , there are other reasons to cook than just to save money . I think you 've just inspired me to try making my own hoisin sauce :) If I make my own , how long will it keep for ? Each of those ingredients can last months on its own , often without any refrigeration , and together would create a highly acidic and antimicrobial environment . The worst that might happen to homemade hoisin sauce in several months of refrigerated storage is it might separate a bit and have to be remixed .
Judging from those Wikipedia articles : Clarified butter is rendered butter , which means that the solids are removed . Beurre noisette is browned butter , which contains the solids . Ghee is slightly-browned ( it should have a golden color ) butter that is rendered . So you melt the butter till it 's golden . Then you remove the solids by pouring the top layer into a container . So you have a combination ( if you like ) of clarified and browned butter .
In a cooking instruction , " low heat " does n't refer to the temperature the sauce reaches , but the speed at which you heat it up . Many stove rings ( hobs ) are marked min-2-3-4-med-6-7-8-max . On that scale , a low heat would be 2 or 3 . Very low heat would be min or 2 . Left on the stove long enough , even at min , your sauce will boil . The key about using low heat is that it probably wo n't boil in the amount of time you need to melt the cheese , and that 's good . I make cheese sauce regularly ( did so tonight ) and I start at med to melt the butter , turn it down while the roux cooks , add milk , once it 's pretty thick I turn it down even further , or just turn it off since an electric element will hold heat for a while , then stir in the cheese . If it ever happened that my cheese was n't melting I guess I would turn the heat back up a bit , but that has n't happened to me .
Unless there was sugar in your cream , there 's nothing particularly sweet about this combination . Did you salt the pasta water to roughly seawater saltiness ? If not , did you adjust salt before serving ? If your pasta water was under-salted , that would explain the sweetness , since the only significant source of salt otherwise was the parmesan . Heavy cream is equivalent to 36-40 % whipping cream . In the event that your cream was pre-sweetened , there 's not much you could do except add salt and hope the sugar does n't overwhelm . It 's a fairly common technique to add sugar to a salty dish to make it taste richer , or salt to a sweet dish for a similar purpose . But it would n't work very well if the cream was very sweet . Since I 've never seen sweetened whipped cream except in aerosol dispensers , I ca n't say for sure .
Wheat and ( other grains ) contains the two protein classes <URL> and <URL> , which together can form the composite protein <URL> . This process requires water and is influenced by a ) the amount of water available and b ) the mechanical process of kneading . Thus a strong gluten network ( as desired in bread baking ) is acchieved by either dilligent kneading wet flour for a certain time ( - > <URL> ) or a higher hydration ( = wetter ) dough and longer resting times , aided by the - > <URL> technique . On the other side of the spectrum are flaky and crumbly goods like shortbread , pie crust and bisquits - here you try to avoid excess gluten formation . There are two ways to do this , usually employed both : Adding fat to the dry ingredients before adding any liquid . The fat ( butter , oil , lard ... ) " protects " the flour from " getting wet " once liquid is added , thus inhibiting gluten formation . Using only a limited amount of liquid and no kneading and gentle handling of the dough after the addition . So to answer your question : There is only very little water in your butter which could trigger the development of gluten . Therefore you can " rub " your butter/shortening / ... in without much influence on gluten formation . Once you add liquid ( egg , ice water , milk , depending in your recipe ) , you need to be careful .
I grew up with a Vietnamese mother that used to put fish sauce in nearly everything . While I ca n't exactly recommend all of her uses ( she once used it in a texas beef chili -- was not good ) , there are a few techniques that are good to know . A common method to create a savory sauce is to use fish sauce with sugar at a 2:1 ratio . For example , you can make <URL> by sauteeing fried tofu with diced tomatoes and adding 2tbsp of fish sauce to 1tbsp of sugar . This ratio can also be used in stir-fries . I would make sure to turn on your air vents when doing this -- the smell of fish sauce hitting a hot pan is ... different than what most people are used to . It works as a savory salt alternative in a lot of dishes . I use it to season fried rice instead of using salt or soy sauce . It generally is a good idea to add this during the cooking process , so the liquid can reduce and meld with the food . It can also be used to quick brine ground pork for savory asian dishes . I 'd add somewhere in the vicinity of a tbsp per pound of ground pork . I use this technique when making Thai <URL> . There are probably other marinating/brining applications , but I do n't have much personal experience with that . You can also use fish sauce to create a wide variety of dipping sauces -- in general it is paired with something sweet ( sugar or rice vinegar ) to help balance out the saltiness . It is also commonly watered down ( <URL> ) in vietnamese dipping sauces to keep it from being too overpowering . On a personal note , my favorite use is straight up on crispy fried eggs ( slightly runny yolk ) over white rice . It is n't for everyone , but it 's something I 've been making and enjoying for years .
end question
start question
Tricks to preserve chips ( french fries ) ?
<URL> by the guys over at <URL> ( and also a <URL> ) with almost everything you 'd ever want to know about chips . That first recipe is supposedly good even after they 've cooled off : Our standard fries are good even when cold . Another option is to cook a lot of chips but stop after their first frying and freeze them ; when you want to eat them , simply put the frozen chips into the fryer for the second frying . This also has added benefits : Freezing acts like partial dehydration . When the frozen fries are finished , they liberate water freely , leading to rapid dehydration and good crust formation with a porous interior . Pre-frozen fries are crunchier than fresh and stay crisper longer after they are fried , but they tend toward hollow fry .
If you let it sit in the sauce overnight then it 's no longer a sauce , it 's a marinade . That 's fine , but marinating is something you generally do with tough , cheap , and/or dry cuts of meat such as chicken breasts or top rounds ( beef ) . For a full chicken , especially the wings , drumsticks and thighs , a marinade is entirely unnecessary and in my humble opinion simply dilutes the deliciously moist interior and often makes the whole thing soggy and depressing . Generally the goal ( or at least my goal and that of the majority of restaurants I 've been to ) for chicken wings or even a traditional roasted whole chicken is a nice crispy , golden-brown , well-seasoned skin with juicy meat on the inside . You ca n't get that if you douse it in sauce before grilling it . The water in the sauce will inhibit the Maillard reaction that causes browning ( and crisping ) , and as Mike points out , the sauce may even burn . In fact , it almost certainly will burn ; most store-bought BBQ sauces only last a few minutes exposed to direct heat . With that in mind , the best time to sauce a grilled ( BBQ ) chicken is after it 's cooked , or more precisely , when it 's nearly cooked . Go ahead and season it liberally and coat it in butter or oil beforehand , but wait until it is no more than a few minutes away from being done before you sauce it . You 're not trying to cook the sauce , and it takes no more than a few minutes to get the sauce to bind to the skin - i.e. a few coats with 30-60 seconds each to reduce and form a sort of glaze . This is true for almost any meat and any cooking method as long as you 're not marinating - BBQ chicken , fried or convection-baked wings , smoked or oven-braised ribs - you almost always want to sauce it right at the end . If your technique and ingredients are good then the meat , not the sauce , should be your main attraction .
Typically , vegetables will lose their colour if they are over-cooked , so it 's probably worthwhile cooking them for a shorter period of time . Usually steaming is a great way to preserve the nutrients and colour of vegetables , as is stir-frying rapidly . Different kinds of vegetables contain various pigments in their skins . Green vegetables contain chlorophyll ; red and white vegetables contain flavonoids ; orange vegetables contain keratin . Each of these pigments requires a different approach when cooking to preserve colour . When cooking green vegetables , never add an acid , such as lemon juice or vinegar , as this will cause the vegetables to discolour quickly . Always cook green vegetables rapidly and preferably without a lid . With red and white vegetables , which contain flavonoids , the converse to green vegetables is true . Adding an acid during the cooking process will retain and even restore the colour . For red vegetables use a red or white wind vinegar . For white vegetables use a slice of lemon . Orange vegetables , which contain keratin and are generally fairly robust , for the most part can be cooked with or without the addition of an acid , and they will usually retain their colour . Another way to preserve the colour is to blanch the vegetable in boiling water for a minute or so , then plunge them into ice water . Doing this stops the cooking process instantly . Using the method is useful if you intend to freeze vegetables .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
YES ! If food is quickly heated and kept above 140F/60C , microorganisms ca n't grow in the food . Professional kitchens use steam tables to keep food warm at this temperature throughout a day 's service . If the product is cooled quickly ( generally using an ice bath ) , then it can be used for more than one day . Another approach is often used for stocks and soups : heat them to 165F/75C daily or every two days , to kill microorganisms , then cool them quickly with an ice bath to under 40F/5C . This can be done 2-3 times to extend the fridge life of the product . The most important part of both approaches is to use a food thermometer to verify that food is fully heated/cooled , and Another trick to extend the fridge life of food is to immediately transfer it from a still-hot pot to a cool container , and then leave the top of the container open to allow steam to escape . This greatly reduces cooling time ; even in a refrigerator , a sealed container may take over an hour to cool down to a safe temperature .
Fresh herbs should , generally , be added closer to the end of a recipe . Dried herbs should be added fairly early on during the cooking process so that they have time to " develop " and more fully release their flavors . Fresh herbs and spices , however , will generally have more subtle flavors , and they are usually best used for seasoning at the very end of the recipe , rather than actual cooking . You can check out more details about how to use different kinds of spices in <URL> . For your specific case , I would say to definitely add the basil in at the end -- maybe five or ten minutes before the sauce is finished , as you said . It may even be a good idea to remove the pot from your heat source after you have added the basil so that the herbs can infuse their flavor without actually cooking into the sauce . You have to be careful not to cook too much of the flavor out with fresh herbs . If they simmer too long with the rest of the dish the subtle flavors can be easily overpowered by other ingredients .
Jams and jellies most commonly use pectin , not gelatin . But in either case , the purpose is to make it set , i.e. gel up . It 's just about texture , not preservation . Without that you 'd have a thick liquid , not really much good for spreading on things . The main ingredient that contributes to safety of canned jam and jelly are is acid : the natural acidity of the fruit you 're canning , plus possibly added citric acid or lemon juice . They create an inhospitable environment for whatever survives the canning process . The sugar content does help too , but the pH is the primary concern . The canning process is also critical . Primarily , it creates a vacuum seal on the jar so that no recontamination happens . Without that , pretty much anything would eventually grow mold . Additionally , pressure canning allows the contents to reach an even higher temperature , killing even more bacteria , allowing for canning of foods without high acid and sugar level like vegetables . All of this is pretty hard to verify on your own , and the consequences of improperly canned food can be pretty bad ( severe food poisoning , possible death ) , hence the usual recommendation to only use recipes from trusted sources . If on the other hand you 're talking about small batches of jam or jelly that you just keep in the refrigerator without ever canning them , you do n't exactly have preserved food . It 'll last a while , much longer than raw fruit , but there 's a good chance it 'll eventually mold . It 's still the acid and sugar that make the difference , though . I 'm do n't think air flow is really an issue here as you suggest . If you did n't use gelatin or pectin , that thick liquid would still only have air contact on the surface , which is already pretty much the best possible scenario .
Coat the chocolate chips in flour ( whichever type of flour goes into your cake ) . Put a few ounces or two of flour and the chocolate chips into a zip-top bag , close tightly and shake . The coated chips will then adhere and tend to " float " in the batter . Subtract the amount flour used to coat the chips from the flour otherwise used in the recipe . You could do this with cocoa powder instead of flour .
Yes there is a significant difference between the two . I would put them at pretty close to opposite ends of the coffee spectrum . French Press : Generally made with a coarse grind , longer steeping time . Result is a weaker ( less concentrated ) more typical American style coffee . This will likely be consumed in the same way as a typical filtered , drip coffee would . Moka Pot : Made with a much finer grind . And while many will argue it 's not true espresso . It is much closer to being an espresso . I do n't really care what you call it , but it 'll be a much stronger more robust coffee . The same amount of coffee will be extracted to a smaller quantity of water . This would be consumed in the same way as an espresso would . You can water it down to make an Americano , etc. . .
The lower ( first ) temperature actually cooks the potato so that it is tender , the hotter temperature ( second ) is what gives the crispy golden coating . If you just did the lower temperature , your fries might be too soft . If you just did the hotter temperature they would be too too tough .
Unpeeled onions and garlic help thicken liquids ( just a little ) . The skins of onions and garlic are at least 10 % pectin , the substance that is used to thicken jellies . If you are making a stock or a soup , you can place the washed unpeeled garlic or onion quarters in an oversized herb sachet . After cooking you remove the sachet and discard its contents . The <URL> . You can read all about the science of garlic and onions in <URL> . While it does discuss the antioxidant effects of Alliums in general it does not treat the particular compounds that have been discovered in the skins .
You can cook steaks from frozen , it is just a matter of adjusting cooking times . They will take longer to cook . But you have saved several hours in defrost time . I take my frozen steaks and sear on both sides , then finish them off in the oven for about 16 mins depending on cut , or with a thicker cut for about 18 to 20 mins . America 's Test Kitchen has experimented with this idea and says that the steaks taste better cooked from frozen ( <URL> ) . I have to watch the temperature otherwise the steak might get a little tough , but I always preheat the oven . For me , 180 ° C.
Do n't bother soaking them . Dried hardwood does n't readily soak up water , so for this to work you 'll have to either soak for a rather long time or start with green wood ... but if you 're using green wood then you do n't need to soak it . For good , consistent smoke , you want to control heat and airflow : <URL> , you can control heat by simply moving the chips away from the coals . If the design of your BBQ allows , you can do as he suggests ( horizontal separation ) ; otherwise , try placing the chips in a pan above the coals . For airflow , you can adjust the vents on your BBQ - if you 're getting flair-ups with the lid on , chances are you 're letting too much air through . You can also limit airflow to the chips themselves by wrapping them in a packet fashioned from sturdy aluminum foil with holes punched in it ( but you 'll still want to separate them from the coals , or you 'll just burn through the foil and be back where you started ) .
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
If your jam has at least 1:1 ratio ( 1 kg of sugar per kg of fruit ) or more , you do not have to can it . Then it is so overwhelmingly sweet that bacteria can not live in it . If the jam has less sugar ( 1:2 are popular , 1:3 are found sometimes ) , then you have to either can it , or keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days , similar to any other cooked food . Else , you are colonizing bacteria in your jam , and at some point , some of them will happen to be pathogenic and cause some unpleasant disease in whoever eats the jam . Canning is a process in which the jam is closed against any new bacteria ( that 's why you have to close the jar hermetically ) and then heated enough that most old bacteria are killed . After canning , you can keep the closed jars at room temperature without any new bacteria developing .
Great french toast starts with the bread . You 're looking for two things : thick slices , and staleness . Why stale ? Stale bread has enough firmness to stand up to the custard . If you do n't have stale bread available , you can set it out the night before in a simple wire rack . At least 8 hours should be enough to stale it up nicely . They will be rather firm to the touch . The ideal finished product is crispy on the outside and creamy in the middle . This might be what you mean by mushy , but mushy in my mind is kind of negative . The key to accomplishing this is to let your bread soak in the custard only 30 seconds per side , but then move it to a rack to sit for another 2 minutes further . This extra set time allows the custard to penetrate deep inside the bread , and be distributed much more evenly . The final trick to getting a nice crispy crust , is to cook it twice . First in the pan/griddle as you normally would , but then 5 minutes in a 375 F oven on a rack . This brief oven stint crisps up the exterior nicely . I highly suggest watching Alton Brown 's <URL> episode . That 's where I learned the oven trick , and his recipe has n't done me wrong since . Regarding <URL> , I 've never had it , but based on the Wikipedia description it sure sounds like a good candidate . Just make sure you slice and stale it overnight .
No , it is n't possible to over soak wood chips , chunks , planks , or any other size that you want to throw on the grill ( within reason , I would n't soak them for weeks because the water would get scummy ) . In fact , the directions given often grossly underestimate optimal soaking time . I assume this is because the manufacturer does n't want to scare people off by saying " soak for 12-24 hours before use . " Wood smokes better when it 's wet . If it 's dry , it catches on fire and produces less smoke for a shorter period of time . What you really want is for the wood to be thoroughly wet so that it smolders rather than flames and produces lots of smoke for a long time . As you would expect , the larger the piece of wood , the longer it will smoke and the longer you need to soak it . My general soak times are as follows : Small Chips - These are very small , coin sized . Generally get totally saturated in 2-3 hours . Large Chips - Between Small Chips and Chunks . Soak for 12 - 24 hours . Chunks - These tend to be about 1/2 to a whole fist sized . These want to soak for at least 24 hours . Planks - For plank smoking . Soak for 8 - 12 hours . You can always soak for less time , you just wo n't get quite as much smoke production . Judge the need based on what you 're cooking . If you want a little smoke on a steak that you 're only cooking for 5-8 mins , then you do n't need to worry about it . If you 're trying to smoke salmon , it matters more . If you want to smoke a butt for 12 hours , it matters a lot .
Convenience : It 's more convenient and easier to monitor the temperature inside the home . The oven has a thermostat , where the grill temperature needs to be monitored and adjusted manually . No smoke left : Is could be assumed that the smoke has been exhausted . Too much smoke : The smoke flavor could become too strong if finished on the grill .
While it depends on your taste and recipe , I can tell you what 's my favorite amount . I tend to chop chocolate to pretty big pieces ( cubes approximately 2cm long ) . I tend to put as many chocolate chips as it takes so that some of them fall off when mixed with the dough . I then additionally push leftover chips in dough when forming cookies . I try to avoid chips that are too small and chocolate powder ; somehow the cookies are better when chocolate powder is not mixed into dough . I suppose the contrast between the dough and chocolate chips is what makes them tasty .
Peach and Apple wood are readily available , and I use them regularly for fish . You may find that since the wood is in fact considered treated , you may find it is in fact available ... Try here : <URL>
end question
start question
What material/metal is typically used under the layer of coating in ' ceramic ' frying pans ?
There is no material which is " typically " used . The ceramic coating works on different bases , and I have seen both aluminum pans and steel pans with it . There are probably other types too . If the manufacturer wo n't tell you what a given pan is made of , there is no way for anybody else to tell .
First , fully generically : The main distinction made by The New Food Lover 's Companion ( Fourth edition , 2007 ) is that a " casserole dish " , can be glass , metal , ceramic , or any other heatproof material , while a Dutch oven is usually made of cast iron . Another distinction is that the Dutch oven may be a kettle , which typically implies the presence of an overarching handle from which the entire pot may be hung ( as over a fire ) , while no such option is offered up for their definition of a casserole . This is generally confirmed by the fact that while , yes , both we and the marketplace ( sellers ) seem often to use the terms casserole and Dutch oven interchangeably , whenever the vessel is equipped with an overarching handle retailers seem to avoid referring to it as a casserole . More specifically , when you turn to high end concerns in service to restauranteurs , such as <URL> , there 's no confusion on the matter . Casseroles invariably lack overarching handles and , unlike Dutch ovens , may come in quite small sizes and do n't necessarily require lids . So while Dutch ovens may or may not have overarching handles , they <URL> have lids and are invariably substantial in size . The compiled side-by-side photos below , as extracted from WebstaurantStore , goes to show just how severe the contrast can be between the two items . Second , to the question of browning : Here are a couple of examples which seem to speak for themselves , as far as how well ceramics or ceramic coatings can be expected to perform when baking breads . <URL> offers a Cast-Iron Loaf Pan ( photo below ) about which it says , The specially formulated black matte interior enamel contains traces of quartz , giving it additional heat resistance and a rougher surface resulting in better browning . <URL> also offers a Bread Cloche ( photo below ) , for which it makes the following claim , Duplicating the benefits of baking in a brick oven , the ceramic bread cloche turns out individual loaves with tender , moist interiors and crispy , evenly golden crusts . I 'm sure there exist any number of additional examples of bakeware , each of which possesses similar properties to these . ( The links provide a good deal more information . ) I hope this however is enough to help you take the plunge , so to speak , toward this option if that 's what you 're interested in doing .
Cream sherry is very sweet - likely too sweet for most recipes that do n't explicitly mention it . If a recipe simply calls for " sherry " , it usually means dry sherry , as that 's the most common kind of available . In fact , I do n't think I 've ever even seen " very dry " around here . So I would definitely stick with the dry . As for brand , I believe that sherry is the brand ( somebody correct me if I 'm wrong ) . If you see several different bottles all labeled sherry , I do n't think it matters too much which one you pick - at least if you 're using it for cooking and not drinking . P.S. . If you 're using this as a substitute for rice wine , the commonly-accepted substitute is indeed dry sherry .
Vermouth is a fortified white wine that has been infused with herbs , spices and fruits . You should expect it to add those flavors to your dish . Have you tasted the vermouth on its own ? Are you sure you ca n't identify it ? If you still think you ca n't , I 'd suggest tasting your soup as you add each ingredient and concentrate on what flavors each ingredient adds . For what it 's worth , Cooks Illustrated has reviewed Martini &amp; Rossi Extra Dry and classified it as " not recommended " due to tasting medicinal and harsh . Gallo Extra Dry California and Noilly Prat Original French were both recommended , in that order . They used a pan sauce as well as straight tasting for their reviews . Perhaps you could try that yourself and see what flavors vermouth gives to a pan sauce , as compared to a white wine . You might find out that you 're overpowering or masking a flavor in your vermouth with some of your various herbs &amp; spices .
Under-ripe tomatoes definitely seem to me like they were n't exactly meant to be eaten like that . There are certainly still things one can do with them , but the flavor is n't always what you 'd like ( see tastefive 's comment ) ; they were selected for their characteristics when ripe . Tomatillos , on the other hand , have always been used like this . They 're supposed to be tart and bright green ( unless they 're a differently-colored variety ) . I think tastefive was pretty on-target with the mention of lemon juice ; they have a nice bright tartness to them but definitely no bitterness . They 're quite pleasant to eat fresh , if you 're the kind of person who likes tomatoes and fruit . ( I just ate one to make sure I was n't lying to you . ) A much bigger difference , though , is n't taste : tomatillos are n't really juicy . You can slice and dice all you want and your cutting board will still be dry . This is pretty clear from pictures - here 's one I found with Google image search : This makes them very well-suited for the kinds of Mexican sauces they 're traditionally used in , more so than a green tomato would be .
It depends how you like your rice . Personally I like my fried rice to have a few sticky lumps through it to add texture . Others may like it completely ' separated ' . It 's really up to you . I usually use a combination of long grain and Basmati . Another point is to make sure your rice is safe - it needs to be cooled relatively quickly , and kept cool , to prevent the growth of Bacillus cereus , which can cause serious ( no pun intended ) food poisoning . As it happens , fried rice is much better when cooked with cold rice and very hot oil anyway , so it 's a good idea to keep it cool in any case .
There are several reasons for adding orange juice : The first is for flavor . The second is to act as an acid . Although in this particular case , the acid is already in the baking powder . All baking powder needs to act as a leavening agent is some kind of liquid . Unless you meant baking soda , in which case an acid is necessary for leavening . The third is to inhibit mold growth . The real reason vitamin C is added is as a dough enhancer , not for gluten development . Since this is a quick bread ( no yeast ) , gluten development is not a main concern . The fourth reason for the orange juice is to make a tender crumb . Because of the fructose found naturally in it . Sugars are added to baked goods as a tenderizing agent . This recipe sounds yummy !
It is used extensively in Indian cooking . I have one book , <URL> that calls for it in virtually every recipe , and each time reminds you to cut the amount down by 3/4 's if you ca n't find Yellow Cobra brand . It does indeed have a flavor someone reminiscent of aged garlic . It is thought to have medicinal value as well ( see the wikipedia article for details ) .
This coating is not the same thing as a seasoning . Iron rusts when exposed to air . For cooking purposes , you season it , and it prevents rusting . Some manufacturers sell their iron cookware pre-seasoned , but others use other types of coating to prevent rust . This other coating can consist of wax or petroleum products such as parafin . Its only purpose is to seal the pan air-tight for the time it spends in warehouses and stores . It would melt during cooking and mix with your food . Therefore , you ca n't use it instead of seasoning . But you ca n't season a pan " on top " of the wax coating . The real seasoning would stick to the wax , and when the wax melts , the seasoning will come off . Therefore , you have to remove the wax coating before making a normal seasoning from polymerized oil . If you bought a pan which was seasoned instead of wax-coated , you can start using it without any removing and re-seasoning .
The usual reason given is that Aluminum will react with the alkalis in dishwasher detergent and discolour . <URL>
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
I have two ceramic-coated skillets ( one aluminum , one cast iron ; both coated on the inside with ceramic ) and they are decent . There is still some sticking of food , but it is very manageable . It also does n't ( so far ) peel off like the Teflon ( or other non-stick coating ) always did , so I feel much better about preparing food without the negatives of that stuff getting into my food . As far as cooking , one of the skillets ( standard shape/size ) cooks very well . The other is a large skillet that is almost wok-shaped ( but not quite ) and it cooks things very differently from what I am used to , but I am pretty sure that 's due to the pan style and not the material .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
For 12 ounces of cranberries , use about 1 cup of sugar . You may like to use part brown sugar . Lemon juice , orange juice , or zest of either are welcome additions . There is no absolutely standard American version ; like anything else , every cook has their own variation .
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
Ceramic will - if preheated - prevent some cooling of your water , but plastic filter-holders do n't have much heat capacity so you do n't lose much with them , either . Plastic filter-holders and paper filters have the advantage of not costing much so you can have one at home , one at work , one anywhere else you want ... As with most coffee preparation , a good grinder is paramount and getting freshly roasted coffee is also extremely important .
Yes , cream soups are typically roux-based . If you add some flour ( roughly an equal amount to the butter ) to the fats , whisk and cook the flour for a couple minutes and then slowly whisk in the milk , it will be much less likely to separate . The soup will also be thicker , which I would imagine is a good thing .
Those are the <URL> -- muscle meat , not organ meat . I 'm glad you 've learnt to enjoy them by intuition , as they are indeed a prized portion of the chicken . Wikipedia tells me the French call this portion <URL> : " ( only ) a fool leaves it there " , because it is little known , easily missed , and much prized .
Coupling design matters more than material . If you make your coupling short and thin , concentrating all the force in a small area , it will strip even it 's metal . Conversely , a well-designed coupling is longer , so the strain is spread over a large area . I have a Cuisinart CSB-76 hand ( immersion ) blender , and it has handled ice numerous times without any problems . It has a plastic coupling , but it is a good 3 cm long to spread out the force over more material . If I recall correctly , the professional-grade Vitamix blender also uses a plastic coupling , but with careful engineering to prevent problems . It is now common to advertise kitchen appliances based on their motor 's power ( 700 watts in this case ) , but many of these appliances will have mechanical failures if called on to deliver that much power . I suspect that you 'd be better served to look for a lower-power blender from a reputable brand with good consumer reviews . I do n't think the professional-grade immersion blenders I 've used in restaurant kitchens are rated to more than 400 watts . Personally , I recommend the Cuisinart CSB-76 , and have never had a case where I needed more than its 200W .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
end question
start question
Has anyone ever tried birch sap as a tonic ?
I 've tried unfermented birch sap before ( I got it at a local Russian supermarket ) . I was expecting it to taste somewhat like <URL> . Instead , it was surprisingly tasteless ; like <URL> , I suspect one would have to reduce/concentrate it quite significantly to get a pronounced birch flavor . It had the taste and consistency of a thin/diluted simple syrup with only a faint hint of birch flavor . I made a cocktail using birch sap and <URL> : a liquor modeled after a <URL> liquor called " root tea " that was the predecessor to <URL> ( which is , ironically , non-alcoholic ) , one of whose primary flavorings is birch bark . I forget what else ( if anything ) I put in it , but I seem to recall that it worked quite well . I asked a Russian friend of mine if he had ever heard of fermented birch sap . He said that , although birch sap ( " берёзовый сок " , if you ever want to find it in a Russian store ) is very popular in Russia , he has never heard of anyone fermenting it . However , he did add that " Russians would ferment anything ... " On a somewhat related note ( at the risk of going off topic ) , there is an extremely popular low-alcohol drink in Russia called <URL> ( квас ) which is made from fermented rye bread . Despite the fact that birch sap is also popular , every Russian for whom I 've served root beer or <URL> absolutely hates the stuff . Likewise , I love root/birch beer , however , I hated kvas the first time I tried it ( but I have since developed a taste for it , over time ) . I have developed this theory : Anyone who liked the taste of kvas the first time he/she tried it will undoubtedly dislike the taste of root/birch beer the first time he/she tries it . Likewise , Anyone who liked the taste of root/birch beer the first time he/she tried it will undoubtedly dislike the taste of kvas the first time he/she tries it . I have surveyed dozens of Eastern Europeans and Americans alike who have tried both , and I have yet to find a single person that invalidates my theory . Is there anyone out there who has tried both ?
The main things that Parmesan cheese can add to a salad are fattiness and salt . The first thing that comes to mind for me is bacon . You could probably also make a yummy main dish salad ( or hearty first course ) by adding duck or a cured meat such as salami . If you 're not interested in adding meat , how about olives ? Those would serve similar purposes . Other options might be marinated artichoke hearts or mushrooms . Just make sure you choose ones that are n't too tart , as they might add to the effect of the lemon vinaigrette .
I 'm looking for the online reference , but I remember reading in Cook 's Illustrated that they were able to substitute a bit of gelatin to mimic the mouth-feel of homemade stock . I did find a <URL> recipe that used gelatin . Based on how you described your recipe , I would say that the long cooking of chicken bones is indeed what 's missing . You might get a better result if you roast your chicken breasts and vegetables before cooking them in the broth .
There is probably still some risk , so I would n't assume it was safe ; however , ice-cream is frozen , so I would n't worry about ice-cream at all , unless the egg-mixture was left at room temperature for a significant time before freezing . As far as I know , salmonella is in the faeces of the chicken , if present . Some faeces will often stick to the shell . In very rare circumstances , which I believe are negligible , the salmonella penetrates the shell and infects not only the white ( less of a problem ) but also the nutritious yolk , and then the whole egg is contaminated . But this chance is probably too small to encounter in one 's average life time . What has normally happened if the faeces are contaminated and people get sick , is that some of the salmonella present on the outside of the shell contaminates the egg when the shell is broken , or the extremely small number of bacteria present in the white get a chance to infect the whole egg ( chance ca. 0.005 % , see below ) . ( Note that in many countries the outside of the shell of supermarket eggs is supposedly sterilized . ) At that very moment , however , the number of bacteria present in the egg white should still not be enough to make people sick . But if the egg is then left to sit outside the refrigerator for several hours , and enough faeces touched the egg white , the bacteria may have enough time to multiply and make you sick . If the egg is properly refrigerated , chances are much lower , but I do not know the exact numbers . One often sees grey spots and smears on the outside of eggs ; I believe this is normally chicken faeces . Even so , salmonella is quite rare , such that the healthy should n't be worried about making ice cream , mousse au chocolat , and such from unpasteurized eggs . But if a young child , an old person , a pregnant woman , or someone with health problems were to eat the ice cream , I would not take the chance and use pasteurized eggs . If the food is contaminated , the fact that people do not get sick who have eaten it immediately upon making it offers little evidence , because the bacteria have n't had the time to multiply yet . I believe you will normally not get sick from eating contaminated steak tartare , for example , because it is eaten immediately . However that may be , ice-cream is frozen : as Derobert said below , salmonella probably <URL> , and certainly not below 0 ° C , so ice-cream should be safe under all normal circumstances , that is , if it was frozen shortly after breaking the eggs . Normal temperatures in refrigerators slow down the growth of the bacteria as well : perhaps you should n't worry too much about anything that is kept at 7 ° C anyway for a few days . The inside of an egg was once considered almost sterile . But , over recent years , the bacterium Salmonella enteritidis ( Se ) has been found inside a small number of eggs . Scientists estimate that , on average across the U.S. , only 1 of every 20,000 eggs might contain the bacteria . So , the likelihood that an egg might contain Se is extremely small -- 0.005 % ( five one-thousandths of one percent ) . At this rate , if you 're an average consumer , you might encounter a contaminated egg once every 84 years . -- <URL> , <URL>
The flexible generalist thermometer of the kitchen , the instant read thermometer , should be quite suitable measuring the temperature of the water for tea brewing . It covers the right range , has reasonable accuracy , and responds relatively quickly . You can get traditional ones such as the <URL> very inexpensively , or high quality electronic ones such as the <URL> , as well as a large number of mid-range models that offer excellent value , accuracy , and reasonable response time . Many come with a clip that would allow you to set them on the side of a pot , but you would not attach them to kettle . Instead , you hold them in , and they register the temperature in a few seconds ( depending on the model ) -- thus the name , instant read .
I do n't have any experience with frozen or canned pearl onions ( I assume canned because of the mention of draining ) , but I regularly cut and freeze 10lbs of onions at a time for ease of use later in the week/month ( more info on how/why <URL> ) . With these onions that I freeze myself , caramelization seems to be the same as it would be with fresh onions . I have n't done anything special when caramelizing with them , and there 's been no increase in necessary cooking time or decrease in flavor . If you really wanted to be safe , you could probably drop them in boiling water for a minute or two ( or defrost them on the counter for an hour ) , but with how long it 's going to take to caramelize anyway , I would think this extra step is unnecessary . Also : if you 're going to take the time to caramelize , but you 're short on time during the week after work/school/etc , I recommend making a huge batch and then freezing the resulting caramelized onions as well . Very handy !
The only way I know is by adding some more liquid and warming the mixture , It may or may not improve things ... For what its worth , the consistency of the jam after cooking , tends to be related to the amount of sugar added for a given fruit , with hard skinned fruit typically requiring a slightly different process to soft skinned fruit . It 's also controlled by the amount of pectin added to the brew as well as the overall cooking time and temperature .
A thermometer is the only way to be sure . For methods with a consistent level of heat ( stove , oven ) , you should able to learn the average cooking time , and outwards cues of color and texture that match the right internal temperature . Remember that these will vary with cooking method and temperature . Internally , the meat should look opaque and white . These are CUES of doneness , not guarantees . Use the thermometer . For methods with inconsistent levels of heat ( bbq , campfire ) , wait until it looks nearly done and then check with the thermometer . Err on the safe side . Prepared properly , chicken is a lot more forgiving of overcooking than steak .
Using refrigerated biscuits for <URL> is actually just a convenient shortcut - if you do n't have pre-prepared biscuit dough at hand , you can simply make your own sweet yeast dough from scratch , that 's the classic ( pre-Pillsbury-can ) recipe . Either find a recipe that uses sweet yeast dough from scratch or substitute your favourite sweet yeast dough . ( The Wikipedia page linked above has a link to a recipe , for example . )
The advantage would be cutting some sodium out of your diet . If you are like many in the western part of the world , you probably get more than your daily allotment of sodium regularly . By making sure to cut sodium where you can , you gain the health benefits of a well-balanced diet . Since salt is a flavor enhancer , a low-sodium diet can often seem bland . Many look for alternatives . Vinegar brings out flavors in a different way and adds a significant flavor of its own . I 'd start small , using just a bit of vinegar .
I would not reuse that oil . The frying-oil reuse that occurs in fast food chains is reuse for the same day or over just a few days . They also store it properly and not just sitting exposed in the fryer . justkt is correct that more saturated fats are less sensitive to breakdown , this is why bacon grease can be kept for a rather long time . Three factors play a significant role in oil degradation : Oxidation Any contact with air causes oxidation in oil . High temperatures , metal alloys , surface exposure , and even UV light act as catalysts to this reaction . Hydrolysis When water interacts with oil it causes it to taste tainted or acidic . This is exacerbated by high temperatures , heating/cooling cycles , and oxidation products . Polymerizaton When frying oil deteriorates , the resulting products form both volatile ( or reactive ) and non-volatile compounds . Non-volatile compounds remain within the frying oil , and can produce polymerization at frying oil temperatures above 200 ° C ( 390 F ) or in isolated hot spots within the frying system . These molecules bond together to form large , different-sized clusters that accumulate on the oil 's surface . Since they do n't dissolve , they cause foaming ; trapping air under the oil , and increase the possibility of hydrolysis . Given all these , the best environment for any oil is an cold , dark , airtight place . Cold temperatures may cause clouding , but this is not a cause for worry . Source : <URL>
The easiest way I have found to cook whole artichokes is to steam them in the microwave . Cut off the top of the bud and then trim off any beaten up tough outer leaves . Place in a large glass bowl with about 1/2 cup of water in the bottom . Cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on high for about 4-5 minutes . Check and add more time if necessary . You can then eat the leaves and save the base and heart for another dish or eat the whole thing .
It sounds like it 's fermented , and more harmful bacteria or mold could definitely have grown without being visible . So it 's not safe , in that there 's definitely some risk . It 's hard to evaluate exactly how risky it is . It sounds like you 're already routinely taking risks by eating iffy food that 's not obviously rotten or moldy , so you certainly could choose to take that risk here . I 'd really advise against it , though . Remember , food poisoning is n't just about stomachaches . If you end up in the hospital , it 's going to cost you a lot more than a replacement jar of applesauce . As a side note , applesauce generally requires refrigeration . The jar you have almost certainly says " refrigerate after opening . " So it may not be a good choice for an egg substitute . You might want to look into actually shelf-stable substitutes . If applesauce is working for you , <URL> ( or chia ) or mashed banana might be good options . Flax and chia are totally shelf-stable , and while bananas do n't last forever you can at least buy them as you need them .
To further add to this . Here 's an explanation from the Chefsteps site on brining The Effects of Brining Charged chloride ions from the dissolved salt in a brine will repel , destabilize , and unravel various proteins within the muscle fibers of meats and seafood . This is not altogether different than what cooking with heat also does to these proteins . The combination of dissolved salt and heat combine to increase the juiciness of flesh by drawing water in during brining and squeezing less of it out during cooking . Brined foods that are cooked have a telltale texture because the combination of salt and heat creates a firmer , more elastic gel than heating does alone . But avoid overdoing it , otherwise the flesh can become too firm and chewy , as well as too salty . <URL>
Given the source ( Michael Ruhlman ) and that it was linked by Seriouseats , I am willing to bet cash money that not only does it work exactly as stated , it will provide spectacular results .
If it grows a grey or pink mold around the edges , or a black mold , throw it out . That 's an undesirable mold . Those molds are n't usually dangerous , but they can make the cheese taste bad . With gorgonzola cheese specifically , the mold is injected in to the cheese via needle-like things , and then it grows veins from there . If a mold is a different color and it 's coming from somewhere other than the veins , that is probably not a good mold . See also <URL> . .
Lactose intolerance ( which is different from a milk allergy , which is a smaller group ) comes in varying degrees , so this may be useful for people who can have a bit of lactose ( who can process casein fine ) . For example , many lactose intolerant people ( who often avoid dairy ) can handle non-dairy creamer fine ( and varying amounts of cheese ) , even though it has casein . Many cheese substitutes still do use casein . The parmesan adds glutemates to the mix , while casein gives a lot of <URL> to cheese ( like melting ability for real cheese ) .
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
In general lard can always be substituted for butter , but you will not get the same flavour , obviously . Lard is perhaps a bit more ' savoury ' than butter , so it may be worth trying a pie out just to see if it works with a sweet filling . You should be able to convert straight from butter to lard . Another alternative is vegetable shortening , which you can use in all kinds of baking .
Strictly speaking most gumbo recipes I am familiar with rely on the use of a roux as the primary thickening agent . Sure the okra contributes somewhat but in my experience using a darkened roux is what is called for . Please keep in mind that the more you cook the roux the less thickening power it has so you need to use a little more .
end question
start question
If oil in a frying pan gets displaced , say by too much liquid being sweated , will the meat be unevenly cooked ?
Not in my experience . The water will spread out through the pan and meat will still cook evenly , just slower . You should n't have this problem with most meats , but it can be a problem with chicken breasts in particular , and if you also have vegetables in the pan they can release a fair amount of water . The basic problem with too much water releasing from meat ( or anything else ) when frying is that it reduces the temperature of the oil down to the boiling point of water . That kills the advantage oil has over water , that it 's boiling point is much higher . ( Higher in fact than the temperatures typically used in cooking . The bubbling you see when frying are caused by the vaporization of water . ) That 's what oil makes more efficient at heat transfer , it 's temperature is higher . This also means that it still should cook evenly , just slower , because the oil will be at the same temperature as the water . You 're basically just simmering the meat instead of frying it . When this happens the simple solution is to temporarily turn up the heat . It takes a lot more energy to convert water into steam than it does to keep oil alone at a desired cooking temperature . You wo n't have to worry about burning anything , because the water in the pan will automatically regulate the temperature , keeping it at or below 100 C ( 212 F ) . Once enough of the water has been evaporated you 'll start to hear normal frying sounds again and you can turn back the heat to normal .
Ripening of the avocado is slowed down greatly by refrigeration , so it is usually a good idea to let the avocado ripen fully at room temperature . Once it is ripe , it can be stored in the refrigerator for at least a week . This way , it is ready to use whenever you want it . Fortunately , there is a day or two when the avocado is ripe , but not too ripe , so if you check on it everyday when ripening , you will be able to save it at the correct ripeness without worrying about it too much . Putting an unripened avocado in the refrigerator may prevent it from ever ripening completely . Once cooled to near freezing ( 40F in most refrigerators ) , it seems that some avocados ( maybe it depends on the type ) do n't ripen anymore , even when removed to room temperature .
I 'd deglaze the pan after each pan and transfer the juices to a small bowl to make a sauce I would wipe/clean ( no soap ) the pan after each batch . After the last batch , transfer the bowl content and make a sauce with the last pan drippings and what you already have .
Just because the recipe calls it an " omelette " does n't make it one . An omelette starts and ends its cooking in a pan . If you finish it in the oven , it becomes a frittata . ( There are a couple of historic differences , but let 's just stick with that . ) If the egg mixture both starts and finishes in the oven it would probably be a crust-less quiche . The benefits of cooking in the oven is the ability to get more even cooking of the eggs to get a more consistent texture throughout .
According to the <URL> : If packaging is accidentally cooked in a conventional oven , is the food safe to eat ? Plastic packaging materials should not be used at all in conventional ovens . They may catch on fire or melt , causing chemical migration into foods . Sometimes these materials are inadvertently cooked with a product . For example , giblets may be accidentally cooked inside the turkey in their packaging or a beef roast may be cooked with the absorbent pad from the fresh meat packaging underneath . The giblet bag and the absorbent pad are clearly not intended to be cooked , however if this happens and the packaging materials remain unaltered ( that is , do not melt or come apart ) the cooked meat will not pose an imminent health hazard . If the packaging materials have melted or changed shape in some other way do not use the product . Who are they kidding ? Of course , they are altered . With deep regrets , I threw my roast away . ( More info <URL> . )
Escallion = scallion = green onion . I think it 's possible to substitute regular onions in some situations , but there are a lot of variables . First off , scallions have a sharper , more grassy flavor than onions , though they 're not as strong . Then there 's the question of which kind of onion you want to substitute . White onions have some of that same sharp flavor , and are quite strong . Yellow onions are much milder and sweeter , and might not be such a close flavor match . Red onions are somewhere in between , in my experience . I would probably try white onion , but in much smaller quantity than called for of scallions . It 's also important to consider how the scallions are being used . If they 're being cooked into the recipe , that 's very different than if they 're being added right at the end , or even as a garnish . I think the substitution is less of an issue if the scallions are to be cooked . If they 're to be more or less raw , I 'd suggest white onion , not too much of it , and sliced very very thinly , as a raw white onion is really strong . Whatever you try , bear in mind that it wo n't be exactly the same . But that certainly does n't mean it 'll be bad -- just different .
Any increased steam pressure would raise the boiling point , not lower it . However , I doubt that you will be able to seal the pouch well enough to withstand any serious pressure . What may cause boiling though , is the fact that ovens cycle on and off , especially at low temperatures . The amplitude of the cycles depend on how good your oven is . At 200 ° F , your pouch will probably experience above-boiling ambient temperatures during the on-part of the cycles . Of course , that does n't mean that the contents of the pouch is above-boiling , but there may be . However , I do n't think that the braising liquid boiling slightly now and again is going to be a big problem . Sometimes when I 've braised meat , there 's been some boiling , and the results have still both looked and tasted great .
No recipe alteration needed . Fried meatballs will develop more of a crust , and thus more flavour through the Maillard reaction . In any case , unless you 're making tiny meatballs ( or finishing their cooking in a sauce of some sort ) , they 're going to need to be finished via baking anyway . I would only do the baking method if I had to make an enormous quantity at once . For home cooking I always fry then bake .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
The PH scale ranges from 0 - 14 with the lower numbers being more acidic than the higher number . Canned tomatoes are generally around 3.5-4 .5 on the acidic scale , in other words just above the half way point below neutral 7 . As long as your tomato based sauce is not left in your seasoned Kadai ( as Kristina rightly points out ) for a long timeframe and your kadhai is washed out immediately after use no damage to the seasoned coating should occur . Just remember to wash out your Kadai ( with warm water and a cloth ) immediately after use to preserve the seasoned coating .
1 - Oil is separated in curries normally after you have cooked spices or sauces for ~ 10-15 mins . You can tell by seeing " bubbles " appearing and the oil by making a thin layer on top of your sauces/curry . 2 - It varies , but normally after 10-15 mins the oil separates from your curry . 3 - Normally after cooking for 10-15 mins most of the water dries up which causes the curry ( mostly made of thick sauces ) to separate from the oil . 4 - It 's always good to let the oil separate from your curry because of two things :
Grilling/broiling would be a good alternative to pan frying , as the more intense heat will crisp the skin much more effectively than baking . It is a generally healthier cooking method because the food is not sitting in oil ; any fat will drip off into the grill pan .
There 's no single answer , as there 's a few considerations here : Was it ground meat , or a larger chunk ? How far cooked was it already ? How far over-salted is it ? Is it being cooked in some sort of sauce or other liquid ? Depending on the answer to those : If it 's not over-salted by much ... serve it with a sauce that has n't been salted , serve it on top of a bland starch ( rice , pasta , baked potato ) or mix it in as the flavoring to something else that 's unsalted . ( eg , a casserole , soup , stew , etc. ) If it 's uncooked larger chunks , you can rinse it off ( in cold water ) , pat dry , and then cook it . If it 's uncooked ground meat ... the salt will cause the proteins to start tightening , and make things start to stick together if it sits before you cook it . If you have n't stirred in the salt yet ( for those times when the lid came off a salt shaker ) , you might be able to get the worst of it off with a spoon , or even pick up the block of ground meat and shake it off . Rinsing is still an option , but it 's more difficult to dry back off before cooking ... you might have to resort to other options . If it 's while cooking ... you might still be able to rescue it . If it 's not in a liquid or sauce , for the ' lid came off the salt shaker ' situation , for large hunks of meat , just pick it up and shake and/or brush off the salt . For ground meat or smaller chunks ... you might need to add some water , and then pour the water off ( a strainer helps with this ) . If it 's larger hunks in a sauce , you can pull it out and remake the sauce . Depending on the type of sauce , you might want to save it to use it as flavoring in some other dish ( casserole , soup , etc. ) Your most difficult case is ground beef in a sauce . If it 's wet enough , you can rinse if off in a colander ... for thicker sauces , if it 's not so salty to be inedible , you can try serving it over rice , pasta , a baked potato ... or turn it into a casserole . Note that all of these assume that you 've caught the problem quickly ... if the meat 's been cooking in the salt for an extended period , you might have to go with the casserole route , as it 'll have absorbed the salt .
In general places that do this with pancakes do not cut-out , but indeed use a mold or the like . The scrambled eggs would likely look fine " cut " , but part of a pancake is the edge , even if it is modified by touching the edge of the mold . So long as the mold is metal , your dollar-store purchases should be fine . You will likely need to oil/butter them in some way so that the product - batter or egg - does not stick to the metal itself . I have myself used clean old tuna tins to make round " self-contained " fried eggs for a home version of a McMuffin .
All of the following are generally cooked items : Shrimp , ebi , available raw in sashimi , but almost always lightly poached . The poaching brings out sweet and subtle flavors otherwise masked by a metallic tang . It also prevents the highly perishable shrimp from losing texture to spoilage . Octopus , tako , available raw in sashimi when sliced very thinly , but otherwise poached lightly . The poaching reduces toughness and brings out additional flavors in an otherwise bland meat . Eel , unagi , as you noted , is ALWAYS grilled , and steamed . This is necessary to achieve the truly transcendent flavor and texture of unagi . In fact , the cooking of eel is such a challenge that it is generally a whole separate chef profession in Japan . Most eel comes from one of the professionals , because sushi cooks know they will never be able to match the quality themselves . Improperly cooked eel becomes tough and has unpleasant flavors . Raw , the blood of eels is even toxic ! Sweet egg omelet , tamago , is by definition cooked . This is not to say that raw egg does n't have a place in Japanese food though ; tamago kake gohan is a dish of raw egg on rice , with soy sauce . Cockle is lightly poached Crab , kani is always cooked because ... well eating raw crab meat is just vile . For further reading , I highly suggest the <URL> . Food Safety : Sushi is only prepared from the very freshest and highest quality seafood , and sushi chefs are trained to identify parasites and signs of spoilage . In addition , some areas ( including the EU ) require sushi to be frozen for 24 hours to kill parasites . If that was n't enough to help settle your stomach , the pickled ginger and wasabi served along with sushi are more than garnish or simple condiments ! Both ginger and wasabi have potent and documented anti-microbial and anti-parasite properties . Ginger is also well-known for combatting nausea . Source : the CRC Handbook of Medicinal Spices , <URL> for wasabi and <URL> for ginger . ( links are to Google Books copy ) .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
You need 1.1 x as much water as pasta for al dente ! I measured this myself , cooking penne rigate ( in water , not sauce ) - 200g of pasta weighed 420g after being cooked and thoroughly drained . The estimate below from the nutrition facts is 1.4 x , which probably corresponds to typical American overcooked pasta - a surprisingly large difference from mine . I 'm guessing you 'll be somewhere between , maybe 1.25 x . You can also ballpark it from nutrition facts . <URL> has 31g carbs per 100g pasta , and <URL> has 75g carbs per 100g pasta . So 100g dry pasta turns into 100g * 75/31 = 242g of cooked pasta , meaning the added water was ~ 1.4 x the weight of the pasta . So for a pound of pasta , that 's 1.4 pounds or about 2 2/3 cups of water . Given people 's tastes , this might be a little past al dente , so I would personally start with maybe 1.25 cups of water then add a little more if necessary . ( I 'll also try cooking pasta normally and weighing it if I get a chance . ) Note : if you have a significantly different variety of pasta , it will obviously behave differently . This is for pasta that 's 13 % protein and 75 % carbohydrates . For the standard 2oz/56g ( dry ) serving on the package , it 'll say 7g protein and 41-42g carbohydrates . I checked Barilla , De Cecco , Ronzonni , Garofalo , Safeway store brand , Trader Joe 's store brand , and those nutrition facts , and they all matched . If you 're branching out to other styles like whole grains or egg noodles , things will obviously change , but things are very uniform in the US .
I 'm not exactly sure why you 're trying to brine then boil ; you should be able to simply boil your chicken in salty stock and get plenty of salt into it . It wo n't take nearly as long as brining , because things happen faster in boiling water . Assuming you boil for any significant length of time , much of the salt will indeed come out into the cooking liquid , and you 'll end up with your soup approximately as salty as the chicken . ( If the chicken is in large pieces , this of course only applies to the part the brining and cooking liquids can actually reach . )
Not much is out there . Food-grade silicone oil ( dimethylpolysiloxane , for the chemists out there ) is routinely used in medical and food-prep devices , and it has been approved by the US FDA Office of Food Additive Safety for use as a direct additive in diverse foods , like milk , dry gelatin dessert mix , canned pineapple juice , and even salt . Of course , we 're talking about minuscule amounts , in the range of 100 ppm ; at high concentrations , it is a skin and eye irritant . So what level is safe ? We ca n't assume that the FDA ever tested it , as the Office of Food Additive Safety is woefully underfunded . An informal literature search yielded me only a handful of scientific articles looking at silicone oil in frying . The most promising was by Bertrand Matthaus , Norbert Haase , and Klaus Vossman , " Factors affecting the concentration of acrylamide during deep fat frying of potatoes , " Eur . J. Of Lipid Sci . &amp; Tech. , V. 106 ( 11 ) , pp. 793-801 ( Nov 2004 ) ( fig. 3 specifically measures acrylamide concentration as a function of the amount of silicone oil ) . Unfortunately , I do n't have a subscription , so I ca n't tell what the bottom line was . Myself , I do n't see the benefit of using it at home .
You 've got this all mixed up ! Unless you 're deglazing to do a pan sauce , the steak should be the LAST thing cooked . It 's the centerpiece of the dish and the most expensive part , and should n't have a chance to get cold while you cook the other parts . Saving cleaning on a single saucepan is not worth eating cold steak . You MUST use a stainless or cast-iron for this . As others touch on , teflon is not safe for searing , and fast temperature changes will wreck it . Here 's how to do things : Julienne onions to saute , prepare and measure stock , trim fat from steak , cut or butterfly it if needed ( this is your mise en place ) . Start preheating saute pan for onions Start butter melting in saucepan for roux Prepare roux and saute onions at same time , then add stock to roux , whisk , and season Transfer onions to bowl , cover to keep hot , and start to preheat pan for searing steak Cook steak while finishing sauce as needed , then rest it appropriately Plate steak , garnish , sauce , and serve Alternately , here 's another approach : Mise en place ( prep ingredients , optionally pre-measure them ) Prepare sauce in advance , set aside or keep hot . Or , even do it the day before and reheat it . It 's a roux-based sauce ; it wo n't go bad in the fridge , and will reheat beautifully . Saute onions . Or , caramelize onions beforehand , and just reheat them briefly and add . Cook steak Plate , sauce , serve And , finally the deglazed pan sauce way Mise en place Sautee onions . Set aside in bowl ( or on a serving plate ) Cook steak Throw heavy cream or red wine in to pan , and deglaze by scraping vigorously with a utensil and stirring as it boils vigorously Quickly season this , and throw in the onions , a few pinches of parsley , pepper , salt , garlic , and paprika , plus optionally thyme Congrats , you now have a pan sauce with onions to throw on your steak In a professional kitchen , you 'd have your onions pre-sauteed or sauteeing at the same time as the steak , and your sauce will be prepared in bulk , beforehand . You 'd only have to cook the steak and briefly heat or season the other two parts .
end question
start question
What can I do with dried chipotle chillies ?
I 'm not sure I 've ever seen chipotle paste called for in recipes ; I searched around a bit and what I found was consistent with my experience . I saw chipotle en adobo , ground chipotle , and even whole dried chipotle . I also easily found recipes for chipotle en adobo . I do n't think you 'll have any trouble figuring out what to do with them . The most common way I 've seen chipotles , both in grocery stores and in recipes , is chipotle en adobo . You can make your own by simmering dried chipotles in tomato paste with vinegar , garlic , onion ( search for recipes if that 's not specific enough ) . I suspect that most chipotle pastes you might find are something like this , but pureed , and possibly cooked until thicker . The other common way to use chipotles is as a powder ; that 's as easy as grinding them in a spice grinder . If you 're using them in something that gets cooked for a decent amount of time , I 'd just do this and add them , instead of making chipotle en adobo or a paste out of them . Just think of them as a spice .
You can crisp them up again in a hot oven for a few minutes ( exact temperature not too important , spread them out thinly on a baking sheet and take them out before they burn ) . I 'd then go on to make a normal cornflake cake recipe of your liking straight away , to avoid having the same problem again .
Beer Can Chicken has a few tricks to have it turn out amazing as opposed to just average . I always take my thawed chicken and rub it all over inside and out with vegetable oil and pureed garlic ( about one large clove ) . Then I coat the skin with seasonings like salt , pepper , seasoned salt or chicken/poultry seasoning like sage or an \ Italian mix ; you can use anything the you want . Cajun spice and lemon are also pretty good . The beer has to have some flavour to it , do n't use a light beer . Apple ciders ( strong bow , perry 's pear cider , black thorne ) or a white wine/cooking cherry will also do the trick . I use a half a pop/beer can and then stuff the chicken and the bottom tray with onions , red peppers , garlic and celery . The key to crispy skin and moist chicken is low heat on the BBQ , turn one side onto medium heat and put the chicken on the off side with the lid closed for 20 minutes per pound of chicken . Practice makes perfect ... chicken .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
One method I found over time : Chop it into tiny pieces and stir fry it with bacon and onions ( also chopped up ) . Once that 's soft , leave it to cool , then mix it in meatballs in a 50:50 ratio . If some eggs and breadcrumbs are added a fine meatball is made that tastes a bit sweeter and veggy and is healthier . :)
I had the same problem with floating chillis so I now soak mine in a cafetiere .
The answer depends on where you live , and what type you have brought . In many countries that import chickpeas they heat treat them to kill seed-borne diseases and insects . The heat treatment process makes them more difficult to cook , and soaking times double or triple . Beans from exporters with phytosanitary certificates can be imported without heat treatment ; these are the ones you want to get . I do n't think you can tell which is which by looking at them . At the moment we have some particularly dark , dry , and dead looking beans that soak up beautifully in 8 hours ! Soak non-heat treated beans for 8 to 12 hours , heat treated beans for 24 to 36 hours . Some overly heat treated beans will never fully revive , and you are best to return these to the shop as " faulty " . Soak and cook without salt , unless you are going to mash them . They fall apart more readily if salted . If you are not mashing them , the secret to great chickpea taste is after soaking and cooking in water , is to lightly fry them with a little olive oil until dark spot appear , keep them or the pan moving so none burn . Then add the sauce , or add them to whatever dish you are preparing .
( Storage note : do not wash the bulbs before storing them ; place in plastic bag in the refrigerator . Wash just before using . ) Young kohlrabi is great raw . Peel first , then add to salads ( sliced or grated ) serve as part of a veggie platter w / dip grate it and add to slaw ( but after grating it , put some salt on it &amp; let it sit , then squeeze the water out of it ) puree it - here 's someone who really loves it pureed : <URL> Cooked kohlrabi can be steamed or boiled . Remove the skin after cooking . You can eat the leaves , if they are still firm and green ; use them within a couple of days . Wash the leaves &amp; remove the tough stem parts ( ribs ) . Blanch in boiling water for a couple of minutes , drain , chop , and serve with a bit of butter , salt , and pepper . A little vinegar or lemon juice is good on them , too .
There is no exact conversion because there are so many different varieties of chickpeas or any bean types for that matter Their water absorption rate and amount is effected by many things including how they have been stored , have they been heat treated on import , and what time of year they where grown ! My rough rule of thumb for beans in general is 2.5 ± .5 times the volume and 2 ± .5 the weight after an overnight soak With our local chickpeas it 's 2.2 times the weight after 10 hours at 20 ° C ( on the bench ) 200g should be around 440g of soaked chickpeas . 1 cup of chickpeas is around 240g , so just shy of two cups of soaked chickpeas should do it
Melting them together makes the chocolate less sticky and therefore less likely to stick to your melting pot . Probably would n't cause any other problems if you did them separately ; there is no chemical reaction between the chocolate and the butter . Either way its convenient to melt them together so that you can do it all at once and save time .
Any kind of flavoring , really , so long as the application will accept a syrup substance . They make killer milkshakes / malts . Add them to all kinds of desserts , beverages . I 've occasionally replaced extracts and granulated sugar in a recipe with a flavored syrup but you have to experiment with the right combinations as this tends to either overpower the dish with flavor or not make it as sweet .
I 've had apricots that smell vaguely like alcohol before , especially the ones that are not completely desiccated but are still plump and only dried to about half or so of their original volume . I 've never had problems eating them and have n't had them go bad .
So , there 's maybe a few things I found to reduce the astringency or bitterness of spinach . If you can reduce the bitterness to a flavor you like first , rather then relying on the sugar to mask or balance astringency ( which it does n't hide so much ) - you can probably end up with a better dessert . One thought is that <URL> the spinach will help counter bitterness . briefly boil your washed spinach , and discard the water . If you 're intending to further cook the spinach afterwards ( as in making a fruit-based halwa ) , cold shocking it might not be needed - It 's possible that discarding the water will be enough , though of course you can try with and without the cold shock to see what works for you . Another thing is astringency can be countered or hidden by soaking in <URL> - Adding a bit of <URL> to your final recipe ( as in some of the fattier nut-style halwas ) should help balance a little bitterness , Pre-soaking the spinach in milk and discarding might work to draw out some of the astringency . Soaking in food grade lime or absorbic acid like lemon juice or vitamin C , might also work . Another option is to consider the source of your spinach - <URL> ( for example ) will likely not have as much of the bitterness in it to begin with , compared to a cooked full grown spinach . Baby spinach is mild enough to be eaten straight in a salad , mild enough that it might even be candied , like <URL> , for a garnish after your dish is complete . You might also consider whether the spinach will work better as a flavoring agent or as a bulk agent in your halwa - many fruit based halwas ( which seems the easiest method ) simply stew the fruit with sugar for a long cooking period , so you need to make sure the spinach as a whole is not going to turn bitter or change while cooking . Other types of halwa may use different ingredients , for different effects - a jelly based or nut-based halwa might easily be flavored with spinach juice ... juice which can be extracted at any point along the process , from raw to well-boiled . Leaving the solids behind may help reduce unwanted flavors - or just make the juice more controllable ( that is , extract the juice when it is a flavor you like , and the lack of the rest of the plant might keep it form changing overmuch ) . You might even consider pairing your spinach with another fruit or vegetable , something complementary or neutral for the bulk removed if you go the juice route - something mild and vegetal might mellow the spinach taste without overriding it ( especially if you watch the proportions and use more spinach flavor , less other flavors ) . Maybe watercress , or celery , asparagus , or bellpepper , something like that that tastes green , or tastes good with spinach . Or you could find a flavor that goes well with the spinach - citrus , or apple , or berries - the kind of flavors that show up on sweet dressings for fresh spinach salads .
There is apparently evidence that some of the flavour compounds in honey deteriorate during heating : <URL> The text suggests that honey should not be heated to more than 50 degrees Celsius ( 122 degrees Fahrenheit ) . So it might be wise to let the tea cool down a bit before adding the honey . Having said that , I usually put the honey in immediately after removing the tea leaves and it tastes fine to me . The flavour of the honey is clear and pronounced and I have never felt that anything was missing .
In theory it 's possible . However , not all blenders are created equal . <URL> mentions doing it , but in my experience to blend something into a super fine powder ( a flour-like consistency ) you need a really powerful machine like a Vita-mix . Also you may get inconsistencies in texture with a blender . This is one reason professional coffee bars use burr grinders instead of blade grinders : to achieve a consistent grind .
According to this step-by-step <URL> , you can definitely make sweetened coconut from dried coconut . Things You 'll Need : 1/2 cup desiccated coconut 1 tbsp . powdered sugar 1 1/2 tsp . canola oil 2 tsp . water Instructions : Blend dried coconut and powdered sugar with a whisk in a medium-sized bowl until the mixture is uniform . Combine the canola oil and water in a small bowl , stirring until the ingredients are well blended . Pour the liquid ingredients over the sugared coconut . Stir them to thoroughly coat the coconut . Let the mixture sit for 10 minutes , or until the coconut absorbs all the liquid . Stir the mixture once or twice to turn it over . Use the moistened , sweetened coconut immediately for best results . Alternatively , place it in a plastic freezer bag for short-term storage in the refrigerator or long-term storage in the freezer . While sealing the bag , press out as much air as possible . Tips and Warnings : The vegetable oil moistens the coconut and helps the powdered sugar adhere better . If desired , increase the amount of water in the recipe to 4 tsp . and eliminate the oil . Likewise , substitute the canola oil for safflower or sunflower oil . Do n't use olive oil , however , as its saltier flavor will mask or diminish the sugar 's sweetness . The recipe calls for a small amount of coconut because it 's best to use homemade , sweetened coconut as you make it . You can easily double or triple the quantities of each ingredient to make larger batches . Sweetened , shredded coconut will stay fresh for about a month in an airtight container stored in a cool , dry place or the refrigerator . If the instructions do n't work out for you , I 'd suggest re-hydrating your coconut in a bowl of room temp water , draining the water out of the bowl , blotting the coconut until damp , and then adding the sugar .
Cumin is most often used ground , yes . You can , if you prefer -- and as in common in Indian and other cuisines -- toast it first until it is fragrant ( a minute or two in a dry skillet at medium heat ) . Then , grind it in a spice grinder or mortar and pestle .
Using a large amounts of seeds will significantly influence the humidity of your dough and bread . Dry seeds will soak up quite a bit of water - either during resting time or afterwards . This is especially bad when this soaking happens after baking , as your bread will get very dry ... Wholemeal tends to have the same effect . The best way to counteract this effect is to add more water and add more time This can be done either by pre-soaking the seeds , which will then " bring " the required extra water to the dough or letting a rather wet dough rest for a long time , preferably over night . The first approach is easier , because the seeds take up the required water " automatically " , the latter preferable taste-wise . Longer resting times allow for the development of complex flavors and need very little yeast or sourdough . As for recipes , you should be able to find plenty on the internet .
Just slice it into thin discs ( a mandoline is quick ) and the kids use it as chips 'n' dip . Try some natural or Greek style yoghurt and whole seed mustard as a dip . Very crunchy and tasty If the skin is dry or blotchy I quickly run the potato peeler over it first Otherwise , just grating it into soups or stews is a nice vegetable filler EDIT Doh , forgot the best thing to use it for Coleslaw , it replaces cabbage perfectly . Or you can mix cabbage and broccoli . Just coarse grate it with some carrot , onion . Blend it up with a little mayo and yoghurt , or lemon juice and olive oil . Add some ground fennel and cumin seeds or some chopped mint for extra zing
In both cases , you do n't add the recipe 's amount of water to the proofed yeast . If your recipe says e.g. 500 g flour , 300 g water and 10 g fresh yeast , you measure these 300 ml water , then pour some of the 300 ml over 10 g of pressed yeast to proof it , adding a teaspoon of sugar if you want it quicker . After that , you mix flour , proofed yeast and the remaining water together ( for simplicity , I left out salt and possible other ingredients ) . You do it exactly the same way with dry yeast , only you have to use the correct substitute ratio , which is 3:1 . So you measure 300 ml of water and ( 1/3 ) * 10 g = 3.3 g of dry yeast . Then you pour some of the 300 g of water over the dry yeast , and after it has bloomed , you mix flour , sponge and the remaining water . The bread hydration stays correct , and the fermentation time/amount is equivalent to the fresh yeast case .
end question
start question
Onion and Garlic , a no-no ?
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
Biologically speaking , they are actually different species , but the names are so commonly used interchangeably as to completely muddle the distinctions . For example , spot prawns are actually shrimp while ridgeback shrimp are actually prawns . Prawns have claws on three of their five pairs of legs , shrimp have claws on two of their five pairs of legs . Their gills and body shape are different too . As far as cooking them goes , they are virtually identical and interchangeable . <URL> <URL>
In the U.S. biscuits are made with chemical leavening , they use baking powder to cause them to rise . Rolls ( or dinner rolls ) are yeast bread . There are obviously other differences in the recipe ( s ) but baking powder vs. yeast is the essential difference .
From my experience and what I 've seen , garlic cloves are often applied to soup in un-chopped glove . Overtime , the boiling will release the garlic 's sweet to the soup without melting itself into the liquid or dissolving into tidbits that attached to the ingredients . I have also seen people pan fry the garlic gloves to golden brown before dumping them into the water . I believe the purpose is to harden the outside of the garlic while getting more exotic flavor out of it . Otherwise , I would chop/dice/smash garlic for dips and frying .
The existing answers already explain why yeast and baking powder wo n't work together . But even if they did , you would n't have a reason to use them . You seem to think that fluffiness depends on the amount of gas produced by the leaveners . In fact , it depends on both the gas and the ability of the dough to trap that gas . If you produce too much gas ( no matter whether through yeast or through baking powder ) , then the fluffiness will be less than when using the optimal amount of leavener . This happens because your dough can not hold the gas and the bubbles break , resulting in the dough deflating like a punctured tire . So even if combining two leaveners would have resulted in more " blowing big " action ( which it does n't , see the other answers ) , you would not end up with a fluffier end product . If you want fluffy muffins , you have to use a recipe and a technique which is best capable of retaining the gas produced by the baking powder . The amount of gas production is not a bottleneck .
So ... I was always taught that you remove it because it 's bitter . I generally remove it if it 's big enough . However , there seems to be some contention as to whether this is true ( and to what degree it 's true ) . See : <URL> and <URL> In short , there are mixed teachings as to whether you should remove it . But essentially the germ DOES affect the taste of garlic . Some call it bitter , some call it " more garlicky " . Ruhlman suggests that if you 're hitting it with heat immediately , then there is n't a point in removing it . If he 's doing something that will have the garlic sitting around , then he does n't . From this what I 'd suggest ( and what I 'm going to try doing from now on ) is to ignore it and if you notice a difference in taste , or more importantly find the result objectionable . then take it out next time . Otherwise do n't bother as you wo n't know the difference .
In order to develop browning for a good , deep flavor on the meat , you need a high temperature and a long enough time that having the onions in the pan the entire time would leave them overcooked . Also , the onions would express water , which would lower the temperature to simmer or steam , preventing the beef from browning . For these reasons , it is common to sear or brown the ground ( minced ) meat , and then add the onions to cook through when it is done or nearly done . You certainly could cook the onions separately , either in the same pan , or in a different pan . Many people do n't consider the extra effort and cleanup to be worth any marginal improvement in results .
It 's the exact same as a Tupperware , and totally unnecessary ... Unless you need the visual key of an onion shaped tupperware to remind you that onion is inside .
I always store mine in the pantry . I use it frequently enough that sprouting is rarely an issue . If you need it to last longer you can freeze garlic , though I have never needed to . Shelf Life An unbroken bulb of garlic can last 3-5 months in a cool ( 55-60 F ) dark place . Once broken , the remaining cloves last only about 7-10 days . Frozen , you can store garlic 10-12 months . Source : <URL>
The vitamin loss is due primarily to the puree'ing . The viramin A in mangoes comes from beta-carotene , and beta-carotene breaks down easily due to oxidation . On a similar note , I 've seen recommendations that carrots ( another good source of beta-carotene ) not be chopped into small pieces before canning to preserve their vitamin content . Lots of vitamins are also destroyed by the heat of canning , but beta-carotene is not as susceptible to this problem because it is fat soluble .
Yes . The more finely you process your garlic , the more of the flavour-bearing liquid is released from ruptured cells .
Taste-wise there will be little to not difference in the result . Just be careful to use the proper ratio of garlic to salt ( generally 3-to-1 salt to garlic powder ) .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
I have seen recipes that call for chopped white onions instead of pearl onions , which leads me to believe it is feasible . The texture might be different ; when cooked , pearl onions tend to have a different sort of bite to them , much like a grape , revealing a burst of flavor after a slight resistance , whereas chopped fullsize onions tend to be more one-note and soft . I do n't know for sure what pickling does to the texture , but if it is beneficial to use whole onions for a similar effect , you 'll lose that . I suspect the flavor penetration would be greater , however , due to the cutting .
I 've cooked a number of batches of cookies based on small variations of <URL> , which is very simple and requires no eggs . I generally use a little more oil and water than the recipe recommends , but perhaps that 's just my preference .
Simply put : No . Step 3 on <URL> : Just be sure that the temperature remains at about 130 to 150 degrees Thinking of beer fermenting , specific temperature ranges are required because that 's what keeps the yeast happy . Not sure about the function in this case , but it follows that it 's probably temperature-sensitive as well . A food dehydrator would probably be a better bet than the oven .
The green in the center can have a bitter taste , and many chefs prefer to remove them . If the taste and color do n't bother you , it will not cause problems for the dish . The brown end tends to a have a harder consistency than the rest of the clove , so may cause a problem depending on how you cook the garlic . If you 're cooking it in a manner that leads to a very soft and mushy piece of garlic , you 'd be better off discarding it . ( Boiling in soup , for example . ) It probably would not make much of a difference if you were browning the garlic for a topping .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
You do n't have to peel garlic before using a garlic press , but doing so lets you press more garlic before you have to clean out the skins and so forth . If you only need to press a clove or two , there is not a lot of reason to peel first , since you will just have to clean the press out once .
Since dietary fiber is made mostly of cellulose that is n't broken down during cooking I do n't think it should be an issue . The browning that occurs is from the proteins and sugars already in the onion . <URL>
end question
start question
How to put stuff inside baked sandwich and bread ?
Adding inclusions like vegetables , fruits , nuts , and meats to bread loaves and rolls is usually done either during the initial mixing stage or during shaping . When you should add the inclusions really depends on how large the ingredients are and how you want them distributed in the final loaf . When adding inclusions at the initial mix it is advisable to add them late in the mix/knead , after some gluten development has already occurred . Adding them early in the mix can increase your kneading time , break up or pulverize your inclusion , or give an uneven or " off " color to the crumb from juices and colors bleeding out of the included ingredient . Smaller , minced , or chopped inclusions can be added during the mix if you want it distributed evenly or at shaping if you want it to appear in a distinct layer . Larger inclusions are easier to add during shaping . Inclusions with high water ( like fresh tomatoes ) or fat content ( like raw bacon or pepperoni ) will cause large cavity formation and layer separation that might make it difficult to use the bread as a base for sandwiches and can lead to doughy undercooked areas around the inclusion . To reduce this effect you can use a drier/dried version of fruits and vegetables such as dried tomatoes or raisins ; you should render out the fat from bacon or pepperoni by pre-cooking . If you pre-cook your bacon or pepperoni before you mix the other ingredients you can add some of the rendered fat to the mix so that the flavor permeates the bread , just reduce the amount of butter or oil called for in your original recipe . Cheese can be added at either stage and can cause issues related to both water and fat if the wrong type of cheese is used . Cheeses that tend to release oil and separate ( like Cheddar and most aged cheeses ) are better grated and added in the initial mix . Cheeses ( like Jack , Colby , Havarti , or American ) that melt well can be added grated at either stage . Most inclusions have little noticeable effect on leavening . Cured meats and cheeses contain salt so you may need to reduce the total salt added to the dough ; the curing salts used in cured meats may slightly reduce yeast activity . Spices like cinnamon , cardamom , ginger and nutmeg can increase yeast activity , while mustard inhibits yeast activity . <URL>
Invert the bottom layer , top down , on a plate . Add the ice cream , but do not spread it to the outside edge of the cake . Top with the second cake layer , pressing gently . Then , using a sharp knife , slice vertically completely around the edge , removing the sloped edges of the cake . Surround the outside edge with a wrap of parchment paper or foil . Chill . After the cake is firm , you can slice horizontally to level the mound at the top of the cake , if you wish , before removing the paper/foil cuff .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
As long as the tonkatsu is cooked and then cooled appropriately ( ie relatively quickly ) , then stored at appropriate temperatures ( ie refrigerated ) until consumption , you should be fine . The length of your journey to work will be the main factor - you need to keep the food cool enough , so a cool bag with ice blocks may be in order . Then you need to make sure they remain cool until they are consumed . Whether or not they should be reheated is probably a matter of taste . Also , check your local regulations for selling food for public consumption . It will vary from country to country , but many places will require a kitchen inspection and permit before you can legally sell food .
I suppose that depends on what you 're defrosting it for . The microwave ( on low power ) is safe and quick . The downside is that you 're using a microwave , which means there 's a good chance you 'll actually cook the outside slightly in the process , and you 're killing enzymes that are normally part of the flavour . The lower the heat , the less the impact of this , but it 's still a problem . If I 'm preparing the meat for marinating , stir-fry , etc. , something with a powerful or thick sauce , then I would n't worry about it , but if it 's going onto a grill with just a little bit of seasoning , you might want to avoid this . Running it under warm water would seem to work , but I 've found that it takes forever to defrost this way ( the exterior will loosen up but the interior stays stubbornly frozen ) , and you 're soaking it in the process . This really is n't suitable if you need to pound or fold the meat or do anything complicated with it . I would use the microwave if desperate , but it 's really best to thaw the meat in the refrigerator or , if you 're in a bit of a hurry , the sink . It takes longer , but it 'll turn out much better than the microwave in terms of flavour and tenderness . P.S. . One other word of advice : If you 're making a dish that requires the chicken to be cut or sliced , it 's best not to defrost it all the way . It 's easier to cut when frozen , and will defrost very quickly once it 's in pieces . I 'm mainly talking about the breast here , this does n't work so well with meat stuck to bones . Update : I 'm noticing a lot of recent hubbub about the dangers of defrosting in the sink / on the countertop or using warm water and I wanted to clarify something . Please note that that the advice above applies to chicken that will be immediately cooked after defrosting and that the defrosting is done over a period shorter than 2 hours . Raw chicken must not be kept at any temperature above 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) for more than an hour or so . Do not defrost a chicken breast in the sink and then toss it back in the fridge . Definitely do n't try to defrost a whole bird this way - stick to the refrigerator or very cold running water . As long as you follow the above precautions and cook the chicken thoroughly ( up to an internal temperature of 165 ° F ) , you 're not in any serious danger of salmonella poisoning , even if the original piece of meat was contaminated - and most chicken sold today is contaminated , for the record . If the meat is going back in the refrigerator for marinating or you plan to delay cooking for any other reason , then you need to either thaw it very fast ( using the microwave ) or at a very low temperature ( using the refrigerator or cold running water ) .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
The most recent Cook 's Illustrated has a cinnamon swirl bread article that discusses this problem . According to them , the root cause is a lack of binding between the dough and filling . Gas from the yeast , and steam generated during baking , push into the spiral , creating pressure that compresses the dough and widens the gap . In the specific case of cinnamon bread , they recommend using powdered ( confectioner 's ) sugar instead of granulated , and using a large amount of cinnamon . The finer sugar dissolves more easily in moisture from the bread , quickly creating a paste that is reinforced by the cornstarch and by starches in the ground cinnamon . Misting the bread before adding the filling also helps . In order to make a sausage filling adhere to the bread , you would need a sticky , water-soluble element . Cornstarch or powdered gelatin spring to mind immediately as possibilities . The other tactic they employ is to actually expose the filling during proofing , preventing the yeast 's gas ( and later , steam ) from building up alongside the filling . Once the filling is rolled into the dough , the loaf is cut in half lengthwise . With the two halves laid side-by-side , cut face up ( exposing the filling ) , they are wound around each other , folding the left piece over the right until the end is reached ( this is called a " Russian braid " ) . The ends are pinched together , and the loaf is placed in the pan to proof . This , obviously , should help with any kind of filling , not just cinnamon sugar .
Normally , you would not be doing a final proof overnight -- that is , the proof that you have done to form the loaf . Instead , you would do the first ferment or proof overnight , then form the loaf , let it have its final proof , and then bake it . The dough wo n't be wasted , but you do n't want to bake a formed loaf that has over-proofed and fallen . This is because the gluten network will have collapsed and you will have a very poor structure and strange texture . You will need to reknead the dough , form the loaf , and reproof it : Per <URL> , you can almost certainly just punch the dough down , and let it proof again . It may actually have an improved flavor . <URL> concurs : Using your fingertips , gently punch down the over-proofed dough and reshape it into a ball , then allow it to proof again for the recommended amount of time although it warns your final loaf may be about 20 % smaller .
Depending on how far overcooked it is , then you might be able to resuscitate it by cutting it into smaller pieces and cooking it low and slow in some liquid . For example , you could use it as the meat in a stew , or slice it thinly and then braise it with some vegetable to make a pot-roast . This also gives you an opportunity to introduce additional flavor , as it sounds as if that may have been lacking as well .
As Jefromi already mentioned in a comment , the sandwich bread common in the Western part of the world is soft and often sweet , ready to eat . When you search online for <URL> you will only get images of roasted bread with various fillings . I think the bread you refer to is in a half baked form , which you can find in supermarkets here sometimes too : it is used here mostly for baked sandwiches with cheese . The bread is only ready when going through another baking cycle .
You 're missing an important step here : You need to use cold water immediately after the boiling water in order to halt the cooking process . Boil them for about 1 minute , then drain . ( You can pour boiling water over them , as in the case of almonds - it does n't really matter how you do this . ) Submerge or rinse in cold water , to prevent any further cooking and softening ; Peel them . For the case of almonds , you should not rub them in order to peel . Just pinch the end - they should pop right out of their peels . If you find it taking any more effort than this , stop , do n't waste any more time on peeling , and just blanch them again . If you 've blanched them long enough , peeling will be very easy .
Try using a bow style bread knife . It works well because it allows you to put pressure on the opposite side of the loaf . Also , the bow helps you visually line up the slice .
In short , the answer is no , it is NOT safe . <URL> It 's tempting to lop off the fuzzy patch , but the mold could have spread already . " Once you 're able to see mold on bread , it means there 's quite a lot of mold , " said Nelken , a food consultant in Woodland Hills , California . " It 's indicative that there 's mold on other slices , just not at the level you can see it . Why jeopardize your health on a slice of bread ? " Nelken likened mold to jellyfish . " Even though you scrape off the head of the jellyfish , the tentacles are still in the food product . " Eating moldy bread could cause an upset stomach . Although most molds are innocuous , it 's probably not going to taste good , food experts said . The U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service recommends discarding moldy bread and baked goods , because of their porous texture .
Yes , the blueberries will bleed , and , what 's even more non-4th-ish , they will make purple or lavender stains instead of blue . If you are serving the roll rather quickly after assembly , consider thickening the pureed blueberries seperately with some corn starch or pudding mix . Then you can make a blue-and-white filling inside the red roll . The blueberries must be boiled and cooled again , obviously , because they would otherways melt your cream cheese icing . Aim for a " spreadable pudding when cool " consistency of the berries , ideally the same consistency as the cream cheese filling . You can layer both fillings atop each other , but the risk of them mixing when rolling the log is high . I suggest piping alternating blue and white stripes parallel to the edge where you hold it / future long axis of the log and rolling very , very carefully . This should result in a blue/white pattern when you slice the log ( wipe the blade often ! ) . The longer you store your log , the more colour will leach into the white , but a few hours should be ok . Chill thoroughly .
( after reading this : <URL> ) They usually use pectinase ( <URL> ) to break down pectin molecules to help mechanical filtration . They also use gelatins to help clump up particules to help mechanical filtering .
You are spot-on : Whole-grain recipes often use more water and tend to " flow " , so using a loaf pan is typically the way to go . Loaf pans alow for a " wetter " dough . It is absolutely possible to bake a free-form whole-wheat loaf , but it needs experience with kneading , resting time and shaping to balance the water content and comparatively low gluten . Also , for the final rise you had better not rest it on the counter , but in a floured basket ( in a pinch , a bowl will do ) to avoid the " flattening " effect you noticed . Bake in a very hot , well-preheated oven on a hot pizza stone or in a hot dutch oven to encourage proper crust formation and a good oven spring in a humid environment . ( Unless you are going for the solid " Pumpernickel " type , but that would be in a loaf pan anyway . ) So find another recipe ( or experiment yourself if you have the experience ) and you are good to go . I have successfully worked with high water content ( up to 80 % ) , but always with a poolish/pre-fermentation with a long slow rise to " soften " the whole-wheat and get the enzymes going . Doing a few rounds of stretch-and-fold during the first rise helps to align and strengthen the gluten structures ( and a tablespoon or two of additional gluten ( " vital wheat gluten " ) is a good trick up your baker 's sleeve as well ... ) . Sourdough is optional if you are baking wheat-only , but if you use rye , you should definitively look into that subject as well . If your main goal is n't a whole-grain loaf , use a classic " Artisan bread " - type recipe , and start exchanging some of the white bread flour with equal parts of whole wheat flour ( and - optionally - add some gluten ) . Find your personal ratio where the result satisfies you . For 20-30 % whole-wheat you wo n't notice much of a difference , with 50 % your loaf will get denser and possibly need some " tweaking " , e.g. a splash of extra water . The " long-cold-rise-with-very-little-yeast " - types are the most flexible in my experience . ( The oil is n't a problem . )
Assuming you really do a crisp/cobbler , you can do any of those . If having it fresh and hot is the most important thing , but you want to avoid the inconvenience of cooking too much at your destination , your best choice is to prep first and cook later . ( This all changes completely if you decide to bake a cake instead . ) Assuming you like it served hot , it 'll of course be best if it 's cooked there . You might as well do the prep first ( but of course you do n't have to ) ; just be sure to keep the topping and the fruit separate and assemble right before baking so it does n't all soak through . Doing it all beforehand is probably the most convenient though , and it 'll work fine . You can reheat it in the oven at your destination ; that should help crisp up the topping a bit . ( You might want to err on the side of underbrowning it at home , though , so you do n't burn the top later . You can also cover it with foil to keep it from overbrowning . ) And of course , if you do n't want to serve it hot anyway , you might as well do it all at home .
Chia seeds can be used without soaking , but they absorb a LOT of liquid and create a gel . If this is n't accounted for in your recipe , they could cause the finished product to have an odd texture . At the very least , I 'd add extra liquid to your batter and let it sit for a few minutes to check it 's consistency before you use it .
Some ( many ) bread machines do n't mix well , so you might not get a good mixture whatever you do . But it 's worth trying . If you are making the bread immediately after adding the ingredients , it probably does n't matter much how you add the ingredients ; just put the yeast and the sugar and such in the centre . If you use the timer , it is important that the yeast stay dry up until the moment the machine starts mixing . What gave me the best result is this : add water , sugar , salt , egg , fat ; mix this by moving the pan around until the ingredients are mostly dissolved ( or stir with a wooden implement ) ; then put all the flour in a heap in the middle of the pan ; make a hollow in the centre of this heap , put the yeast in this hollow ; then set the timer . Another tip : if you put the pan on a kitchen scale while adding ingredients , and you press " tare " on the scale after each ingredient , it 's much easier to weigh everything . This only applies if you use ingredients by weight , of course . Lastly , experimenting with amounts that differ from the recipe may greatly improve your bread . It depends on the machine . I also found that the " French " setting on the machine ( = longer baking ) gave the best crust .
To toast walnuts , pecans , pistachios , macadamias , and other nuts , follow the same procedure as for toasting almonds : spread them in a single layer on a baking pan . Bake at 325F until they are light brown and fragrant , about 5-10 minutes depending on the amount of nuts . Check the nuts frequently and stir them to ensure even toasting . Always cool your nuts before chopping them . Nuts have a great deal of oil that has been brought to surface by the heat , and the oil must be allowed to be reabsorbed , or the nuts could turn greasy during chopping . ( information found at : <URL> )
end question
start question
Can I stuff peeled bell peppers ?
Absolutely . Look to <URL> , or <URL> , for a common example of something similar . Poblanos are admittedly a much firmer and more flavorful pepper , but you can definitely stuff bell peppers with the same process . By charring the peppers first - either directly on a flame ( e.g. on a gas stove or grill ) or under a broiler , you can quickly blacken the skin , making it easy to remove . Doing this quickly enough can help avoid making the flesh of the pepper too soft and fragile . You can then ( carefully ) stuff the pepper with the filling of your choice , and finish in the oven . If you 're really good , you can get it all in through the top where you remove the stem , but it 's much easier to split it down the side in just one place , and carefully tuck it back together after stuffing . I 've often seen stuffed bell peppers sitting upright , with the top removed ; if you 've roasted them first you 'll probably have better luck with them whole , lying on their sides .
Dude you said you have cast iron . Cast iron rules . And it performs very well in the oven . No contest against glass and you can make pan sauce on the stove-top after the roasting is finished . My favorite pan to make roast chicken with is my 12 " Lodge cast iron skillet . Glass is probably better at roasting than cheap cookie style sheets , because it keeps the heat distribution fairly smooth . But glass will not hold up well to heavy roasting use and will eventually ruin your dinner when it cracks or shatters . All Clad makes a great roasting pan with wire rack . But for most roasting a simple cast iron skillet works well and is indestructible .
The price of genuine-sealed-and-certified parmagiano reggiano is quite high and fairly consistent , especially for more aged varieties . I think your best bet to save money will be to use a similar parmagiano reggiano cousin , such as grana padano , romano , or a quality Argentinian reggianito . As a second-tier approach , you might look at domestic Parmesan , but use caution as it may not have the same quality as a one of the Italian imports . As for genuine Parmesan : you 're buying at least a couple hundred dollars of cheese , and this gives you some bargaining power . Buy or ask to taste a small sample of whatever you 're considering , and try to negotiate ; managers may be willing to offer you a bulk discount . I 'd gather a couple quotes from cheese shops , try prices at your local Costco/Sam 's Club , and talk to the upscale grocery stores in your area . As far as pricing goes , I 've seen genuine-seal-and-everything Parmagiano Reggiano on sale at about $ 12-13 / lbs at my local Southern Season . I generally expect to pay $ 18-22 / lbs at upscale grocery stores for Parmesan , with remarkably little variation between stores . Your standard grocery stores tend to sell small blocks of inferior-quality and freshness Parmesan for similar prices . In contrast , grana padano runs around $ 12-13 / lbs on average at my local Trader Joe 's , and might be available for under $ 10/lbs with a good sale . I usually buy blocks of that for general cooking use , as it is close enough in taste and much cheaper .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
When I go to the Korean supermarkets in LA , I usually see half an aisle just dedicated to 고추가루 in all kinds of forms ( mild to spicy , fine to coarse grind ) and colors . I do n't know that there 's any specific pepper than it is all about how sweet and mildly spicy 고추가루 is supposed to be . You could start from there to make your own by sun drying and crushing whatever peppers are available to you . If you are looking for a substitute that you can buy at a western store , try crushed red pepper flakes ( the kind you see in the shakers at pizza places ) . You 're going to be adjusting for taste/spiciness anyway , so not much of a dealbreaker .
The issue here is how long do you steep the tea , at what temperature , and under what conditions do you store the used tea bags ? The reason " sun tea " has been discouraged has been because of the likelihood that the tea leaves that are in the bags are contaminated with bacteria such that a long soak in luke-warm water such as that of the " sun tea " causes them to multiply to the extent that they become a serious health risk . Tea leaves are not typically pasteurized during their processing , and may carry viable bacteria and / or bacterial spores . If you were to soak the tea bad in warm water not hot enough to get a good bacterial kill initially , there may be enough viable bacteria in the tea leaves to grow during that 5 hour interval such that the next cup may be seriously dangerous ( some may divide every 15 minutes , for example ) . However , if you were to adequately kill the bacteria and spores off by a nice hot soak ( for this example , you would need to use a pressure cooker since some bacterial spores are not even killed by boiling water at atmospheric pressure ) , refrigerate the tea bag afterwards , and then reuse it 5 hours later it would likely be perfectly fine . I think the final answer to your question comes down to your own personal risk tolerance and the conditions above . If you brew in luke-warm water or for a very brief time and then leave the bags out at room temperature you are just asking for trouble and eventually you may hit the loaded chamber in your own personal Russian roulette game . For empiric answers , take your particular brewing temperature and time and compare it to the USDA tables for pasteurization . Then , look up the growth curves for the major pathogens at your storage temperature and figure out how many would likely be present after 5 hours ( 20 generations at 15 minutes per generation or 2 ^ 20 times more bacteria than viable after the brewing event at the end of the storage interval ) .
Many references indicate that stress on the plant effects the heat rating of the fruits produced . " Good " stress ( usually people want to increase heat ) is generally a reduction in water supply , carefully and aptly timed , and/or increased outdoor temperatures . While appearing dated and non-authoritative , <URL> , also looks very accurate from my experience around growing chiles , and states that ( as is common , referring to spice/heat as pungency ) : ... total pungency amount of the medium and mild chiles increase dramatically when put under stress . Normally , chile plants like summer weather ( sunlight and warmth ) , and are not nearly productive in winter . What you 're obtaining in winter months may be imported from a very different location , probably from a place on Earth where it was summer when harvested . As indicated in the above-cited article , the truly hot peppers do n't get much hotter from stress . Anecdotal addendum : fwiw &amp; ime , chile plants grown in winter ( the ones observed are nagas , tabasco , japone , jalapeños ) are n't as productive and the peppers are not anywhere near as hot . So , when not grown in the proper conditions that a species expects - mostly enough daily sunlight or a long enough warm season , the heat in produced fruits can drop dramatically .
I would imagine the commercial choppers used for McDonald 's nuts generate the same amount of dust . They probably sell that dust for some other purpose . The dust should be easy enough to remove : just shake them around in a strainer .
<URL> suggests Pancetta which is another form of cured Italian bacon , usually without smoking . I think the primary thing you are looking for is cured but not smoked , as smoke will add a strong flavor that is completely missing in Guanciale .
The dried powder in a can is your best bet , short of grating a fresh root . Though an overlingering burn is n't your thing , try pinch of cayenne in the wasabi mix to lend sweetness and more ka-boom . Generous wasabi and some <URL> are my favorite sushi companions .
In general , you can roast peppers to develop a richer flavor . Then skin the pepper and you can use it for salsas , sauces , or just slice/dice it up for a sandwich .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
According to one farm ( <URL> ) , theirs lasts 7 weeks from the packaging date , and has a " best by " date on it . I doubt this is identical for all sources , but it seems like a decent baseline . As for botulism , I 'm pretty sure what you 've heard was related to keeping peeled garlic unrefrigerated in olive oil , which used to be a common practice , and is dangerous . Here 's the <URL> on the incident that started it , and <URL> has more info on safe handling practices . From my experience , it 'll start to turn slimy and lose its texture and flavor near the end of its shelf life , and you wo n't want to keep using it . But as for health risks , you do n't have much to worry about as long as you 're keeping it in the fridge .
A quick google brought <URL> : In this case , the brown ones may have been closest to mature or viable . When fully ripe , most peppers seeds are supposed to be brown or tan . not white . In my experience , peppers with brown are just old and withered . They are safe , just not as tasty . Unless the brown thing is mold , in which case they may be poisonous .
You can either bake them in something , and typically be fine ( there are lots of cookie recipies out there that use them ; search on the internet for ' biscotti ai pinoli ' ) , or you can toast them ahead of time , and then encorporate them . ( often , you toast them , then mix in , and bake ) . But a word of caution on toasting them -- they burn very easily . I 've typically done it in a dry skillet , where I can keep an eye on them , and quickly get them off and to a try to cool . I seem to recall an interview with Alton Brown where he mentioned that toasting pine nuts was the number one ruined dish on Iron Chef America , because of chefs leaving them alone for too long .
Capsaicin is oil/fat-soluble so try washing your hands with a little whole milk , or rub with sour cream or vegetable oil and see if that helps . Just as you can get it in your eyes if you rub them with your fingers , I 'm sure you can easily transfer it to your baby . I 'm just surmising here , not speaking from experience so if you try any of these , be sure to let us know how they worked ... or what you did instead .
Piping bag is your answer . You just do n't use a tip on it .
You 'll want to look for one of two products either <URL> or <URL> . Lait fermenté is a cultured buttermilk . This is homogenized and pasteurized milk which has been cultured with lactic acid bacteria . This is the de facto standard buttermilk in modern times . If you go to an American grocery store and buy buttermilk you are buying cultured buttermilk . Lait ribot is traditional buttermilk . It is the fermented liquid leftover from churning butter . This is not commonly found in the US and other western countries . See also : <URL>
The possible risks I can think of are ( 1 ) the large thermal mass may mean that the soup cools off too slowly , leading to spoilage in the middle , and ( 2 ) freezer burn on the top of the soup , because there 's no truly effective way to seal out air from a pot . In practice , ( 1 ) is unlikely unless you 're talking about a 25-gallon pot or something , in which case it would n't fit in an ordinary freezer anyway . ( 2 ) on the other hand will be a problem , unless you 're only freezing the soup for a short period . The only risk to the pot is that it may not quite fit in the freezer comfortably , so as people take things out and put things in , they may shove the pot about and maybe break a handle or something .
Yes , you can freeze stew . You may find that the vegetables are a bit softer or broken into smaller pieces after thawing . If you used a thickening agent ( flour , cornstarch ) , it may separate as it thaws in the refrigerator overnight . To remedy that , remove a bit of the liquid , simmer with a bit more thickener and whisk so that it stabilizes . Then , gently stir into the stew as you reheat it . And , you 're correct , ' do n't refreeze ' applies to the raw meat , not to when it has been cooked .
end question
start question
Can I cook my haggis from frozen ?
You ' can ' cook it from frozen , knowing that a few things will suffer . First , the outside will be somewhat dried out and over-cooked before it is done in the center , depending on how hot the oven is and the cooking time . That being said , if your Haggis is pre-cooked , it should be OK . You can also ' Hurry up ' the defrosting process by putting it under running water . This can affect texture , depending on what you are defrosting . Finally , you can speed-defrost something by using warm running water , but this carries SOME SERIOUS RISK if you do n't cook it right away . The bacteria will love the warmth and will start to multiply , but I have done this many times when I knew I was using a meat immediately .
My own sugar cookie recipe is quite dry as well . It cracks along the edges when pressed or rolled and is easily " broken " . I 've never experienced a problem with the dough being so dry it does n't take to cookie cutters , but if your dough is literally falling apart you may want to just spritz ( or in the absence of a kitchen water spray bottle , sprinkle with your finger tips ) cold water on it . ( Like adding water to pie dough ) Give it one sprinkle/spritz and kneed it in . Repeat until it just stops breaking . Do n't go overboard and make it gooey . I 'd use water over oil or milk because it 's the least likely to change the structure of your cookie in the baking process . Such minuscule amounts of water should n't yield a detectable change in the end product . If this is a consistent problem with the recipe , in the future I 'd decrease the flour by a tablespoon or two and see if that helps .
The most common methods to create chocolate coated ice cream bars , with or without a stick are to : Use truly tempered chocolate , which may be more trouble than it is worth Use a mixture of chocolate thinned with vegetable oil . See for example , this recipe from <URL> .
No , you ca n't . Or at least , you wo n't get the result you 're really looking for . Water needs to be able to move through the meat for the salt and flavorings to be transported to the inner cells of the meat . When the meat 's frozen , you 're dealing with ice crystals . ... that being said , you can <URL> if you 're desperate , but you have less control to know exactly how much salt will be absorbed . ( and I vaguely remember another question on here about temperature &amp; brining , and I seem to recall someone reported on experimental results that really cold brines did n't transfer flavors deeply into the meat . ) .
Assuming that you want to serve the casserole hot and the streusel crispy , keep the casserole and the streusel separate until almost serving time . This means you will have to bake the streusel on a cookie sheet until crisp and ready , then let them cool uncovered and transport them in a separate container . Your casserole base contains eggs , so it must be baked . You want to avoid a " skin " or " crust " , so cover with foil at least part of the time or even the whole 30 minutes . ( Depends a bit on how wet the mash is . ) Depending on the logistics at the destination , either keep your casserole warm in your carrier or pop it in the microwave for a bit to gently ( ! ) reheat it . The right time to put the streusel on top of the base is a short while before serving - long enough that the hot mash can warm them up and that they can get a tiny bit soft at the bottom ( more authentic ! ) while staying crisp on top . A few minutes should suffice , but a quarter of an hour would still be fine . But keep the casserole uncovered .
The <URL> suggestions : To ripen a California Avocado , place the fruit in a plain brown paper bag and store at room temperature 65-75 ° until ready to eat ( usually two to five days ) . Including an apple or banana in the bag accelerates the process because these fruits give off ethylene gas , a ripening reagent . Soft ripe fruit can be refrigerated until it is eaten , but not for more than two or three days . The California Avocado Commission does not recommend using a microwave to accelerate the ripening process .
This is a combination of the type of cheese and too much heat . Some cheeses melt more readily ( mozzarella for example ) , but all of them will seize up if they are heated too much too fast - the proteins ' curl up ' and separate from the fat and water in the cheese . To combat this , you should chop or grate the cheese up to speed up melting , and lower the heat a little before adding it . You should also avoid using cheese straight from the fridge .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
The mixture should lighten in both color and texture , and it should be ' fluffy ' . It should also increase in volume . The point of creaming is to incorporate the sugar with the fat , while at the same time adding air to the mixture . The air bubbles introduced during creaming expand during cooking , making the cookies rise and giving a lighter texture . Cookies baked with under-creamed butter would therefore remain fairly flat and dense .
You could put them in a pan of boiling water for 3 or 4 minutes ( not so to they 're cooked through ) before putting them in the oven . The potato on the outside of the wedges will soften and cook a little bit which will help the outsides crisp up a little . Make sure you allow them to drain completely before you put them in the oven .
Italian here :) I know that the oil is a well known trick everywhere ... but Italy . The main problem about pasta is that people just tend to cook it too much . The cooking time for pasta should be between 8 and 12 minutes , above this number it will be sticky . Spaghetti is the quickest kind of pasta to get ready , so just cook it around 8-9 minutes and it wo n't stick .
The most common reason for leakage with Cordon Bleu Chicken is that the packets are too thick , which makes it impossible to get a perfect fold ; you need to pound the breasts very thin - less than 1/2 " , maybe a little more than 1/4 " . The other " trick " is to make a small cut along the folded edge of the breast after you fold and seal the packets , which essentially makes it almost like a sandwich ; the top and bottom parts can move independently and you do n't have tension trying to pull the top piece away . Just do n't cut so deep that you cause an immediate leak ; if you 've pounded the breast to 1/3 " thickness , then your cut should be no more than about 1/8 " . If you do it this way , you should n't even need to use toothpicks ; I never do , and I have n't sprung a single leak in my last 20 or so preparations .
In short , kind of , but only with the proper accessories/equipment . You 'll never match a grill or griddle but you can get surprisingly close . As was mentioned in other answers , what you 're going to lose most is the sear . I was given a Corningware Microwave Browning Dish a while back and found that it actually works pretty well when you 're stuck with only a microwave . They were apparently popular when microwaves were new and exciting , but people did n't know how to use them well and they faded into oblivion . I 've seen them on sale on eBay so you might be able to find a good price there if you 're going to be stuck in the hostel for a while . The basic idea is , there 's a special kind of microwave-safe metal inside the base of the casserole . You heat this with nothing on it for 3 minutes to get it nice and hot . When you drop the patty on , it immediately sizzles . You use the microwave function to heat the inside , while the hot surface sears the outside . Although you 're likely not going to get a perfect burger , you do get a real nice Maillard reaction on the outside of both sides ( assuming you flip halfway ) and if you play with the cooking time and power ( to reduce that rubbery texture from overcooking ) , you can get something that 's ( in my opinion ) a good 75 % - quality burger compared to a griddle or grill . I actually burned pork chops on it once , that 's how hot the surface gets . As a bonus , similar to a nice Boos block , there is a gutter around the outside and the plate is slightly concave , so the juices run off into the reservoir and the burger wo n't sit in fat during the cooking . After reading the other answers ( ElendilTheTall 's specifically ) , I would think if you combined the steaming method to cook the burgers , with the microwave browning dish to sear , you could probably get a really good result . If the burgers were fully cooked via steaming you could probably heat the dish and sear the burgers without even turning the microwave on ( except to heat the casserole initially ) . I believe Alton Brown did an episode where he talked about a specific type of brick that you can find at most hardware stores which is microwave-safe for the same searing purpose , but I ca n't find that info right now .
The easiest solution is to use different cheeses . Most commercial pizzerias , like Domino 's or Pizza Hut do not use expensive cheeses like Parmesean or fresh mozzerella ... they use crappy cheese designed to be stretchy and to stay that way when warm instead of hot . In general , they use part-skim mozzarella , which is often sold pre-shredded and in hard blocks like you 'd find cheddars . This is addressed in another answer , <URL> . Hard cheeses like Parmesan are unlikely to melt at all and , when they do , they will firm up quickly as they lose heat . You should rarely expect a hard cheese to melt well . Most of them do n't . They also lose a lot of oils when they melt , causing unsightly separation . They 're great for a burst of salty cheese flavor but they wo n't behave like Domino 's cheese . This is why it 's common to top a completed pizza with shredded Parmesan but you would n't want to use it as your primary base cheese for the unbaked pizza . Fresh cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella have the opposite problem . Their high moisture content will often make pizza unappetizingly <URL> . In contrast , the part skim mozzarella used in pizzerias is specifically chosen because it has low water content . Check out the two questions linked here for a ton more info . You should consider doing some research into which <URL> as opposed that separate into an gross mess . Note , this list , like many others includes Asiago but it 's important to notice that the list refers specifically to fresh Asiago , not the Parmesan-like aged sibling .
Per the information on <URL> , there is no mention of the pan being pre-seasoned . But there is also no mention of needing to do so . From the maintenance tab on the linked page : Before you cook Remove all labels and packaging materials . Before using your new cookware , wash thoroughly in hot soapy water using a soft cloth or sponge . Dry completely . General cooking tips Prior to each use , it is recommended to add a teaspoon of cooking oil for better cooking results . Never heat an empty utensil . Be sure there is oil , butter , liquid or food before placing the cookware on the range or burner . It is not recommended to use high heat . Cooking on excessive heat can cause permanent damage to the surface and utensil . Never cut anything in the cookware or use utensils with sharp edges as to avoid damaging the surface . Add salt to water only after is has come to a boil . Salt grain deposit on the cookware bottom will attack the metal as the heat melts it down . There is also other information about cleaning and oven use . All said , I do n't follow a set rule about seasoning non-stick cookware even though I 've often seen it recommended . But when I have heated oil in a non-stick pan it does seem to do better afterwards , especially with older pans . And I always hand wash non-stick cookware . To sum up , I do n't see how you could cause any harm by pre-seasoning the pan and occasionally reseasoning , even if it does n't need it . But this is based on my experience and I have n't used this brand . The only other thing I can suggest is to contact the company and see what they say . Since they do n't mention pre-seasoning , I suspect they will say it is n't necessary . If you do contact them , we 'd be interested in what you find out . And welcome to Seasoned Advice ! EDIT : I was assuming that the OP knew about seasoning a non-stick pan , as the question is about how to tell if a non-stick pan is pre-seasoned when new . To be very clear , seasoning a non-stick pan is NOT the same thing as seasoning a cast iron or other bare metal pan . Should you ( or anyone ) decide to season a non-stick pan , please make sure to follow a recommended procedure .
Learning through repertoire is a good way to build standard skills in nearly every discipline . If what you want is to be able to create a variety of good meals then cooking out of books will serve you well . That is n't to say that the book you choose does n't matter , of course it does ! A book full of accurate facts and procedures does not a good teacher make . Choose a cookbook that is so engrossing that you do n't mind reading it like a novel . That 's how I felt reading Bourdain 's Les Halles cookbook and I 'm sure you can find a similarly inspiring work . Understand that this makes you one who can produce recipes , nothing more . I mean this earnestly and non-disparagingly , as being one who can replicate a good recipe time and again is one who has a high level of skill . Still , most who delve into cooking and the culinary arts are rarely satisfied by this state of affairs . One desires to substitute ingredients , build on a base , even invent their own cuisine ! For that , experimentation is the best teacher . You 're going to have to start cooking boldly and failing often to achieve that . There really is no better teacher than making something completely inedible out of $ 50 worth of pork , then adding insult to injury with a fast food dinner . = /
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
The short answer is yes , you most definitely can but with a few caveats . First , if the skin has any significant amount of sugar on/in it from a glaze or cure it will burn fairly quickly and likely impart a bitter flavor before you are going to achieve the proper crisp a crackling is known for . Also , with hams , there is likely going to be a ton of salt in the skin to begin with and this is likely going to be intensified when you fry it up so be aware of that . I 've never had good luck baking pork skin for crackling since the texture is never the same and it takes a lot longer . Deep frying is a much better/authentic way to go .
Fire is typically a poor heat source for direct cooking . It fluctuates with every breeze so the heating is very erratic . It also produces a lot of soot which tastes terrible and is bad for you . When cooking on a campfire much better results are had by cooking next to the coals than above the flame . Cooking with a gas flame is more reliable of course . A couple direct cooking applications of fire in the kitchen , that I can think of are : Flambe : Lighting a sauce which contains a lot of alcohol to burn off some of the raw alcohol taste . Roasting : Putting a steaming basket over a gas flame and charring the skin of peppers or eggplant . Caramelizing : Using a blowtorch to put a crust on creme brulee or to sear the exterior of a sous vide steak . I would recommend starting with the blowtorch for several reasons : It is harder to burn your house down with a torch than with a pan of flame . Blow torches are useful for things outside of the kitchen like stripping paint or starting the grill . There is something deeply satisfying about wielding a hissing , blue , knife of fire that appeals to the caveman within . As for safety . Keep a fire extinguisher on hand . Do n't let kids or pets in the kitchen when you are playing with fire . Keep your home owner 's insurance current .
Yes , but not in shell ( they explode , often spectacularly ) . See <URL> for some more information . In general , whites are better to freeze , although you can freeze yolks as well .
end question
start question
How to make " honeycomb " less sticky ?
Remember your stages of sugar boiling and how they come out , if it 's too sticky or soft it is probably down to too low a final temperature ( wrong texture ) or more likely too much golden syrup . Be sparing with the golden syrup / glucose syrup , the sucrose will set in to hard sugars , but the glucose/inverted sugar syrup acts as a crystallisation inhibitor , vinegar can be used to similar effect ( though does not enrich the flavour so ) . It sets too , but I find too much can lead to weeping . Also , I have heard that an overly humid environment can be a problem . People used to say not to cook toffee on a humid day .
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
I would say there are 2 problems here : the lack of water , and the constant stirring . Try adding 1/4 cup of water to the sugar - this should stop it catching and burning . You should avoid stirring caramelising sugar because you run the risk of flicking bits of it onto the side of the pan . These isolated bits cook faster and thus burn , then drop into the rest of the sugar . Result : bitter caramel . Stirring also promotes crystallisation , which is not what you want for a smooth sauce . If you have to stir it , do it slowly , carefully , and infrequently - only as much as necessary to distribute the water evenly through the sugar . I would also use a sugar or probe thermometer to ensure you 're not over-cooking the sugar - get it to 350ºF , then take it off heat . This will take 6-8 minutes , and it will be a dark amber colour . Let it stand for 1 minute before whisking in your cream ( I normally gently heat the cream beforehand by the way , and add a teaspoon of sea salt to it , because salted caramel is effing gorgeous ) .
There are many " natural " or " clean label " ingredients that work as mold inhibitors . Most of them work by adding some acid and thereby creating a more inhospitable environment for mold . Some of the popular mold inhibitors ( at least is some U.S. bakeries ) are : cultured whey , vinegar , and raisin juice . I think vinegar and raisin juice are good options for home use . Vinegar Works by adding Acetic acid . The white vinegar you buy in the grocery store is typically 5 % acetic acid ( at least in the U.S. ) . To inhibit mold , the recommended amount is 0.5-2 .0 % of the flour weight of 5 % acetic acid vinegar . Add with your other liquids . Raisin Juice Concentrate Raisin juice concentrate has been shown to be effective at retarding mold and bacteria growth in bread . It works by adding Propionic acid and Tartaric acid . Further , it seems that a home baker should be able to purchase this in reasonable quantities and at a reasonable price . The recommended amount is 5-10 % of flour weight , by weight . Add with your other liquids . My personal experience is positive : I used to purchase a whole-wheat bread with raisin juice concentrate and it lasted forever . This study from the Journal of Food Science , <URL> , found very dramatic increase in shelf life . The mean mold-free shelf life of the bread containing 7.5 % water extract [ of raisins ] was 18.1 + / - 3.3 d at room temperature while the negative control was mold free for 9.4 + / - 2.4 d . The antifungal efficacy of the extracts in bread was equivalent to 0.24 % calcium propionate in 21 d of storage . Doubling the concentration of the extract did not improve the mold-retarding property in bread . The bread containing raisin paste , the percentage of which in dough was equivalent to 15 % raisin extract , exhibited a stronger antifungal activity than did the extracts in bread . Notes Both of these can inhibit yeast activity which you may need to compensate for by increasing yeast or proofing time . Sources : some personal experience , this really interesting article from Oklahoma State University , <URL> , and the study linked above .
It 's wax . Apples contain wax in their peel naturally and the amount varies between different varieties . Some do n't feel waxy at all . It is there to prevent the fruit of drying out and the industry sometimes adds wax as well ( especially to fruits that will be exported long distances ) , to keep them fresh longer . As for removing the wax , you could <URL> .
What you need , my good man , is a candy fork . Basically it 's a two-tined fork with incredibly thin tines . Dip , lift , allow excess to drip off , place on parchment ( you will get a tiny ' foot ' but this is normal ) . unless you 're talking about absolutely perfect spheres ? to my knowledge this is not doable by hand , you will need industrial machinery . and the two hemispheres method will leave you with a seam . i have heard one solution for the tiny hole left by a thin skewer is another tiny dab of chocolate and a quick blast with a hair dryer to smooth out any imperfections , but i have never tried it myself .
Again assuming you 're using the same recipe ... I do n't think you need to leap to different kinds of flours as in <URL> . You could be using the same type ( probably all-purpose ) and even the same brand , but purchased and stored somewhere else ; it 'll end up with a different moisture content , and perhaps fluffed differently , so your volume measurements might not actually end up getting you the same amount of flour . If you 're trying to follow her recipe exactly , there 's really no harm in simply reducing the flour a bit to get the texture you remember .
I believe ( although I am not sure ) that the majority of the stringiness of mashed sweet potatoes comes from the fibrous parts of the potato that are near the skin . If when you remove the skin , you remove a bit of the flesh as well , it should solve your problem .
Braising gently in milk will also , I find , help with bitterness . The radicchio becomes wonderfully succulent , very nice with a firm-fleshed fish .
As Sobachatina said , it 's cooked like many grains , and behaves very similar to rice . You could try continuing the steaming method , and if it does not get done by the time all the water has turned to steam , start it with a bit more water . Sobachatina 's suggestion of a tight lid is also worth considering , but pay attention to the pot then , so you do n't get it boiling over . An alternative is to use a boiling method . With or without toasting it first , add 3.5 parts of water to 1 part quinoa . Cook until soft , and put through a sieve to discard the superfluous water . The upside is that , unless you are using too high a temperature , there is no way to burn it .
Using a bicarbonate of Soda paste is a good way to clean the oven and does not involve any nasty chemicals . Also , as you need to clean the base of the oven , it can help if you remove the door if it is a drop down door . This makes reaching inside much easier . Most doors are designed to be removed easily . Sometimes your manual will provide instructions on how to remove the door for cleaning . Otherwise this video on <URL> may help as it covers four different types of hinge .
I had the same problem before , but I learned this great trick from Larousse : Try sprinkling slices of your eggplant with plenty of salt on both sides and let rest for about fifteen minutes . The salt will draw out a lot of water from the vegetable , making it less spongy . Then , dry off the slices before adding them to very hot oil in a frying pan . The hot oil should help make a nice sear , sealing off the eggplant , so it does n't soak up anymore oil . If you need to , turn down the heat after the eggplant is browned to let it finish cooking .
If you add too much water your jello ( jelly in some parts of the world ) will not solidify . What I would suggest is looking for a non-sweetened gelatin mix and adding less sugar to it . Alternatively you could get gelatin sheets or powder and make your own from scratch . It 's not that hard to do and you get exactly what you want .
The fourth option is the correct one . The problem is that if you start with oil in the mortar , the pestle will slip and you will not be able to properly mash the rest . What you usually do is : Wash the basil in cold water . Put the leaves on a tea towel and leave them to dry ( you can delicately pat them with another towel ) . You do n't want extra water in the pesto , so be sure the leaves are dry before starting . Traditional pesto is made with <URL> . Start with the garlic ( traditionally <URL> ) and a few grains of rock salt in the mortar . You would generally put 1-2 pips of garlic for ~ 50g basil leaves , but obviously that is up to your taste ( if you were to make Provencal pistou you would probably go for a higher garlic to basil ratio ) . I generally remove the inner part of the garlic ( the anima ) before mashing it . Now add the basil and mash them with a circular movement . You have to be quite delicate when doing this . You 'll see a green liquid forming at the bottom of the mortar . Now add pinenuts and/or the walnuts and finally the cheese . A mix of 36 months-aged Parmigiano Reggiano and pecorino ( sardo or romano ) is perfect for pesto . Finally add the extra-virgin olive oil slowly , while mixing . Put in clean pots , let it rest for half an hour , then if necessary cover with some extra oil . Whether you do this in batches or all at once mainly depends on the size of the mortar and how much pesto you are making . If you are making a big amount or have a small mortar repeat the steps for every batch ( I would wash the mortar each time , as it will be oily . Remember to dry it throughly before restarting ) . Most informations taken from : <URL> ( in Italian )
You need a sharper knife . With a dull knife , you 'll have trouble getting through the skin , and end up tearing and smashing , releasing a lot of juice . With a sharp knife , you 'll get through the skin cleanly and leave the tomatoes much more intact .
No , there are n't such cheeses . All cheeses are made from the same basic product - milk - and there are no changes to the fat happening in the cheesemaking process . Whatever ratio of saturated to unsaturated fats goes in , the same ratio goes out . There are cheeses made from milk of different animals , and they do have a different ratio of saturated to unsaturated fat : cow : 55 % saturated sheep : 65 % saturated goat : 65 % saturated As you see , the difference is very small . Besides , the majority of cheeses you get in the West are made with cow 's milk , which has the lowest saturation of the three . If this is too much for your dietary goals , then you do n't have alternatives with less saturated fat .
Forever . Honey , comb present or otherwise , does not go bad . It even acts as a preservative . The date you are seeing is solely referring to the " quality " degradation . Completely edible honey has been found in 3,000 year old Egyptian tombs .
You 'll want to temper the melted chocolate . This means holding it at 88 ° F ( 31 ° C ) while it cools until it is completely hardened , then finally allowing it to return to room temperature ( or lower ) afterward . If you temper the chocolate this way , it will be much harder and last indefinitely at room temperature . The easiest way to temper chocolate is the " seed method " , which means adding a piece of solid ( never-melted ) chocolate to the fully-melted chocolate after removing it from the heat source and stirring thoroughly until the temperature reaches 88 ° F / 31 ° C , and then keeping it at that temperature until you 're ready to use it . ( Note that this is for dark chocolate ; for temperatures for other types of chocolate and for a more detailed guide to tempering , I suggest you check out the <URL> . ) The technical explanation for this is that the temperature at which melted chocolate hardens determines its final consistency as a solid . If chocolate hardens at room temperature , it ends up forming a very weak crystalline structure that begins to melt at even the slightest rise in temperature ( i.e. in your hand ) . Allowing it to solidify at the highest possible temperature below the actual melting point ensures that it forms a denser crystalline structure and will not melt at room temperature .
There 's just no comparison between in-season , local tomatoes that you get in Italy and the supermarket crap you get anywhere else , which probably accounts for most of the difference . Your best bet is to look for heirloom tomatoes , in season . Failing that , try New Jersey beefsteak tomatoes , again , in season . Or any of the " vine ripened " tomatoes you see in fancy grocery stores , although every year those get harder and more tasteless . Finally , if desperate , and you have no choice but to use supermarket rock tomatoes , at least get plum tomatoes , which manage to retain a tiny bit of flavor . Bruschetta is just : yesterday 's bread ( ciabatta or a French baguette ) , thinly sliced , brushed with olive oil , and grilled or toasted chopped tomatoes garlic , basil , Italian parsley , and any other tasty herbs you have lying around ( Oregano ? ) The finest extra virgin olive oil in the house Salt and pepper to taste
You want to minimize gluten formation , like in making pastry . So , use a low-gluten ( pastry ) flour . That recipe uses cornstarch alongside flour , which makes sense . You also want to , as much as possible , minimize water and coat the starch granules with fat . So , you might try spinning the flour and fat in a food processor before mixing in the wet ingredients . Definitely use the brandy -- same idea as vodka in a pie crust which helps to prevent gluten formation !
end question
start question
Apple pie making ... how to add the crumble crust on top of the mound of raw apples ?
According to the crumb recipe on the Epicurious <URL> , the crumb mixture should be the texture of wet sand and then packed down on the mound of filling : 1 cup all purpose flour 1/2 cup sugar 1/4 cup ( packed ) golden brown sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon salt 6 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter , cut into 1/2-inch cubes Blend first 5 ingredients in processor . Add chilled butter cubes ; using on/off turns , cut in until mixture resembles wet sand . ( After mounding the filling in the crust , pack topping over and around apples . Bake pie on baking sheet in pre-heated 400-degree oven , until topping is golden , about 40 minutes ( cover top with foil if browning too quickly ) . Reduce oven temperature to 350 ° F. Bake until apples in center are tender when pierced and filling is bubbling thickly at edges , about 45 minutes longer . Cool until warm , about 1 hour . Serve with ice cream .
More liquid will dilute the okra 's thickening tendency . But then your dish will be more liquid than perhaps you want . You could perhaps cook the okra separately and add it right before serving . Editing to add : your other option is to skip me .
Yes , you can roast the beans some more . However the results will probably not be great . Roasting results in quite a bit of smoke . If you are going low tech , I would do it in a wok in a very well ventilated area . It 's pretty easy to set off smoke detectors . A stove top with a range hood might be good enough if you have a particularly good range hood . Outside with the wok on a BBQ is probably best . Roast over a low heat and stir continuously . You want to get the beans as even as possible , trying not to burn them . The beans will continue to roast after taking them off the heat . So stop one or two roast levels before the desired colour and tip your beans out into a colander and continue stirring to cool . The residual heat will cook the bean some more . To aim for a desired roast level , compare the current roast colour to your desired roast colour and maybe to a roast level chart . Google image search " coffee roast level chart " . Guesstimate the roast level that is one or two levels below your desired colour to stop at . Once again there will be a lot of smoke .
It actually depends on the quality of the shortening you 're able to get . You might think they 're all the same , but you 'd be wrong . When I was taught how to make pies , we used shortening , and the crusts were perfect . However , I was told that for home baking , the shortening you buy in supermarkets ( Crisco , normally ) just is n't going to cut it and to use Tenderflake ( lard ) instead . I actually verified this once and found out that he was right - using the exact same technique , the supermarket shortening just did n't turn out the way the " industrial " shortening did . The crust is always too mealy and dry and tastes " off " somehow . Unless a lot has changed in the past 5 years , lard is actually much closer to the good shortening that 's being used in bakeries . Butter would , obviously , impart a much richer flavour than shortening , but I would n't use just butter in a fruit pie . You wo n't get anywhere near the flakiness of shortening or lard . Half-and-half is a decent compromise , but the result is neither as flavourful nor as flaky as lard . So , generally , I would stick to lard . You could take plor 's suggestion and mix it with some butter , but I 've found that the flavour and texture is very good with just lard ; if you do decide to mix , be careful not to overdo it , otherwise you 'll lose all the wonderful flakiness that the lard imparts ( I 'd recommend 75 % lard ) . Do n't mix lard with shortening . That can only take away from all aspects of the quality , and unless you 're worried about nutrition ( in which case , why are you using lard at all , or eating pie for that matter ? ) then there 's absolutely no reason to " taint " the lard this way . P.S. Do n't forget to add some sugar . A little goes a long way in pie crusts .
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
Common names of plants are a very unclear matter . There are big differences not only between languages , but also regional differences within a single language . There are lots of ( closely related ) plants which are sold under the name blueberry . And probably not even the person who grew ( or gathered ) them can tell you the exact species . While it does matter when it comes to jam ( for the same reason it matters whether you use Roma tomatoes or Cherry tomatoes for a sauce ) it is highly improbable to find a source which can consistently provide you with a specific known variety . Also , you probably have to study some very specified botanical literature and be provided with parts of the plant other than the berries in order to be able to identify the type with some degree of accuracy . On the other hand , do n't let that come in the way of good jam . Blood orange marmelade may taste different than bitter orange marmelade , but both are good . The same goes for blueberries : you can use any variety , even if some of them would be a bit better on their own . What you need for a jam is a good sweetness to acid ratio , the proper amount of pectin , and as much aroma as possible . A softer texture also helps to prevent unpleasant lumps . So generally , you want to go with the ripest fruit available . They are soft , and have the fullest aroma . This is something you might want to consider with your current source of berries : maybe they 're not a special " green on the inside " variety , but only underripe . If they do n't taste very sweet , and their aroma is n't very complex , I 'd try to find other sources . Farmer 's markets and organic stores are usually able to sell much better fruits ( because they cater to a picky , price-inelastic clientelle ) , but of course they cost a lot too . Sweet fruit is always good , but you need enough sugar added for food safety . A ratio of 2:1 ( fruit to sugar ) can still be kept in the pantry , more fruit than that and you need to refrigerate the unopened glasses too . With blueburries , you 'll need to add both pectin ( to get the jam to gel ) and acid ( to get the pectin to work ) . This is the part which will vary with fruit variety : more watery types will need more pectin , and less acidic types will need more acid . If you want a good quality jam , you 'll need to do some experiments until you get the proportions right . If not , you can buy " jam sugar " or however it is called in your country - this is sugar with pectin and acid already added . It wo n't have the perfect ratio for your fruit , but it will more or less work . But then , if this quality is enough for you , you can skip buying the expensive berries and slaving at the stove , and buy manufactured jam .
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
Gluten is what makes doughs chewy , and gluten is associated with high protein flour , so you should try and get low protein ( " soft " ) flour . Also , the colder your fat ( i.e. , butter ) the flakier and crispier your crust will be . You also may want to substitute some of the butter for lard or shortening ; the lack of water in the lard will also help the crust become crispy and avoid gluten formation associated with hydration of the flour . Note that you can not substitute lard/shortening for butter in an equal ratio ; you should try and find a recipe that specifically calls for it to get the ratio correct . As <URL> noted , you can also blind bake the crust to start its cooking process ( but as <URL> warns , you may not be able to call it a " pie " after that ! ) . Finally , it may be the case that your pie filling is too moist and therefore makes the interior of the crust very soggy . I 've found that almost all good apple pie recipes call for pre-cooking the apples to remove a lot of their moisture before putting them in the crust .
The lack of vent holes would have been a problem . Vent holes allow steam to escape , reducing the amount of internal moisture . This moisture will both prevent the crust from cooking fully through , and will cause the crust to soften as after it comes out of the oven . That 's not to say that there was n't also some other problem , just this is one thing that you should correct .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
Yes , if you have access to sous vide equipment you can make them in less than a day . Here is the process I followed and it worked perfectly . <URL>
If you mean the little paper frills on the ends of the bones on a Frenched rack of lamb , those are purely decorative .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
Depends on the apple . Apples with softer skins will bake to a more even consistency , but apples with tough skin ( the ' shiny ' kinds like McIntosh or Red Delicious ) tend to get caught in your teeth and throat , and are generally a pain to eat . If you do make a pie with the skins on , use smaller pieces of apple or slice around the apples to create shorter pieces of peel . These are easier to eat and do n't get caught in your mouth as much .
The pie crust is ready to use . There is nothing in a graham cracker crust that requires baking , although a little toasting gives some color and deeper flavor . If you are putting in a filling that will not be baked ( a refrigerator pie ) , you might choose to " blind bake " ( bake without filling ) the crust for a few minutes to give it more color and flavor , but it is not required . If your filling will require baking , there is little reason to bake the crust separately .
Two things control the " sharpness " of onions : variety and age . While certain varieties of onions are sharper than others ( i.e. Reds , walla-walls and vidalias are sweeter ) , any onion which has been in storage too long is going to be sulphurous and sharp-tasting . Since it 's January now , that 's going to be pretty much all onions . Since onion sharpness comes from sulphur compounds ( as I understand it ) , the best way to sweeten onions is to release some of them ahead of using the onion . The best way to do that is : Slice the onion thinly , crossways ( parallel to its equator rather than pole-to-pole ) . Place the sliced onion in a wide bowl , uncovered or very loosely covered , in the fridge or other cold place for at least an hour and up to a day . Additionally , either vinegar or salt -- or both -- will help accelerate removing sharpness from onion . For example , for a New Year 's Eve appetizer this year I sliced a red onion in to rings , tossed it with 1/2 tsp salt and 2 tsp red wine vinegar , and left it in an open bowl on the 45F porch for 5 hours . The result was intensely sweet red onion which could then be used as a canape topping . If you 're in a hurry , though , the only way to make the onion less sharp is to cook it .
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
Your ratio of butter to cookie is probably the main problem here : using too much butter and refrigerating it overnight will give your crust the texture of ... well ... refrigerated butter . So , change the recipe and use one of the following options : Lightly soak the cookies in coffee/tea/lemonade / Cognac/whatever liquid is to your taste . Use less volume of butter and add the same volume of cookies . Powder the cookies in a blender Use a mixture of oil and butter ( take one with a neutral taste like grape-seed oil ) . Test out a few spoonfuls in some shot glasses ( 50/50 , 60/40 , ... until you get the texture you want ) You can also combine the above , but that would be riskier : change one parameter at a time ... Can I have a piece of that perfect blueberry cheesecake now ? :-)
What you describe is grill basting - where a liquid is poured onto the grill and covered ( with a metal salad bowl or a basting cover ) to more evenly cook the food and maintain its moisture . The liquid is added towards the latter half of cooking , as adding it in the first half of cooking has no real beneficial effect . Additionally , the steam will melt cheese more evenly if grilling burger patties . Typically , this liquid is a stock ( chicken or pork stock if cooking chicken , vegetable stock if cooking vegetables and beef stock if cooking beef ) or water . On a personal note , I sometimes dissolve a pinch of salt in the water if I do n't have any stock available .
end question
start question
Is there a substitute for tahini in hummus ?
Sort of . If you have sesame seeds on hand , grind some up . You could also use toasted sesame oil , and even combine it with the ground seeds . You can also use all-natural peanut butter . Do n't use mass market crap with sugar and other additives . The ingredients should list only : peanuts , salt . Obviously , this will taste like peanuts . It will still taste good in a hummus , but it will be a distinctly different hummus than with tahini .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
There is no problem at all doing this . At a restaurant where I worked , we would make up a couple pounds of butter worth of roux at a time . The main thing you want to do is use a pan with a lot of surface area , so it cooks evenly . A whisk will work fine . You do n't have to stir constantly , just frequently .
The recipes that I have seen did n't have much sugar and it is universally in the dressing . The dressings are mayonnaise based and a small amount of sugar gives them another facet to their flavor . This dressing reminds me of a simple coleslaw dressing which will include the mayo and sugar as well as buttermilk and lemon . Because the sugar is in the dressing it will apply to all the layers equally so there is no particular layer that should be sweetened more than the others . Keep in mind that this salad is southern cuisine which tends to value flavor over nutrition . Sometimes to a fault , of course . The sugar serves no mechanical purpose . It will eventually pull some the liquid out of the vegetables but , as there is so little and the dressing is not mixed in , the effect would be negligible . If you prefer the salad to be less sweet and are not worried about authenticity feel free to leave the sugar out . Alternatively if you would like to throw authenticity to the wind altogether you could leave in the sugar and add buttermilk and lemon juice to the dressing and give the salad more of a coleslaw-like zing .
+1 for truffle oil . Do n't go for chinese truffles , they are tasteless and despite their low price are still a waste of money .
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
Scottish , Use equal amounts of ginger to substitute for galangal . And yes , it is the best substitute available from your average non-Asian grocery store . If you can get your hands on dried , powdered galangal , however , you can do better . Add about half the amount of ginger , and around midway through cooking add a teaspoon of powdered galangal for every tablespoon of fresh in the recipe . The combination of fresh ginger and powdered galangal will be very close to fresh galangal in flavor . Also , if you make a field trip to an Asian market , peeled galangal cut into chunks freezes quite well .
This does n't look like a recipe for pizza dough , rather it looks more like a naan or flatbread recipe . I am not exactly sure what you are aiming for , but why not simply eliminate the egg and increase the milk ( or add water ) by a small amount to compensate for the lost moisture ?
It 's safe . All that matters for safety is that the food stays out of the danger zone ( above 140F ) . But it sounds like a pretty reliable way to overcook things . Perhaps that 's why it sounds absurd to you ? Slow cookers tend to be somewhere between simmer and light boil ( probably at least 180F ) , and there 's very little that wo n't be fully cooked after half a day at those temperatures . If you cook for days , you 'll start turning beans and vegetables to mush , and may manage to make meat tough from overcooking . So at best it 's pointless , and at worst it 's going to mess up your food .
No . Sweetened condensed milk has a 40 % sugar content . It is very sweet , suitable for desserts and such . It is entirely too sweet to substituted into a curry . The consistency is drastically different . Evaporated milk is about the same consistency as heavy cream . Sweetened condensed milk , because of its high sugar content , is more the consistency of a warm caramel . Also , they are different colors , evaporated milk is white , sweetened condensed is light brown .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
You want something hot and very slightly herby , without smoke . For heat , a moderate amount of cayenne is the easiest option . For the herby notes , I might go with something like marjoram or rosemary , but frankly given the cilantro and mint I probably would n't bother .
Yes . You can also substitute 1 cup molasses with 3/4 cup packed brown sugar + 1/4 water , or 1 cup pure maple syrup , or 1 cup dark corn syrup .
You can stuff any pepper which is large enough . Poblano are moderately spicy . You can use bell peppers , but they will not be spicy . You might want to make up for that by including some spicier small peppers in your stuffing , perhaps a serrano or a jalapeno or seventeen , depending on your personal taste .
1 ) I do not think so , the technique was described in e.g. modernist cuisine , they suggest using a ISI siphone and if I can remember correctly does not describe any other tool . Any pressure chamber would work , if you have access to one :-) 2 ) I have something like <URL> which can be charged with both soda and cream charges , that is what I woudl suggest . ( mine is not ISI ) . Think both you show will work since both charges are the same . Charge with N2O ( cream charge ) . 3 ) For the infusion part , you want pressure , look for size of the device that suits your needs . The bigger , the more you can do at the same time , but will require more charges for same pressure .
Amchur does n't give much of a flavor other than sour , at least , not in the amounts I use of it . It does have a bit of a distinctive aroma , but really , to me , it is just a fairly neutral sour flavor . The easiest , most neutral substitute would be citric acid powder . Unfortunately , they do n't usually give concentration/strengths on the packaging , but comparing Ball Citric Acid for Canning to the powdered amchur from the Indian store , it 's pretty close . I think the citric acid tastes a tiny bit lemony , but not enough to make a difference . Also , the amchur powder I buy is generally quite finely ground , and the citric acid is generally in crystals . If you are doing something like a spice blend ( e.g. , chat masala powder ) you would probably want to grind the crystals up to match the texture of the rest of the spices . Depending on what you 're making , there are quite a few substitutions , but most of them would be more obscure than ( or at least as obscure as ) the amchur , and all would be less neutral . Also , amchur is dry , so adding something liquid might affect your recipe . ( Easy to adjust if you are adding to something liquid , of course . ) In many Indian dishes , most of the Indians I know simply do use lemon juice when they want to make something sour , especially for northern dishes . This really is quite common , and nearly every Indian cook I know in the US has a large bottle of lemon juice in the fridge for every day use . If you 're making something South Indian , tamarind pulp or paste is often the souring agent of choice , but it is distinctly not neutral . It has a distinctive flavor and will also darken things ( in a somewhat yellow-orange-brown range ) . Some regions also use dried kokum fruit in the same way ( classic Maharashtrian aamti , for example ) , but I would say it is even more distinctive than tamarind , and it also will darken it ( with a dark grey-green-brown range of color ) . For both kokum and tamarind , you soak the pulp in water and add the soaking water without the pulp to the dish . You can also usually find tamarind concentrate ( a tarry paste ) but I 've never seen anything like that for kokum . One more option I just thought of is using some other unripe or sour fruit . Amchur is made by powdering dried green mangoes . You can actually sometimes find dried green mangoes at places like Trader Joe 's and if it is unsweetened , a small piece of that can certainly be used , but it seems that any fruit that is firm and sour should work , such as an unripe plum or a very tart apple . In that case , I would suggest either cooking with a small piece or two of the fruit in the sauce ( if there is one ) and removing it later or you could try to crush it and press some juice out . The problem here would be in figuring out the correct amount to add , but I think you could start from the dried-to-fresh conversion rates for herbs .
Wiki 's cited entry on <URL> is interesting . The ready-made spice blend " Herbes de Provence " did not come into existence until the 1970 's , as a product marketed by the French company Ducros . If there 's a standard blend ratio , it would therefore be what 's in the Ducros ' product - though since it is a generic term rather than a trademarked one , other manufacturers and cooks have their own recipes and interpretations . Ducros ' own blend <URL> , according to the " My French Cuisine " blog ( who also has the McCormick blend breakdown and a home-made alternative blend sourced from a French cookbook ) : Rosemary ( romarin ) -- 26 % Savory ( sariette ) -- 26 % Oregano ( origan ) -- 26 % Thyme ( thym ) -- 19 % Basil ( basilic ) -- 3 %
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
Please do not use a cooking wine . Those are awful . Pick a juice , any juice . I 'd say cranberry . You probably do n't want anything too sweet .
Flavor-wise Nicoise and Kalamatas are somewhat close , probably the closest most readily accesible substitute for most people .
end question
start question
How can I bake normally fried foods ?
I would recommend borrowing from the principles found in this post , which details how to " fry " chicken in a kettle grill : <URL> Two key takeaways here : 1 ) high heat , and 2 ) all ( or nearly all ) your food 's surface area is exposed to heated air . You 'll just replace " kettle " with " oven , " and put something under the rack on which you 're cooking your food to catch the stuff that drips away from it , and you should be good to go . It may require some experimentation to find the right mix of time and temperature for the food item you wish to cook , but it should n't take more than a few attempts to get it right , if not the first one .
Use a pressure cooker . Try for example this recipe : <URL> where dried hominy is cooked in a pressure cooker .
Surprisingly , an egg is the most difficult thing to cook . McDonalds serves a lot of eggs in their breakfast menus and they have n't found a way yet to mass prefry / prcook these suckers . So I doubt this could be done . I tried half cooking scrambled eggs before and then finishing them off later , and the result was crap at best . I doubt you can do that with non-scrambled eggs , as the yolks and whites will change physical properties when heated / cooled / reheated
You can either bake them in something , and typically be fine ( there are lots of cookie recipies out there that use them ; search on the internet for ' biscotti ai pinoli ' ) , or you can toast them ahead of time , and then encorporate them . ( often , you toast them , then mix in , and bake ) . But a word of caution on toasting them -- they burn very easily . I 've typically done it in a dry skillet , where I can keep an eye on them , and quickly get them off and to a try to cool . I seem to recall an interview with Alton Brown where he mentioned that toasting pine nuts was the number one ruined dish on Iron Chef America , because of chefs leaving them alone for too long .
Indeed , Mr. Zable actually applied for a patent -- US application no . <URL> , filed Sept 13 , 2010 . ( Of course , just because he applied does n't mean the US Patent Office will issue a patent on it . ) His process is , in essence : ( 1 ) gelling a liquid beverage ; and ( 2 ) wraping an aliquot of the gel in a raw " farinaceous dough " , selected from the group of pretzel , pizza , bread , and pasta doughs . The application says he used gelatin as his gelling agent , but the patent ( if it issues ) would not be limited to gelatin . Once wrapped , the raw snack could be fried immediately or frozen for later use .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
Normal cheese melts like that . It is made of proteins , fats , and water , and these separate when they are heated . For dipping , you need processed cheese . It has additives which keep the fat , fluid and solids mixed in a smooth mass . Also , it really helps to use very slow and even heat . This is the easy option . If you want to do it " for real " , without processed cheese , you have to make a cheese fondue . It is traditionally made with Swiss cheese ( I am fond of Appenzeller fondue ) , but you can use most types of semi-hard yellow cheese . It also contains some fluid , traditionaly white wine , and is emulsified with simple starch . It is preferable to have a special pan for this , as you can serve it heated . But if you make a big portion in a pan with a high thermal capacity , and make it immediately before serving , you can do without the special gear .
The dried powder in a can is your best bet , short of grating a fresh root . Though an overlingering burn is n't your thing , try pinch of cayenne in the wasabi mix to lend sweetness and more ka-boom . Generous wasabi and some <URL> are my favorite sushi companions .
Absolutely you can ! It 's a popular choice with Chinese and Indian flavor profiles . You can just treat it exactly like you would any other leftover rice . It 's a lovely ingredient to work with . The nutty Basmati flavor works beautifully however you choose to season fried rice .
The exact time and temperature will depend on the size of the breasts and your oven . You should always use a meat thermometer to verify that the chicken is cooked all the way through . For breasts , you want to make sure they 're around 160 F on the inside ( they 're actually safe to eat a bit earlier , but 160 F leaves you with a margin of error ) . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , you 'll need to cut them open to make sure they 're not pink on the inside , and the juices run clear . I 'd start the oven at about 375 F , and start checking on them after about 30 mins .
I posted this question in a hurry ( because as you can imagine ) , there was a lot of anxiety concerning whether it was safe to have dinner or not . It turns out that this ham is not safe ; I will quote the USDA : The plastic bone guard covering the exposed bone is used to keep the bone from breaking the outer wrap . If left on the meat during cooking , a 325 or 350 ° F oven temperature may not melt the plastic but still give off an abnormal chemical odor or taste . Cutting away the meat around the exposed area will not necessarily solve this potential food safety problem because the penetration of the chemical into the meat will be unknown . If meat is cooked in a closed container , the chemicals may penetrate the entire piece of meat . USDA advises not to eat the ham ; discard it . Source : <URL> Quite a disappointment unfortunately .
I would do two things to make them more palatable . 1 ) Boil the briefly ( 5-10 mins depending on how hard of a veg they are ) in salted water . Something like a tablespoon of kosher salt per 4 quarts water . 2 ) After they are parboiled , I then will saute , simmer , or braise ( depending on the recipe/mood/vegetable ) in a highly flavored sauce or spice mix until they are cooked . So if I was cooking the carrots and ( green/string ? ) beans and wanted to use chili powder I would chop some onion and saute that in olive oil while the other veg parboils . Then , add 1-2 tbls chile powder to the onions ( and maybe some garlic , b/c everything is better w / garlic ) and let those flavors meld while you drain the veg . Once you have the veggies drained add them to the onions and spice w / a bit of liquid ( wine , beer , stock ; maybe 1/2 cup ) and let them cook on low until they are as done as you would like them .
Bananas are imported unripe and then ripened in the country of sale . This ripening is achieved by forcing ethylene gas through the bananas in special pressurised rooms . Bananas naturally produce ethylene as they ripen , so you could just put them in a sealable plastic bag to contain that gas . Tomatoes also produce ethylene , so you could pop a couple of those in as well , but be aware that they 'll also ripen faster too .
The way restaurants do it is simple , straightforward , and also very easy to make organic by using organic ingredients . Standard 3-bowl breading 1 ) Bowl One : Seasoned flour -- flour , salt , pepper , and seasonings ( for me : thyme , paprika , cayenne , garlic powder , onion powder , and parsley flakes ) 2 ) Bowl Two : Egg wash -- Beaten egg with a 1-2 TBSP milk per egg yolk added 3 ) Bowl Three : Panko ( or other bread crumbs ) -- alternately , add some salt , pepper , and seasonings to them Procedure : Dredge the item to bread through the bowls in order , then repeat if desired to build up a thicker layer . You only need to change your seasonings to switch from breading chicken , fish , or even doing fried green tomatoes . If you make your own bread and breadcrumbs , the ingredient list will read : flour , water , milk , eggs , yeast , salt , and spices . Hard to get more straightforward than that ! It 's simple , fast , and works beautifully every time . Here 's why it 's the best way : the flour sticks to the wet surface of your item , leaving a dry , starchy surface for the egg wash to adhere to . The egg wash allows the panko to stick . For the next layer , the flour fills in the gaps between bread crumbs and absorbs residual moisture from the egg wash .
I would say no . The function of the egg in the cake is to go in raw , mix with the other stuff , and once the raw egg has penetrated and coated the other ingredients thoroughly , bind it all together with that bouncy , sticky solidified eggy property which comes into existence as the egg cooks . Cooking the egg first all by itself , then adding to a cake would be like drying some crazy glue , then grinding up that hardened crust and putting the resulting powder between two things you want to stick together . The gluing action is all over when the glue has dried .
When I was young in Asia , my mom would bake a cake on a coal stove in a cast iron pot . Hot coals were then added on top of the lid as a secondary heat source .
It sounds kinda similar to <URL> , but that is usually made with extra sweeteners added to the milk as it is cooked down . You might look at <URL> , which is a Russian food , although it looks like the cooking down is usually less than you describe - that is , it may produce a brown crust , but the bulk of the milk is perhaps still creamy in color . You could look at <URL> or <URL> , which are made by cooking milk down into a evaporated , caramelized brown sauce . It looks like both are usually sweetened during or after cooking , but since the sugar is added later in the process , with other flavorings to taste , I see no reason that sweetening might not equally be omitted if the flavor is enough for whoever is making it . An interesting sort of match comes from <URL> , which was made by cooking down whey into a brown sauce ( Norwegian <URL> and Swedish <URL> are variations of this ) - but more recently cream and sometimes milk was added to the whey for a fattier end product . I could see someone cutting out half the process by making something similar with only milk , instead of some balance of whey plus cream . As a bonus , I do n't believe these products usually have added sweetener , so that might be a closer match . Honestly , there are a lot more variants where there is sugar or other sweeteners added to the milk while it cooks down and caramelizes , or even afterwards to taste , then variations where the milk is cooked down plain . However , there 's no reason why someone might not have adapted one of those recipes to omit the extra sugar for various reasons , so go ahead and figure out which name ( or tradition ) seems most in line with what your friend makes .
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
I agree with hobodave that you 're overcooking the prawns . But , I would cook the veggies first and then let the prawns cook with them for the last 2 minutes of the veggie cooking time . One other thing I would suggest is to cut out the salting/marinade stage . The salt could be " cooking " the prawns and is most likely sucking some moisture out . You could also try reducing the amount of oil you 're using , 1 tbs in a pan should be sufficient .
Short answer : yes . Long answer : depends on what you 're cooking . Grilling some popular food items can produce cancer-causing compounds called heterocyclic amines ( HCAs ) HCAs , a family of mutagenic and cancer-causing compounds , are produced during the cooking of many animal products , including chicken , beef , pork , and fish . In January of 2005 , the federal government officially added HCAs to its list of known carcinogens . Cancer Project nutritionists determined that many commonly grilled foods contain alarmingly high levels of HCAs . This table lists the five foods containing the highest levels . ( Source : <URL> )
end question
start question
How to avoid cinnamon sludge in a beverage ?
The cinnamon " sludge " is fiber . The fiber that came from the cinnamon is soluble in water . 10 grams of cinnamon is about 8 grams of fiber ( see <URL> ) . it is safe to eat / drink ( fiber ! ) in moderate amount ( chinese cinnamon or cassia is not safe in high dose because of its toxic component called coumarin ) of course , cinnamon sticks wo n't produce so much sludge . if you use a hot drink , stir it so it does n't sit at the bottom . Ceylon cinnamon ( = " true " cinnamon ) is different from Chinese cinnamon ( = " cassia " ) and may have different properties w.r.t solubility and water . Check out your container that does n't sludge , and compare with what you have been using in your grinder .
If the dishwasher and hand-scrubbing can not remove stains , professionals sometimes use a simple solution : we apply pure bleach directly to the board and scrub it in with a stiff-bristled plastic brush . Then we allow the bleach to sit for 5-10 minutes . At this time , most stains are gone or almost gone . Then we clean the board THOROUGHLY until no bleach smell remains . Usually it takes 2 cycles in a dishwasher or hand scrubbing and rinsing several times . This method is extremely fast and effective , particularly for troublesome vegetable stains ( beets , carrots , chopped herbs ) .
Mold is growing because there 's something for it to consume , the only way to prevent it from happening is to clean your grill more effectively , or carbonize it before the fire goes out . No grill is air-tight , so even though it gets a good heat blast ( not enough to sterilize it as you may think ) , spores will get in from outside . Remember , hot air is less dense , so as the BBQ cools it will draw air in , hence the spores . Once there they thrive in the sheltered and often damp conditions in a closed-up barbecue . I think where you may be going wrong is that you close the valves after cooking . That cuts off the air and kills the fire . I leave all my valves open to keep it as hot as possible after I 'm done cooking , and it does a better job of charring all the leftovers .
I do not think that there is a better way they not to squeeze the lemon until you need them :D Regardless , if you want to do testing and are concerned about the bitter notes that develop , I recommend doing the research with grapefruit instead as it turns bitter is a matter of minutes and has a much stronger bitter flavor then the lemons do . That way you at least have a shorter turn around time .
I would halve the amount of icing sugar and substitute in cocoa powder . As long as you sift the cocoa powder well you should still have a smooth icing at the end . Provided your chocolate is n't milk chocolate you should still have a ' proper ' chocolate flavour as well .
There is nothing especially interesting going on in a hot compote . You can chill it as quickly or slowly as you want to , until it reaches the desired temperature . Food safety requires that you do n't keep it for more than 4 hours in the danger zone ( between 60 ° C and 4 ° C ) , but if it is in individual serving bowls , on-the-counter chilling should be enough . Also , do n't put large amounts of hot liquids in the fridge , you risk raising the entire fridge 's temperature to unsafe levels , and the inside of a large container wo n't cool quickly enough to leave the danger zone . If you made lots of compote at once and want it very cold , chill it in an ice water bath . The final temperature can be whatever you prefer . I eat my compote slightly colder than room temperature ( 15 ° C to 20 ° C ) . You can eat it fridge-cold , room temperature , or even hot , if it tastes better to you .
Modifying your original terms : Size : 2-3 quart/liter . I consider 2.5 quarts to be ideal . Material : Two options : hard-anodized aluminum nonstick , OR stainless-steel interior/exterior . With stainless , it should have either an encapsulated aluminum disk base or a tri-ply construction ( aluminum layered with stainless ) Bottom : Thick is good , and you absolutely must have aluminum here for conduction Handle : stainless is good , as long as it stays relatively cool . The handle absolutely must be riveted on , with thick rivets . Screws , glue , or welded handles do not last long-term . Tack-welded handles are the bane of the restaurant I work for right now ; we 've had several handles snap off in the last year . Additional things to look for : Weight : HEAVY . You want fairly thick cookware for even heating , but most of that weight should be from thickness of the aluminum disk . Design : A flared lip around the pot , to facilitate clean pouring . Shape : I 'm partial to shallow designs , which flare out at the top . Although it 's nonstick and not stainless , I love my <URL> for it 's extra-flared design . This lets it transmit heat more efficiently from the range , and allows it to safely hold a larger capacity of food . It also allows for faster and cleaner reduction of sauces . Lid : TEMPERED GLASS with a handle on top , and a flange to help seal tightly on the pot/pan . Tempered glass is very durable and lets you see the progress of your cooking without releasing the steam . The handle also remains cool , so you do n't burn yourself on it ; this is the second problem I have with solid stainless lids on many premium cookware lines ( All Clad , and most manufacturers ' tri-ply products ) .
Cinnamaldehyde , the compound that gives cinnamon its flavor , is known to cause inflammation in mucous membranes ( http://cameochemicals.noaa.gov/chemical/20036 ) . It 's also mildly water soluble . So , when you made your coffee it was probably diluted enough that it did n't cause a problem . As it sat out , it probably fell out of the solution and settled in the bottom of your cup in a more concentrated form .
Invert the bottom layer , top down , on a plate . Add the ice cream , but do not spread it to the outside edge of the cake . Top with the second cake layer , pressing gently . Then , using a sharp knife , slice vertically completely around the edge , removing the sloped edges of the cake . Surround the outside edge with a wrap of parchment paper or foil . Chill . After the cake is firm , you can slice horizontally to level the mound at the top of the cake , if you wish , before removing the paper/foil cuff .
" Fibrous " and " dry " are good descriptions for bean which have n't been prepared properly . Mostly , they have either not been soaked long enough , or have n't been cooked for long enough . Normal times for beans are about 12 hours soaking in water and another 1-3 hours cooking , depending on the desired texture . Also , sometimes beans can be cooked with about quarter/half a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda , which softens them nicely . That should be a start towards solving your problem . To answer your question , I think that white beans and pinto beans are a good start ( you can make a chili , for instance ) , and that chickpeas are also a very good starting point . Cooked chickpeas are great as-is , and can be seasoned with cumin , salt and lemon juice for a nice snack .
Milk wo n't help you - it 's mostly water , and gluten develops from flour ( more accurately , specific proteins in flour ) and water . The way to reduce gluten development is to incorporate more fat into the batter . Lipids are hydrophobic and will prevent further hydration of the glutenin . Using a lower-protein flour will also help . If you 're not already using cake flour , the reason it 's called cake flour is because of the lower protein content . That being said , have you actually tried leaving the batter coarse ? Just because the batter is lumpy does not mean that the cake will have big lumps . The entire mixture is wet , so unless you leave huge lumps of dry flour in the batter , you wo n't end up with a lumpy cake . There 's a difference between " do n't overmix " and " do n't mix " - you 're supposed to mix enough to incorporate , just do n't try homogenize it .
Three potential methods or changes you can try : soak the quail in brine for 2-3 hours before searing . You can do this in a large zip-lock sack or in a covered bowl . Make sure to store the quail/brine combo in your refrigerator during the soaking . Let quail reach room temperature before cooking . Pan-searing the quail might dry out the smaller pieces , i.e. the bony wings or legs . Try your 20-minutes cooking in a very hot oven , making sure not to burn or sear the quail too much . Similar to cooking a turkey , cover the thinner pieces with foil so they dry out more slowly . Ultimate method : use a " Sous Vide " method - you basically seal the quail and your flavorful broth in a vacuum seal bag , making sure to get as much air out as possible before sealing . Then you slow-cook the bag + contents in a Sous Vide hot-water bath . Instead of buying an expensive/French Sous Vide cooker , just follow these steps for very similar results : <URL> Note : to get a good finish , after cooking the quail to tender in a Sous Vide bath , you can sear the quail a little bit with a cook 's blow-torch ( for good presentation ) or just pan sear it quickly in a hot pan .
If you cool a pan too quickly it could deform , especially if your using a cheap pan . A cast iron pan could crack . This is most likely to happen if you dip a hot pan in cold water . If you want to get a jump-start on cleaning , de-glaze the pan with a cup of water as you would when making gravy . Pour off this liquid and set the pan aside to cool completely .
If you <URL> , you will find many , many recipes and descriptions . The basic idea is that you use a half-empty beer can as stand for the chicken , placing the chicken 's cavity on top of the can before roasting or grilling . The idea is that the aroma from the beer will transfer to the chicken , and the steam will help keep it moist . You can even buy commercial racks to do the same thing without the beer can . My personal opinion is that both of these ideas are bunk : Very few if any aromatic molecules will transfer to the chicken , and even if they do , they will not penetrate past the surface The steam will not keep the chicken moist , as the dryness of the meet is essentially a function only of the temperature to which you cook it , and very little else . If the chicken is cooked to too high a temperature , then the proteins will tighten up and express water making the chicken tough , rubbery , and dry tasting . The minimal amount of steam can not change this fact .
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
In a hot pan , the oil droplets jump off for three reasons usually : When you add oil to a hot pan that is not completely dry yet ( i.e some water present in the pan ) . This residue water will boil , turn into steam and splatter oil . When you are adding wet food to the hot oil . The water turns into steam and splatters oil . Solution : Making sure the food is fairly dry before putting in oil . E.g. drying vegetables with a paper towel . When you are turning food . Solution : as @Wayfaring Stranger said , flip to food towards the opposite end , not towards you . Another thing might be that you are using a very shallow walled-pan , but mostly , splattering oil is due to water being present .
Cinnamon adds a different spice profile than chili powder or red or cayenne pepper would . It is a common savory spice in Indian food and I believe it 's also used in savory dishes in Chinese cooking . It 's a very versatile spice :) . We also use cocoa powder in our chili as it provides a real depth of flavor ( dark bitter flavors which are quite good in chili ) . Both of these add some curiosity and difference to the chili without themselves adding sweetness . Usually they get added as a fairly safe way to add something " different " to standard chili .
To balance acidity , add sugar . It 's how most mayonnaise manages to be acidic enough to prevent bacteria growth ( pH 4.6 or lower ) , while still having a balanced and edible flavor . You might get an edible result with honey , but sugar is more of a neutral flavor , so I would use that first . Using a jigger of Dijon mustard is not beyond the pale , as well ... might help hide the acid , to a lesser extent .
I would actually recommend the opposite of what was said above . Since the meat is so thin you may have much better results pan searing it in an extremely hot pan from slightly frozen . This way the outermost layer will start to undergo the maillard reaction long before the inside of the steak reaches a medium-rare temp and will give you a better chance of preventing it from overcooking . This link provides an overview of the process for a much larger piece of meat then your using but the searing process is what your concerned most with since your steaks are so thin . You will likely have to play with the timing a little bit with regards to how frozen the steak needs to start out but I figure erring on the side of too frozen is best since you can then heat them in the oven to the internal temp your looking for . <URL>
In the star trek world you have plenty of beings with body temperatures higher or lower than humans , so if you had a being with a body temp of 79C then ethanol would work out perfectly ! However , with humans the liquid which would fit the bill of vaporizing just below body temperature would be Pentane , which not only smells bad but is also toxic . The science behind it is wrong anyway , you 'd want a liquid with a much lower vaporization point than body temperature so it would boil off quickly . If you pick a liquid that boils just below body temperature it would take some time to vaporize and you would n't have the same effect . All is not completely lost , you can still have some cool effects with liquids that are safe for consumption . What you have to remember is that the closer a liquid gets to its boiling point the more it evaporates , and any volatiles in it will tend to remained suspended in the vapor and be detectable by the nose . This is the effect you get when you sniff brandy or cognac that has been brought up to body temperature . You can savor it by holding it on the tongue for a few seconds and letting the vapors fill your nasal cavity . So all you need is some strong ( at least 80 proof ) and flavored ( or more accurately scented ) alcohol , and the right glasses . Brandy snifters would work best as they are designed to capture the vapors so they can be inhaled . You could then heat the liquid to just above human body temperature and then serve . Keep the quantities served down unless you want some very drunk guests !
end question
start question
What is wrong with my icing ?
Based on comments to the original question : It sounds like you used the wrong type of sugar . Icing sugar is also referred to as <URL> or confectioner 's sugar . From your description , it sounds like you used what we call ( in Canada ) superfine or fruit sugar ( sugar for sprinkling on fruit , not from fruit ) .
The best I can offer you comes from <URL> : The gelation of egg yolk can be partially reversed by heating after thawing . This treatment improves the functional properties of proteins . The stiffness of the gels obtained after frozen storage can be reduced by more than 50 % and become pourable at 21 ° C by heating up to 45 ° C for 1 h. Eggs do n't actually start to set until you hit 63 ° C , so if I had previously-frozen eggs , I would heat them as the above paragraph suggests . Just be very careful not to use too much heat . You wo n't get perfect eggs , but they 'll be edible .
I give my coffee maker an internal cleanse with vinegar and water once a month to avoid scale build-up . I use 1/2 cup of white vinegar plus water to make a full pot , run that through my maker two or three times , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker until there is no longer any scent of the vinegar . I clean the pot and its basket and insert once a week in the dishwasher , and wipe down the case and heating element daily . I 've been using the same drip coffee maker ( with its glass , dishwasher-safe pot ) for about five years . On those occasions when I 've run out of white vinegar , I use a tablespoon of citric acid dissolved in the first few cleaning pots of water , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker . Citric acid is just as effective as white vinegar for descaling but does n't smell as strong ; it 's also inexpensive .
I 've never used bhut jolokias but I love spicy vegetable oil . DO NOT just throw the peppers in a jar of oil . Apparently this is bad . Follow the much more helpful links in the comments that follow this and make the oil properly . Once you do this you can cook pretty much anything that needs a little ( or a lot ) of extra heat . You said you have other peppers so it might be interesting to set up a few jars with different pepper combos . Bonus : if what I 've heard of these peppers is correct , you can probably make a low grade mace this way . If you 're looking for something to do right away , I 'd mix a very small piece in some melty cheese and throw it on some chips , burritos , pizza , or anything really . Spicy cheese rocks . Good luck and enjoy .
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
If you do most of the kneading while the dough is very wet ( like Jeff Varasano recommends for his pizza dough here <URL> ) , you should be able to do most of it with even a comparatively weak hand mixer and not have too much trouble holding it steady enough ( see link - gluten IS working even though the dough is still only slightly more dry than a batter ) . That said , if you try to work with a drier dough , even if your motor can handle it ( which it likely ca n't ) , it will probably be more difficult to hold the mixer than to just knead the dough by hand .
Hard to tell for sure , but it sounds like a good sour to me . It has been my experience that sours do not always smell like yeast . Did you add a pinch of yeast in the first place when making the sour ? If not , you would be relying on nature to have any natural yeast spores within your sour , and that does not always work out that way . Either way , if you are only using the sour to impart flavour in your bread , it does n't really matter if it has yeast in it anyways , as you will add yeast for leavening purposes when you mix the bread . It has also been my experience that often a ' strange ' smelling sour has excellent flavour . Ultimately , it ca n't hurt to bake a loaf .
At Marriott hotel , where I worked for a while , we used similar flakes . Our technique was to add a good splash of boiling water first , incorporate the chocolate flakes by mixing it into a smooth paste ( more or less ) , and only then add hot milk . I guess the idea is that it is much more of a challenge to incorporate a small amount of solid into a large amount of liquid , however if you turn that solid into a paste first , its almost like your mixing two liquids . You 'll find that the same technique is used for making a bachamel sauce . For convenience sake , try using a small amount of hot milk , instead of water . Also , having your liquid boiling might help , which is hard to achieve in a microwave . e.g. when making a classic chocolate sauce which contains butter and cream , the chocolate is only fully dissolved when the liquid is boiled .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
Figs are <URL> that is , they will continue to ripen after being picked from the tree ( because they will start releasing ehtylene ) . However , contrary to other climateric fruits ( such as bananas ) this only works if the fruit is picked in the later stage of its developement . From : <URL> - Owino et al. , Plant Physiol Biochem . - 2006 The fig is a climacteric fruit and treatment with ethylene in the later part of stage II stimulates growth , accelerates the onset of the rise in respiration , induces ethylene production and promotes ripening . A typical respiration climacteric is not displayed by fruit harvested before the natural initiation of ripening on the tree . However fruit in which ripening had been initiated on the tree gave a normal climacteric rise and ripened fully after detachment from the tree . Thus in many aspects the fig behaves as a typical climacteric fruit , but as a result of its growth pattern , the ethylene production preceding ripening occur during a phase of active cell expansion . What many people suggest , is to put some olive oil on the eye of the fig . I have never done it , but apparently you only need a very small amount around the eye to hasten ripening . Here are two links to forums explaining this fig-oiling technique <URL> , <URL> Apparently this will speed up a lot the ripening of the fruits ( although some people seem to report they are less sweet ) . This works because olive oil will increase the release of ethylene from figs . From the same paper I cited above : It has been known since the 3rd Century BC that a drop of olive oil applied to the ostiole ( a process termed as Oleification ) of the fig fruit stimulates growth and leads to uniform ripening of fruits . The application of several vegetable oils such as rape seed oil , sesame oil , soybean oil , camellia oil and linseed oil also had similar effects as the olive oil whereas animal oil stimulated fruit ripening but the effect was less than that of the vegetable oils . It was also observed that refined olive oil was more effective in accelerating maturation of the fig fruit as compared to unrefined olive oil or other vegetable oils . [ ... ] A transient induction of ethylene was observed in fruit treated with olive oil , with ethylene production increasing a day after treatment and later declining
There are lots of theories about this topic . Basically , to get large holes , you want a dough that has enough air to expand greatly , enough structure to support that expansion , and somewhat uneven distribution of the air/structure to produce various size holes . Some things that will help : Relatively high hydration . It 's not strictly necessary , but it allows more random gluten connections to be made , making for a more chaotic internal structure . Hydration needs to be compared to flour gluten content . High gluten is not generally necessary , but a good bread flour will help . Nevertheless , it is possible to produce large holes in short or squat loaves ( baguettes , ciabatta , focaccia ) even with AP flour . The high protein is usually only necessary to get a high-rising loaf . Lower protein flour loaves may still have relatively big holes , but they are more likely to spread rather than rise high when baked free-form . Gentle kneading at the outset . You really only need to mix until ingredients are thoroughly combined and distributed . Extended kneading at that point is not only unnecessary , but it can encourage the initial gluten connections to be really even ( and not the random network of strands and holes ) . Instead of kneading at the outset , do stretch-and-fold maneuvers periodically during the bulk rise . They will add a lot of strength while minimally disturbing the emerging gluten networks . And they will encourage more random connections between each stretch-and-fold maneuver . Do n't skimp on the bulk rise time . This is when the big air bubbles and random gluten networks form . Many people even do this overnight in the fridge or follow the " no knead " bread recipes that just let it sit out for many hours . Do n't " punch down " the dough after the first rise . Instead , your goal is to shape the bread as efficiently as possible without destroying the random network of holes that is present . Contrary to popular belief , you do n't necessarily need to be very gentle with the dough at this phase ( though with some types of bread , like ciabatta , it can help ) . It does n't matter so much if you lose some air , as long as you are stretching the gluten to add structure . So , do n't deliberately try to get air out , but instead focus on stretching and folding over to get a taut , elastic dough in preshaping . Or , be gentle -- the dough may not rise quite as high , but it should still have large holes . If you do lose some air during shaping , do n't skip a bench rest . A bench rest essentially allows another " stretch-and-fold " exercise that adds strength . Preshape the dough until you can feel it become a bit taut . Then cover the dough and wait 10-15 minutes . Then do the final shaping of the dough , being sure that the surface is taut , which will allow the strongest final rise and increase oven spring . Again , as long as your yeast is strong , the big holes will return even if you lose a little air here . In most cases , being gentle and " trying not to disturb the bubbles " will actually result in less of a final rise and therefore smaller bubbles in the final loaf . Use any techniques that will increase oven spring . Anything that gets you a bigger loaf means more room for the bubbles to get bigger . That includes : steaming the oven , baking on a preheated stone , slashing the loaves properly right before the bake , baking on high heat ( at least for the first 10 minutes or so ) , etc. .
To expand on Jolene 's box idea , I 'd recommend : shirt boxes ( talk to a local department store if you 're not planning on buying a bunch of shirts ) pizza boxes ( again , talk to a local store about getting some ... likely get the smallest ones you can , such as if they have ones for a few leftover slices as opposed to for a whole pie ) restaurant takeout containers ( depending on the size of the cookies ... talk to a local chinese carryout or similar ) Some cake and candy supply stores will sell a variety of box sizes as well . I 'd also agree with irwinners in recommending a fan -- I ca n't quantify the exact speedup , as it 's affected by ambient humidity , temperature , airspeed and such , but a box fan near the cookies ( I use it to suck air over the cookies , not blow , as I do n't have a good way to dust the inside of the fan without disassembling it each time ) will help to crust up the icing to make it a little more sturdy .
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
You already have mentioned the primary reason for adding the flour : to thicken the chowder . The author of this particular recipe has added it to the recipe while you are sauteeing the aromatics , I infer . This creates , in essence , a quick roux , cooking some of the raw taste out of the flour , and helping ensure that you will not get lumps . You could certainly thicken the chowder later with a flour slurry , for example , but this method is convenient and effective in this type of recipe .
If you 're not talking about very much water getting into the bowl , then these techniques should help . Remove the bowl of chocolate from the heat source . For every ounce of chocolate , add one tablespoon of one of these : warm water , melted butter , vegetable oil , hot milk/cream . Stir or whisk until smooth . Add a bit more liquid if needed . Use the repaired chocolate for sauce , frosting , or a batter ( like for your brownies ! ) . It wo n't work well for coating candy . You may also want to check out <URL> on how to melt chocolate without getting it wet .
130 degrees is certainly the temperature to aim for , I 'm thinking that it 's the pan sear that did it . 1 minute in a pan is actually quite a bit for a thinner steak ( at 6 ounces I 'm thinking yours were maybe 1/2 - 3/4 inch ) , certainly enough to add 10-20 degrees or so to the steak 's temperature and make it medium well . As for how to avoid it there 's a few things : Get a thick steak : a thick steak can take a minute in the pan without cooking much more Cook to rare : if you want to use a thinner steak cook it to 115 or 120F instead of 130F , that way the sear will bring it up to the perfect temperature Use a torch to brown it : A chef 's torch would give a good , quick sear without cooking the steak as much as a hot pan Sear the steak first : it 's not as good as searing after , but then you will get your perfect temperature Cook the steak , then let it cool , then sear it . Your steak will only overcook if the temperature goes over 135F
Per NC State 's Extension 's <URL> ( some emphasis added ) : Pickles or sauerkraut mold during fermentation . Answer : Unsafe -- microorganisms are growing improperly . Possible reasons Fermentation temperature was above 75 & deg ; F. Too much salt was used , not allowing adequate lactic acid production . The cloth on top of the kraut was not kept clean during fermentation ( may need to be replaced after skimming ) . Per Penn State Extension 's <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Do not taste it if you see mold on the surface , feel a slimy texture , or smell a bad odor . Their <URL> says : To avoid surface mold growth , keep the cabbage submerged at all times by covering it with a plate just small enough to ft inside the fermentation container or with two or three clean quart jars filled with water . An acceptable alternative is to fill a large , sealed , food-grade plastic bag containing 4 1/2 tablespoons of salt and 3 quarts of water . Again , no indication of acceptable types of mold . I can not endorse the existing answers which indicate that mold is an acceptable part of the saurkraut making process , unless credible science based evidence is presented , from reputable sources such as University Extension Centers or , better yet , peer reviewed journal sources .
A couple of things will help give you smaller holes : Keep the hydration reasonably low ( say , 60 % with American-style bread flour ) . Use some oil or butter . Try 10 % ( baker 's ratio ) . Knead very well , something like 10 -- 15 minutes in a stand mixer . After the first rise , normally you try to be gentle , and not press out all the air . Do n't . Instead , press it out . Bake in a moderate ( say , 350 ° F ) oven . You do n't particularly want much oven spring here . For even finer texture , part way through the second rise , you can press it out again , and let it start a third rise ( but not to double ) . Also , adding some whole wheat or rye flour will give a denser crumb . With different flavor , too , of course .
If you 're worried about the sugar not dissolving , you can add golden syrup to the thawed sorbet . It will also make your sorbet softer . I 've only tried making sorbet a couple of times but when I used golden syrup , its consistency was softer than when I used sugar .
Based on comments to the original question : It sounds like you used the wrong type of sugar . Icing sugar is also referred to as <URL> or confectioner 's sugar . From your description , it sounds like you used what we call ( in Canada ) superfine or fruit sugar ( sugar for sprinkling on fruit , not from fruit ) .
end question
start question
How to season iron cookware on gas stove ?
I strongly advise against doing it . I tried stovetop seasoning at home and got terrible results . A stove gives you hot spots - on gas , this will be the ring where the flame touches the metal . The temperature of the metal in this hot spot is way too high , and the oil burns instead of polymerizing . You get some oil-charcoal in this place , which does n't have non-stick properties , and flakes off after a few uses . Outside of the hot spots , the temperature is not high enough . The oil does n't polymerize thoroughly , and forms a sticky paste instead of a smooth one . Your food will stick to these parts of the pan even worse than to the charcoaled parts . Conclusion : use an oven . If your oven is too small for a pan ( I only have a toaster oven , 30x30 cm , and my pan + handle is way too long even for the diagonal ) , leave the door cracked and seal the crack with alu foil . This is not very energy efficient , but you only do it once per pan . It worked for me , and I got a real , non-stick seasoning after multiple failures on stovetop .
For hard , chemical-resistant surfaces such as marble , bleach or peroxide cleaners will help . On things like counters , pots and pans , a Magic Eraser will often take off the stain . Sometimes a harsher abrasive like Comet or Barkeep 's Friend will be needed . Softer or porous materials , including cloth and many plastics often CAN NOT BE UNSTAINED . In my kitchen we treat turmeric like a dangerous chemical -- isolate , contain , and plan ahead to limit exposure . It 's just that destructive . You might as well tie-dye or bleach white any clothing you get turmeric on ; it India it is used as a dye for saris because it will semi-permanently tint cloth . You can brush off the dry powder harmessly , but when it is moistened and allowed to sit for a moment , the color is pretty much permanent . Edit : UV + peroxide : I saw a patent for removing turmeric stains from upholstery using UV light and hydrogen peroxide . You might try soaking fabrics in peroxide or Oxyclean ( which uses peroxide ) and leaving then out in the sun . Ca n't hurt right ? Edit : strategies to manage turmeric without making a mess Plan ahead where you 'll use it , and which utensils and vessels will hold it , so you do n't mess up anything you do n't need to . Re-use already turmeric-stained items so you do n't wreck anything new Mortars and pestles , tupperware , wooden and soft plastic utensils are a lost cause . At least the stain is purely cosmetic ? ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS wear an apron . Keep spilt powder dry ( it wo n't stain ) and brush it off with a paper towel into the garbage . Brushing away promptly keeps you from inadvertently spilling liquid on it , or wiping it with a wet towel during cleanup . That is , unless you want a neon-green counter and towel ? Whenever you spill something containing turmeric , promptly wipe it off , to reduce staining . Hard ceramic and porcelain are immune to staining unless the surface is rough . Try to use these for storage . Glass will stain . Stainless steel is resistant but not immune . With these strategies , I find I can use turmeric regularly without problems .
I do n't think you will hurt the pan , cast iron skillets can take a lot of heat . I think the biggest risk is that you are building a kind of dangerous tower . If you were to somehow knock it over you could hurt yourself badly .
That 's your meringue weeping . You could either make a very unstable meringue , which will weep uncontrollably , or you can replicate the effect with caramelised sugar - the latter is probably better for consistency and not-having-a-sloppy-mess-on-top-of-your-cheesecakeness .
I will skip everything that does not work on an induction range , as it is pretty obvious when you purchase cookware whether it is marked as suitable for induction or not . The benefit of induction is an immediate start and stop of energy transfer , from the point of view of the cook . There are other benefits , like safety , but we focus on cooking here . For a two-hour stew , it really does n't matter whether you use induction or anything else . Material-independent Your cookware should really , really match the size of the induction plates , as all induction stoves check the flow of current and disable the induction plate , if there is something wrong . You can use larger cookware , but this increases the uneven heating . So , buying a full set of cookware is often a bad idea , you will always end up with something that does n't quite fit . So triple-check the diameter of your induction plates with the cookware . ( Also , you always end up with something that you never use in such a set and with one particular pan that you always use and that is always dirty when you need it . Match the cookware with your cooking habits and servings . ) Stainless steel For stainless steel , there are three available bottoms . The least expensive stainless steel products will be usually made out of type 3xx series with nickel , have no core at all and will not work on induction anyway . Cookware out of 4xx series stainless steel will work on induction , but this cookware is not as resistant to corrosion . I do not recommend either cookware . The mid-range items will have a noticeable disk attached to the bottom of the cookware . This is a layer of magnetic steel and a slice of aluminium . Some manufacturers put a thin-layer of copper in there too . This is just marketing and has no noticeable effect . If it 's a noticeable disk on the bottom , avoid it - it will work , maybe you wo n't even notice anything bad , but you will lose the benefits of the induction . Then you have the standard sandwich bottoms . The inner layer is full 18/10 stainless steel , while the outermost layer is 18/0 magnetizable stainless steel and the middle layers are made out of aluminium , to distribute the heat . This is a sandwich bottom with an aluminium core . Again , some manufacturers will declare their core as being made out of 5 or more layers of aluminium , but this is again just marketing . Aluminium core is okay . This is the choice if you do n't want to waste money , but do need to be price-conscious . Finally , you have sandwich bottoms with a copper core . They are like the standard sandwich bottoms , but with a copper core between two aluminium layers . The mean thing is though now - manufacturers are smart , so they often make a standard sandwich bottom with a tiny layer of copper . This is not the same as a real copper core though . If you want to reap most of the benefits of an induction stove and want stainless steel products , you need to get something with a copper core . Again , it is completely fine to get other stainless steel products that are suitable for induction cooking . Cast-iron Most cast-iron cookware producers will warn about scratching , because cast-iron will never be as flat as a steel/aluminium bottom . If you are worried and must slide the cast-iron cookware on an induction stove , there is a simple solution : parchment paper between the stove and the pan . Otherwise , there is nothing special about cast-iron on induction .
I 've got a 6 burner cooktop with a 16k , 3 12k BTU burners , and two smaller burners . My standard household gas line can supply at least 5 of the 6 concurrently without problem ( have n't had occasion to use all 6 at once yet ) . The gas line feeding it is the same size as the rest of the gas lines in my house . Also , according to the installation instructions , the input gas line must be the same diameter or larger than inlet line of the appliance . Inferring from that , I 'd say it is going to be dependent on the inlet size of the stove you select . I do n't believe line pressure will be a problem .
Make sure you flip it reasonably frequently ; that 'll actually make it come up to temperature faster inside , so the outside wo n't have as long to burn . Also make sure you have n't made your patties excessively thick . 10-15 minutes on medium sounds like a fairly long time for normal sized burgers , so possibly yours are on the thick side . If you do really want thick patties , you 're probably better off using a more gentle cooking method like the oven for some of the time . You can bake until nearly done , then sear to finish , or start with a sear then bake til done . Beyond that , if it 's burning on the outside before it 's done on the inside , the normal fix is to simply reduce the heat , so you cook more slowly , giving the heat time to reach the center without burning the outside . But at 10-15 minutes already , maybe you do n't want to go much slower !
Where do you live ? European Pyrex is made from borosilicate glass , the same as in laboratory 's equipment ; American Pyrex is made from common soda-lime glass . If you are in America , do n't bother trying it at all ; soda-lime glass is sensitive to thermal shock . Even though it 's tempered for kitchenware , it is nowhere near good enough for the burner . In Europe , you could take your chances if you have a bowl you do n't mind risking . However , there is still a significant chance that it will break on the burner some day . While I think that they use the same raw material for both kitchen dishes and laboratory test tubes ( which are obviously OK on a gas burner ) , kitchen stuff is much thicker . This makes it much more likely to break under thermal expansion . If you decide to make the experiment with a borosilicate Pyrex , take care to warm it gradually , starting with a small flame , and do n't pour cold ingredients into it . Proceed at your own risk . And ask yourself if you really have no pots better suited for the task .
Hello <URL> , it is perfectly safe to use stainless steel wool on a Vitreous enamel . I presume that the cast iron skillet has a Vitreous enamel finish . The reason is simple : Vitreous enamel is essentially a type of ceramic and has a hardness of around 5-6 on the <URL> . Steel has around 4-5 on the same scale . This means that generally , you can not damage it with the steel wool . Also no not confuse the " grit " of the steel wool with its hardness :P The only thing that will happen is that the enamel will get very small scratches and that things will stick a bit better in them . You can get rid of most of them with a good polishing compound if they disturb you to much . Personally I would advise you " not to need " to clean it with steel wool in the first place , but is something burned up badly and you do not have heavy cleaning agents nearby steel wool is an acceptable solution . If it is just for cleaning leftovers , usually soaking in soap water and a hard plastic brush does a very good job as well . Remember that even thou Vitreous enamel is very hard and durable it may be damaged by overheating or crack if dropped .
Picking a tomato which is individually ugly is n't going to help you . It 's still the same variety and grown , stored and shipped under the same conditions as the other tomatoes in the pile . Try looking for a store ( farmers ' and ethnic markets are good for this ) which has a whole bin of ugly tomatoes ; those are a different variety and/or handled differently . Heck , here in California , there 's even a hybrid brand which is marketed under the name " Uglyripe " , which is quite tasty . Also , just " ugly " is n't a sufficient description . What you 're looking for is irregularities in color , shape and size . Bruising , blemishes , wormholes and brown streaks do n't indicate a better-tasting tomato , just one which has been abused .
Last evening , I left one empty ( but dirty ) sauce pan unattended on the induction stove top as the dish washer was full . The stove was turned off , but dirty as well , and the pan was slightly touching the controls . During the night , there was a small power outage ( 2 computers were powered off this morning while one was n't ) and apparently , that was enough to have the stove turn on by itself , start cooking and burnt the left-over sauce completely black . Moral of the story : Even when you 're tired after a late meal : clean the stove before going to bed . Leave dirty pots in the sink and not on top of an induction stove !
Make sure food does n't stay in the very bottom part for long enough to burn on . The flared sides and narrow bottom of these pans tend to concentrate heat at the bottom , and burn on food more easily than flat-bottom saucepans and frying pans . Once food is burned on , there is no way to scrub it off without also removing the nonstick coating . It only takes one batch of fried rice or browned onions to permanently wreck the pan . Finally , stir-frying involves a lot of vigorous motion with utensils , which rapidly wears out nonstick layers . With nonstick woks , it is simply a matter of time before they are ruined . My suggestion is to replace your teflon wok and kadhai with ( respectively ) carbon steel and cast-iron equivalents at the earliest convenience . Woks and kadhais are designed for high-flame cooking , and if you reduce the heat to protect cookware , then the food wo n't get browned fully . With these materials you can use full heat without ruining pans or releasing toxic chemicals ( from overheated Teflon ) . Cleanup is simple : just rinse out , scrape off burnt bits , wipe them down with a paper towel , and season with oil . Finally , wooden or silicone rubber utensils are the best for a nonstick wok or kadhai ; they wo n't scrape off the nonstick layer unless used very roughly , andthey can stand the heat without melting . Normal plastics ( particularly polyethylene or polypropylene ) tend to melt , and metal will scrape up the nonstick coating .
It is not inherently unsafe , but it may not be something you want to do for other reasons . The main reasons not to store food in cast iron are : Foods , especially acidic foods , may continue to react with the iron , developing off flavors Moisture encourages cast iron to rust It is not good for maintenance of your pans seasoning , which is part of what makes cast iron pans so desirable for cooking Many cast iron skillets do n't have a lid , which may be desirable to protect the food from drying out , getting odors and off flavors from other items in the refrigerator , or contributing odors to the other items in the refrigerator . This one , of course , applies to any pan . Note : we have had extensive discussions elsewhere ( see for example , <URL> , and the many links within ) . Putting the food hot into your refrigerator may not be the best practice ( it is more ideal to cool it quickly , in a shallow dish in an ice water bath ) , but putting it into the refrigerator still somewhat hot is certainly better than simply leaving it out on the counter until it is cooler then putting it into the refrigerator . Per the <URL> ( thanks to <URL> for the link to the source material ) : Hot food can be placed directly in the refrigerator or it can be rapidly chilled in an ice or cold water bath before refrigerating . Cover foods to retain moisture and prevent them from picking up odors from other foods . A large pot of food like soup or stew should be divided into small portions and put in shallow containers before being refrigerated . A large cut of meat or whole poultry should be divided into smaller pieces or placed in shallow containers before refrigerating .
I would never leave it unseasoned . Carbon steel rusts . If you just cook with sufficient oil , and let it cool down with the oil still inside , and then clean gently ( preferably without any soap ) , the inner bottom will indeed session itself with time , as tfd mentioned . But the rest of the pan will be exposed to the air and will create a layer of rust . If you do n't use it frequently enough , or if you prepare acidic food in it before it has gathered some seasoning ( and most vegetables are acidic ) , you will get rust on the bottom too , before seasoning has had time to build up on its own . Ingesting rust is not an immediate health risk , but it is better to avoid it . Our bodies were n't designed for it , and you might end up with too much iron in your diet . It is also porous , so the pan would be hard to clean well . And it looks really shabby to have a rusty pan in the kitchen . And if this is your first " normal " pan after years of non stick , you might be amazed at the amount of oil needed to prevent food from sticking . It looks terrifying to our modern " fat is bad " eyes . And you still have to be careful , despite the oil . With time , you will learn to cook the right way , but having it seasoned first certainly helps . There is no law requiring you to season , but to me , the above reasons are enough to always season .
I use the same hole if what I am checking is large , like a loaf of bread , and I do n't want to poke it full of holes ... although with my instant read thermometer , the hole is not particularly large . If the hole is a large proportion to the item ( big hole in the side of a cookie ... I know , absurd , but you get the idea ) where you think heat can run down that tunnel you 've made , then be concerned , but I ca n't imagine any situations where it is likely that the thermometer hole is going to let enough heat in to alter the cooking . I CAN imagine a situation where a thermometer in place could help transmit heat to the center and make it , potentially , cook quicker . We used to put a large nail in the center of a potato that we were baking in the coals of a fire so that the steel would help transmit heat to the center of the potato to make sure it got done evenly , but I do n't know how much of a difference even THAT made .
First of all , people indeed often add some seasoning in the beginning , but are usually careful with the amount , especially with salt . Flavor-wise , you could add it at the end , after the reduction and be fine . However , salt can also affect the process of cooking . For instance , it can draw moisture out of some vegetables when frying them first , meaning that they will be cooked a bit faster . That is why some salt can be added at the beginning . At the end , after the reduction , you should taste and add some more seasoning , if needed .
I agree with @jwenting , 5-7 minutes in boiling water is the way to go . Remember to always put the eggs in cold water , if you put them in hot water you risk cracking the shell , especially if eggs are cold . Also , to avoid premature cracking of the shell , that may leave some egg white leaking out , add a spoon of vinegar ( should work with lemon juice too ) to the water .
There is no difference in food taste when cooking using gas or electric . Gas burns pretty cleanly so is not going to leave a flavor residue you could detect . Cooking over flame as in a barbecue or a pot over a campfire does change the flavor because of the smoke , that 's the only case I can think of where the heat source can change the flavor of the food .
A cappuccino is probably not what you want to try latte art on . The amount of froth in a cap will probably cause the milk to be too thick to pour with . You want to start with your milk texture . You want stretch the milk and texture it so that it is suitable for a latte or maybe even a flat white . Correct micro foam will be integrated with the milk . It wo n't float on top . The surface will appear shiny and it will have the consistency of cream . For a free pour this is really important . Crema can also be your enemy . If your beans are too fresh , it can be a bit difficult to cut through . You can swirl your cup . You can also break it up a bit with your milk since you wo n't start pouring immediately . Once you can get your milk texture right , a good way to start is with some basic shapes . It can be useful to have a jug with a pronounced spout . 1 ) A basic dot in the middle of your cup . As you get to the top of your cup , tilt your jug a bit more to let the foam push the crema out of the way . 2 ) Basic heart . Same as the dot . But instead of just stopping the pour , push through the dot and slow the pour down quickly at the same time . 3 ) Layered dot . Starts like your basic dot . But as you increase the pour rate , wiggle your jug left and right smoothly . This will pull coffee in between the layers of the milk . Then just stop pouring . 4 ) Layered heart . Same as the layered dot , but pull through the dot like the basic heart . 5 ) The Rosetta . This is probably the iconic latte art pattern . This uses the skills of your layered heart . But you start your pour from the back of the cup with relatively large wiggles , then start to pull back and make your wiggles smaller . This gives you the curls at one end of the cup and the tapering " leaves " at the other . To finish , pull through like a heart . Other patterns are then variations on these themes . Like the tulip , swan , multiple hearts , multiple rosettas . And some combine free pouring with a bit of etching eg . smoking dog , pac man . Edit : This is how I learned to froth milk for a standard jug . The jug should be at an angle so that you can form a whirlpool . The tip of your steam wand should be just under the surface of the milk . Then turn on the steam . So I stretch very quickly and then spend the rest of the time texturing . You should n't be moving your jug up or down very much if at all .
Kosher salt and a small amount of vegetable oil . Scrub the pan with the salt on a rag or paper towel , if there are stubborn bits mix a couple drops of oil with the salt , wipe dry with clean towel . If you use a wet method to clean the pan re-heat it after cleaning to make sure it is completely dry before storing .
end question
start question
How do you create and store bacteria cultures for fermenting ?
Unless you 've got the time and resources to set up your own biology lab , you 're not likely to have much luck raising your own bacterial cultures from scratch . You 'd probably need growth mediums suited to particular strains of bacteria and strict isolation between them to prevent other opportunistic bugs from taking over . If you really , really want to try , you might have better luck asking on <URL> . Fortunately , a lot of pickled-vegetable recipes ( such as <URL> , or <URL> ) do n't bother with an initial culture . This is what 's called a " wild fermentation " , meaning that you 're culturing with whatever bacteria happen to float their way into your fermentation vessel . If the initial culture is present , it 's there to kick-start the process , or to obtain a very specific flavor profile by using a precise blend of bacterial strains . In those cases , you 'll want to buy , because it 's practically impossible to invite only a single strain of bacteria to the party . Even if your kitchen is scrupulously clean , exposing your food to open air also quickly exposes it to bacterial colonists that you ca n't control . Other fermented foods can be started from a purchased culture , or they can be inoculated from a sample of active culture in a purchased food . For example , <URL> as a starter for fermenting your own , and you can cultivate the scoby from a store-bought bottle of kombucha to <URL> . With some care and maintenance , you can make some of these cultures <URL> . The cultures that give sourdough bread its distinctive flavor are sometimes kept this way . If you need a specific starter for your recipe , you 'll just have to pony up and purchase it . Depending on the final product , you might be able to use a different starter and wind up with a similar end product ( see <URL> ) but it would be inadvisable and possibly unsafe to deviate from your directions .
I 'm not sure how possible it is to give good and definitive advice on how to store fruits and vegetables generally . The best ways to store food will often depend on the specific kind of food and the purpose you intend for it . So take the following advice as more of hint , as it may be very bad advice for a specific fruit or vegetable . Generally speaking most kinds of vegetable store well in the fridge or on the shelf for few days uncut . How well they keep on the fridge or shelf after you cut them it depends a lot on the actual vegetable . For example , bell peppers seem to do OK in a bag in the fridge when cut , an onion is fine if you cover the cut side in plastic wrap , while a cut potato will dry out . You can freeze pretty much any vegetable , just check the frozen goods section of your grocery store , and safely store them frozen for years . While you probably would n't want to use them as a substitute for uncooked fresh vegetables ( eg . in a leafy salad ) , they can usually be cooked just like you would as if they were fresh . You may not even need to defrost them first , often you can just substitute frozen vegetables directly . Fruits for the most part a different matter . How best to store them , especially when cut , depends a lot on the particular fruit . Generally speaking after being cut most fruit needs to be used soon after or becomes useless for most purposes . You can freeze fruit and this will keep them from spoiling , but most fruit does n't hold up well in the freezer . For a lot of purposes , what you get when you defrost fruit is n't a good a substitute for fresh fruit . While most vegetables will have something at least resembling their original shape and texture after being frozen , many fruits end up like mush . Frozen fruits are mainly only useful for things like filings and jam . When freezing things , fruit or vegetables , always use an air-tight container . In the freezer air flow is your enemy . Foods exposed to the air will soon become freezer burnt . You 'll want to prepare the fruits and vegetables , removing skins , seeds and other inedible or undesirable parts , as doing so after freezing will be harder . You 'll also want to label them with their name and when you froze them . Since you can keep them for years , you can end up with a collection of mystery foods in your freezer if they 're not labelled . Two other possible alternative for longer term storage of fruits and vegetables are dehydration and canning . What you can do with the food after preserving them these ways is generally more limited than freezing . Dehydration often lets you eat the dried food as-is , while canning lets you preserve food in a already cooked form . You can also pickle many vegetables ( and some fruits ) but this essentially turns them into a different kind of food .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
You probably misread the recipe . It 's suggested that dry beans soak overnight so that they cook in a reasonable amount of time the next day ( unless you use a pressure cooker . ) There is no need to soak barley , pearled or not . It 's my guess that you mistook the bean soaking for barley in the recipe . That , or it 's a typo .
In order to store yeast for that period of time it has to be make inactive , and the process to do that yourself is challenging , time consuming , and you 'd need specialist equipment . It would be prohibitive in both time and cost , far above just buying yeast . You can of course make a starter by mixing equal amounts of flour and water plus some yeast , this will keep the yeast alive by feeding it , and you can keep it alive indefinitely by feeding it once per week . You add some of the starter to your bread and it supplies active yeast .
I recommend ( and use ) a <URL> . Not only are they fairly tough and sharp , you can adjust the blade to the depth you need ( you do n't want to cut too deep ) . And the blades are cheap to replace ... As others have noted in the comments , be careful with this as you would with any knife : the blades may be small , but they 're quite sharp .
The original pasta recipes of old were simply wheat and water . Eggs or oil ( the two most popular " water substitutes " in pasta recipes ) are not at all necessary to make pasta dough , but they will have an impact on how the dough turns out . Now , it 's hard to give a firm " this is the best way to do it " answer , because everyone has their own preferences on pasta doughs , but you will tend to find that egg-based pastas are a litte more " creamy " than water-based ones . In my experience , they work fairly well for rolling and cutting , but seem to be a little to " sticky " when extruding . When I 've tried it , the dough has had some issues with sticking to the various extruder plates , causing the pasta to tear . Now , I have not tried it myself , but I 've heard that water-based pasta doughs to much better with extruders/presses , because you can control that " stickiness " a little better and make a slightly drier dough , which comes out much more smoothly . I 've been meaning to try it myself , but have not gotten around to it yet ( I really love the flavor of egg pastas , so I tend to just make those and cut them , instead :) ) .
I ca n't speak specifically to the shelf life of salami , especially considering all of the factors that come into play ( source , type , age , storage , etc. ) , but when dealing with meat in general , you should never eat it if it smells or tastes " off " . Smell is really the most reliable means of determining whether or not meat is still good - far more reliable than the use-by date . It 's unusual for meat to smell or taste sour as a result of foodborne bacteria ; sourness is more likely to be due to rancidity of the fats , which is of course equally dangerous , albeit in a different way . Oxidation is very likely if the meat was not properly wrapped and/or stored in an airtight container . Of course , many people have trouble telling the difference between spoilage due to rancidity and spoilage due to bacteria , and so what you 're perceiving as rancid ( sour ) may really be bacterial spoilage . Either way , if it tastes off , it 's spoiled ; do n't eat it .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
Take them to a professional . Nothing you can affordably buy in your home will work well . Personally , I do n't buy quality serrated knives . I buy cheap and replace when dull . Only my normal blades are quality , and these I have sharpened yearly .
Have you tried using a marshmallow recipe that is only made from gelatin and cooked sugar syrup ( sugar , water , and light corn syrup to soft ball stage , 240 degrees F ) ? I have made various piped marshmallows that will hold swirly shapes using this type of marshmallow recipe . It is a bit more stable than the egg based recipes . The most important thing is to make sure that the marshmallow mixture is whipped to a nice fluffy , shiny , smooth stage ( about 7-10 minutes on high speed ) and piped very quickly into whatever form you want before it sets up using a large round tip . Timing is of utmost importance here and you may lose some marshmallow during this process at home . I would also recommend piping onto a silpat ( silicone ) lined sheet tray or a piece of wax paper that has been lightly dusted with a mixture of cornstarch and confectioner 's sugar .
With thin cuts of meat ( like chicken breast or a steak ) , you want to make sure you put the thermometer in to the thin side of the meat so that the whole thermometer goes in to the meat , rather than putting it in through the " top " so that only a little of the thermometer is in the meat . If you 're putting it in the top , you can get wildly inaccurate temperatures . Also make sure that the thermometer is n't touching a pan , exposed to air , or touching a bone . Any of those can have a negative effect . Also , you only need to cook chicken to 74C / 165F . That may be part of the problem in your case . You may also want to check that your thermometer is accurate . You can stick it in boiling water to check that it reads 100C / 212F ( assuming of course it goes up that high ) .
You would use raw corn . You can either grill it on the cob , or use a <URL> .
Apples are best stored at 0 ° C ( 32 ° F ) at 90 % humidity . If you do n't have a cellar , you 'll have to try to recreate that environment as best you can . The closest you can come in most small apartments is actually a plastic bag with some holes poked in for ventilation ( to prevent excess moisture from building up ) . Then put that in the refrigerator to get close to the correct temperature ; the best location is the vegetable crisper where you have control over the humidity . Do n't overpack them , though - about 80-90 % full is the densest you should go . Also be sure to pick only the best apples you can find if you plan to store them long-term . Over-ripe apples will obviously not last as long , and any bruising or piercing will speed up the decay significantly . Edit : If it 's a large number of apples then you can store them in a crate , which provides adequate ventilation , but good luck getting that into the refrigerator . I would still separate them into plastic bags , put whatever I could in the crisper , the rest in the fridge " proper " , and put out any that I intend to consume within a week or two in a regular fruit bowl out in the open . If that 's still not enough , then you probably need to accept that small apartments are n't very well-suited to storing very large amounts of fresh food ; just because they 're easy to get , does n't mean it makes economic sense .
That 's all there is to it . It seems you already know this , but just to be sure , be aware that " blackened " refers to the spice and not any burning or charring that is done . Burnt spices taste horrendous .
Personally , I 've never made a dish that required greasing of the crockpot - even if it called for it , I 've ignored that step and had no problems . I can only imagine the step is added to ensure nothing sticks - but my crockpot ( and all others I 've seen ) are glazed porcelain or ceramic , and the recipes always include a liquid of some kind , so I do n't think that 's going to be a problem . If I were going to grease it , however , I 'd do it in the method you described , and use a very light touch .
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
I cook 'em on medium-high heat in butter until they 're browned and crisped to my liking . I do n't cover - that seems to result in soggier mushrooms than I prefer .
Do n't worry too much about it . Be careful that some doughs are wet ( high hydration - look at my <URL> ) , so they tend to stick more and are harder to manage . If a dough is hard to manage , just let it sit in the fridge for a couple of hours . It will become tougher and easier to handle . If you keep on adding flour , this will alter the bread formula ( affecting the salt content and hydration ) , an additional percent or two flour wo n't make much of a difference .
end question
