start question
What is the difference between active and passive sidestick ?
For references , I 've used <URL> ; <URL> ; <URL> ; &amp; the <URL> . The wiki is a general side-stick discussion listing ( some ) aircraft that have side-stick fly-by-wire ( FBW ) technology , but does not go into active vs. passive . Generally speaking , if you have used a joystick on your PC to fly Microsoft 's Flight Simulator , such as <URL> , you 've used an active side-stick . According to the Patent Application cited above , the patent is for an Active Side-Stick technology described as " pilot flight control stick haptic feedback mechanism provides variable force feedback to the pilot flight control stick . " One of the ' issues ' with the current passive side-stick technology ( approved for use ) used on aircraft such as Airbus ' A380 is that there is no tactile feedback when using the side-sticks , such as a pilot would feel using an old-style column or yoke . In a Cessna 172 , for instance , when you pull/push/turn the yoke , there is actual tactile feel , if you pull back strongly in-flight , you 'll ' feel ' the forces exerted against the airflow . Passive side-sticks have none of this ' feel ' . Active SS technology attempts to replicate the forces on the joystick . Active SS technology is currently used on most miltary aircraft using side-sticks , but does not appear to have yet made its way into civilian airliners . ( If I 've gotten stuff wrong , I 'll remove/fix this answer , as I am not an airline pilot and have never had the opportunity to fly military hardware . )
You 're correct that the ailerons are deflected differently when they are deflected up or down . This is done in order to counter the adverse yaw effect which occurs when ailerons are deployed . Consider the situation when the ailerons are deployed . <URL> Image from aerospaceweb.org One aileron is deflected downward while the other is deflected upward . One the side with the downward-deflected aileron , lift increases as the deflection effectively increases the camber of that portion of the wing . The opposite happens in the other side . However , the drag is also affected by aileron deflection - both induced and profile drags . For same deflection , the profile drag increase is same in both the wings . However , the induced drag on both sides are not equal , with a larger amount the wing with the down aileron ( as the lift is more and induced drag is proportional to the square of lift ) . One way of overcoming this is to deflect the ailerons differentially , i.e. deflect the down aileron by a lesser amount than the up aileron . The following table shows the aileron deflection in a number of aircraft , which shows the differential aileron deflection ( $ \ delta _ { A } $ is the aileron deflection , in degrees ) . <URL> Table from Aircraft Design : A Systems Engineering Approach by Mohammad Sadraey This adverse yaw can also be prevented by the use of , Frise ailerons Use of spoilers ( in the wing up aileron ) Cross coupled controls ( rudder and ailerons ) . There is another reason to use a differential aileron - to prevent tip stall at high angles of attack ( stall speeds ) . The rolling couple on the aircraft is always the difference in lift between the two wings . At or near stalling speeds , it is better to reduce the lift in up-going aileron than increase it in down moving one and risk stalling it .
In Europe , some airways are only available in certain flight level ranges , so a commercial airliner and a GA turbo-prop travelling from the same departure airport to the same destination airport could be travelling on different routes due to airway restrictions in place and the inability of one aircraft to climb to the same level as the other . Below the routing for PC12 operating IFR at FL150 and an A320 operating at FL250 . The above flightplan from EDDL to EDDM validates for FL240 , but anything above FL245 will not pass , it will error out with : To fly the same flight in higher levels , you would need another routing : This routing works fine for anything above FL245 , below it would again error out with :
A Line Replaceable Unit is a piece of hardware that can be exchanged for a replacement part in a relatively short time by only opening and closing fasteners and connectors . You will find the term LRU in avionics but also in ATC hardware . Examples are FMC , transponder , etc. . When you have a complex avionics system you tend to end up with a great variety of LRUs . All these LRU have a very specific function . To be able to quickly replace malfunctioning parts , maintenance needs to keep a large stock of spares for all these LRU 's . The Integrated Modular Avionics concept attempts to reduce the variety of LRU 's by designing the avionics with common components . E.g. one type of power supply , one type of memory unit , one type of processing board and only a few variations of input/output modules . This reduces the number of replacement parts needed to be kept on stock . The LRUs of IMA have more generic functions than in a traditional avionics system .
Not necessarily ; it is the pilot 's prerogative to use the weather radar as required . If the weather is clear and the pilot decides that the weather radar display is going to take up valuable space in display , he/she can fly without the weather radar on . Of course , in cases like night flying , it is better to have it on during the entire flight , but it is the pilot 's decision . The regulatory requirements are for the weather radar to be operational only if potentially dangerous conditions are expected en route or for night flying . From <URL> : ( b ) No person may begin a flight under IFR or night VFR conditions when current weather reports indicate that thunderstorms , or other potentially hazardous weather conditions that can be detected with airborne weather radar equipment , may reasonably be expected along the route to be flown , unless the airborne weather radar equipment required by paragraph ( a ) of this section is in satisfactory operating condition . European regulations are also similar . From <URL> : ( a ) An operator shall not operate : ( i ) ( 1 ) A pressurised aeroplane ; ... ... unless it is equipped with airborne weather radar equipment whenever such an aeroplane is being operated at night or in instrument meteorological conditions in areas where thunderstorms or other potentially hazardous weather conditions , regarded as detectable with airborne weather radar , may be expected to exist along the route .
Going around is a process , pulling up is an action . When ATC tells you to go around or you say you are going around it means you are initiating a set of actions to abort an approach . Pulling up is a single action , i.e. increasing the angle of attack in order to climb , and would be part of a go-around procedure . Pull up is a non-standard phrase , in most parts of the world at least , but you might hear it as ' pull up and go around ' in Canada . It also might be used in urgent situations to urge a pilot to act to avoid an obstacle or collision .
There is certainly a difference , but most of it definitely has a good explanation . Most of it is overhead such as taxi time that applies to both flights ( almost ) equally . This has a relative big impact on short flights . The taxi out time for both flights will be about <URL> is not exactly known for its quiet taxiways . Both flights will add about 30 nautical mile for their departure route . Both flights will fly approximately great circle routes , probably less than 2 % extra distance during cruise . The LAX flight will typically do a straight in arrival , almost no extra distance there . The DEN flight will typically do a full arrival , 30 NM extra distance there . The taxi in at <URL> on average , and <URL> . Let 's assume that both aircraft fly 460 knot true airspeed with 20 knots headwind during cruise , so 440 knots ground speed . My estimates for the total flight times are then : JFK-LAX GC distance 2150 n.m Departure detour 30 n.m Arrival detour 0 n.m ( straight in ) Cruise detour 25 n.m Total distance 2205 n.m Taxi out : 27 minutes Climb out : 60 n.m. @ 300 kts = 12 minutes Cruise : 2085 n.m. @ 440 kts = 4 hour 44 minutes Descent/Landing : 60 n.m @ 240 kts = 15 minutes Taxi in : 12 minutes Total time : 5h50 minutes Margin : 10 minutes JFK-DEN GC distance 1400 n.m. Departure detour 30 n.m. Arrival detour 30 n.m. Cruise detour 15 n.m. Total distance 1475 n.m. Taxi out : 27 minutes Climb out : 60 n.m. @ 300 kts = 12 minutes Cruise : 1355 n.m. @ 440 kts = 3 hour 05 minutes Descent/Landing : 60 n.m @ 240 kts = 15 minutes Taxi in : 9 minutes Total time : 4h07 minutes Margin : 33 minutes
The short answer is that the privileges are what the rating confers , and there are ways to get those privileges other than having the rating . A commercial pilot licensee in most jurisdictions that follow ICAO certification guidelines may fly small planes for hire , doing service as a courier , air taxi , crop duster , etc. . These do not necessarily require flying in IMC or in Class A airspace , and so a CPL holder must also have a separate " instrument rating certification " in order to fly IFR . ATPL licensees fly in Class A as a matter of course , and that also often requires ascending and descending through the cloud ceiling which is IMC by definition . Therefore , the requirements for an ATPL in ICAO-compliant jurisdictions inherently include those required for the " instrument rating " applied separately to lower certification levels ( private/commercial ) , and the resulting license for an airline pilot confers the same " instrument privileges " that the rating would . Thus the difference in terminology ; an ATPL holder in another country has " instrument privileges " as a consequence of his basic license and so does not need a specific " instrument rating " . The same is not true for CPLs and so the law specifically requires the instrument rating as a prereq for a foreign CPL seeking an FAA ATPL .
Independent of airspeed , angle of bank gives you the " G " force in a level coordinated turn . A 60 degree bank = 2 G 's , at any speed . At low speed , a given G force will give you a greater heading change than it would at a high speed . Driving your car at 10 mph you can complete a U-turn , 180 degrees of heading change , in a couple seconds without pinning passengers against the door , but at highway speeds , even a hard turn that does impose big side-loads will take much longer to give you that much heading change . Related to all this is turn radius : at low speed , your turn radius for any given loading ( bank angle ) is smaller than it would be at a higher speed with that same loading/bank angle . Thus , even though you 're going slower , you have less distance ( circumference of the circle ) to cover , and so you are able to complete the circle ( or one 360th of it ) more quickly . ( ( For the pedantic ones , everything here assumes level , coordinated turns . Change those assumptions enough , things can be different , but those are n't particularly instructive cases until the base case is understood . ) )
Both engines use a turbine for power . This is where the " turbo " part of the name comes from . In a turbine engine , air is compressed and then fuel is ignited in this compressed air . The energy produced by the ignition turns the turbine . The turbine is then able to drive both the compressor at the front of the engine and also some useful load . In airplanes , it produces thrust . The first jet engine was a turbojet . This is a simple turbine engine that produces all of its thrust from the exhaust from the turbine section . However , because all of the air is passing through the whole turbine , all of it must burn fuel . This means it is inefficient , and the solution is the turbofan . In a turbofan , the turbine primarily drives a fan at the front of the engine . Most engines drive the fan directly from the turbine . There are usually at least two separate shafts to allow the fan to spin slower than the inner core of the engine . The fan is surrounded by a cowl which guides the air to and from the fan . Part of the air enters the turbine section of the engine , and the rest is bypassed around the engine . In high-bypass engines , most of the air only goes through the fan and bypasses the rest of the engine and providing most of the thrust . In a turboprop , the turbine primarily drives a propeller at the front of the engine . There is no cowl around the prop . Some air enters the turbine , the rest does not . The propeller is geared to allow it to spin slower than the turbine . Although this diagram shows only a single shaft , many turboprops have two , with a high pressure shaft driving the compressor and a low pressure shaft driving the propeller . Some engines such as the popular <URL> also reverse the flow direction multiple times . Turboprops are more efficient at lower speeds since the prop can move much more air with a smaller turbine than the fan on a turbofan engine . The cowl around the turbofan 's large fan allows it to perform better than an open propeller at high speeds , but limits the practical size of the fan . At supersonic speeds , turbojets have more of a performance benefit . They develop all of their thrust from the high velocity turbine exhaust , while turbofans supplement that with the lower velocity air from the fan . Since the air from the fan is also not compressed nearly as much as the core turbine flow , it is also harder to prevent the flow from going supersonic and causing losses . The Concorde used turbojets because it was designed to cruise for long periods at supersonic speeds . Modern fighter jet engines are turbofans , which provide a compromise between efficiency and speed . There are other benefits and drawbacks between turbojets , turbofans , and turboprops , but I think they are beyond the scope of this question . Work has been done on creating a " propfan " engine , in an attempt to get the efficiency of a turboprop and the speed of a turbofan . They have yet to come up with a viable design . Elsewhere in aviation , turbine engines are used in helicopters , as a <URL> driving the rotors instead of a propeller , and with a freewheeling clutch to enable autorotations <URL> s in jet aircraft and large turboprop aircraft Turbines also find use outside of aviation in power plants ( to generate electricity ) , and even vehicles ( like the Abrams tank ) . Turbocharged piston engines use a turbine much differently from the examples above . Instead of being the primary power source , the turbine only assists the piston engine . A turbocharger uses a turbine to compress air sent to the engine intake . The increased compression helps the engine generate more power . The turbine of a turbocharger is driven by engine exhaust gasses , and a supercharger is similar but is directly powered by the engine . See the <URL> for more detail .
First we should see how active noise reduction works . The simplest definition would be : The following picture on <URL> depicts it in a simple manner : <URL> Then we can see what unwanted sounds ANR can actually reduce . As mentioned in <URL> : ANR headsets work best at frequencies below about 400-450 Hertz . This represents the normal frequency range for speech , and also much propeller and exhaust noise is in this region . ANR headsets are therefore a significant advantage where intelligibility of transmissions is affected by engine and propeller noise . In general , ANR Headsets offer greater hearing protection in high-noise environments but will do little to reduce noise at higher frequencies such as wind or airflow noise . In a flying airplane ( even in a slow flight ) , wind flow would be quite high . This <URL> states : The wind noise spectrum is dominated by the lower frequencies ( < 500 Hz ) , although at 27 mph when saturation is present , the wind noise level can be greater than 60 dB SPL at 8 kHz . Since passive noise control is sound reduction by noise-isolating materials such as insulation , sound-absorbing tiles , or a muffler rather than a power source , in an open cockpit , passive NR headsets work better than active NR headsets .
The wing fence is more or less what it is called - a fence . For swept wing aircraft , the local flow is not along the direction of flight , as there is a significant spanwise flow from the center towards the tips . It can be seen in the following figure . <URL> Image from <URL> The end result is that the boundary layer continues to grow ( thicken ) in this direction , with outboard regions more prone to stall than inboard ones . Basically , the wing fences stop the spanwise flow , with the result being a new ( thinner ) boundary layer starts on the other side of the fence . In case of a vortex generator , the VGs basically create a vortex which re-invigorates the boundary layer by mixing free stream air with that of the boundary layer , thereby preventing separation .
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
For GA aircraft with straight , rectangular wings , the stall usually starts at the root and progresses towards the tip . So , at some point , only a portion of the wing will be stalled . This is sometimes referred to as partial stall , though it is not a common term . <URL> Image from boldmethod.com This is usually achieved by having a washout or a wing cuff . In case of root-first stall , the wing tips are still producing lift , helping to prevent rolling motion ( which may occur if the whole wings stalls at once ) , which in turn prevents the aircraft from entering a spin .
I think you are trying to ask What is the difference between a propeller and a turbo propeller ? A traditional propeller plane is powered by an <URL> engine . These can be in the form of radial , flat , or V style engines with a few other configurations used here and there . On the other hand a turbo prop is a propeller plane that is powered by a <URL> . In this instance the shaft of the turbine is used to drive a propellor . One could think of this as putting a propellor on the front of a jet engine .
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
SAA is a project being undertaken to unify how SUA 's ( and <URL> 's ) are defined , managed , and shared . [ SAA will ] define SUAs and ATCAAs in a consistent manner using an editing tool Use a Service Oriented Architecture ( SOA ) to distribute that data to interested users Manage the schedule and status of those airspaces through a SOA . SAA is part of the <URL> ( SWIM ) . In short , SAA encompasses SUA , ATCAA , etc. . Source : <URL> ( . ppt file )
The term is not " approved " , it is the complete phrase . This is the standard FAA term for what was previously called either or , and means " separation in accordance with the applicable minima in [ <URL> ] " . The separation minima are further defined in the JO 7110 family of FAA Air Traffic Control orders , which you can find linked from the page above .
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
The climb gradient is the percentage of the rise over run ( 50 % if you are climbing at 45 degrees ) that your aircraft is climbing at while the rate of climb is the speed at which you are climbing based off the airspeed and climb gradient ( given in feet per minute ) .
end question
start question
Do laser Christmas lights have the same dangers as laser pointers aimed at planes ?
A fine beam is needed do draw patterns . A regular led would require a moving focusing mirror , something expensive . There is a non-standard warning : " Laser aperture , Max output < 1 mW " near the leds : <URL> As the leds are in the visible spectrum , this is equivalent in power to a <URL> laser . A Class 2 laser is considered to be safe because the blink reflex ( glare aversion response to bright lights ) will limit the exposure to no more than 0.25 seconds . ( <URL> ) . This image shows the effect of a 5 mW laser light . You may use it for a 1 mW laser light by dividing the distances by 5 : <URL> Adapted from original on <URL> or from the <URL> : A 0.99 mW Class 2 laser beam can temporarily flashblind a pilot or driver , causing afterimages , within 240 ft ( 73 m ) of the laser . It can cause glare , blocking a pilot or driver 's vision , within 1050 ft ( 320 m ) of the laser . It can cause distraction , being brighter than surrounding lights , within 2 miles ( 3.2 km ) of the laser . The above distances are for a tightly focused beam , which is probably not the case of an inexpensive laser device . The effects of a more diverged beam are weaker . More info : This <URL> . To sum up : Most countries have regulations for dazzling a pilot , regardless of the mean and power used , it 's the effect that is taken into account . A class 2 laser led could n't blind someone unless the person is at a few meters ( 15 m for temporary blindness and 3 m for eye damages , if the eye is forced to stay open ) . As the class is not mentioned on the label , I would be careful when seeing this item . There are actually 2 laser leds , a red and a green , is it 2x1 mW or 2x0 .5 mW ? In practical the lasers probably ca n't illuminate the same eye , due to the divergence of their beams . To draw a pattern a laser light must move , so the time of illumination of a point is reduced when the device is working correctly .
It is called a <URL> and I do n't think that any of the present generation large commercial aircraft use them . That said , a number of older commercial aircraft have used them , a good example being the Sud Caravelle . <URL> Image from eu.airliners.net There are some issues with using drogue chutes in a commercial airliner , which would limit their effectiveness . Most commercial airliners have thrust reversers already . For it to be effective , the parachute has to be quite huge . For example , the Handley Page Victor , which had MTOW in the range of A320 , had a drogue chute 48 ' ( or 14.6 m ) in diameter . The chute would occupy volume and increase weight . If drogue chutes are used , they have to be packed before every flight , which will increase turnaround times . Another option is to replace them at the end of every deployment , which would increase costs . Deployment failure/partial deployment/Uncommanded deployment will affect the safety of the flight . The need to use a drogue chute can limit the crosswind landing of the airliner significantly . Aircraft dragging a huge chute during taxiing back to the ramp is not a good idea from FoD point of view .
In theory you might be able to make an estimate , but practically speaking it 's impossible and a lot easier to just look at a sectional chart . The FAA has a <URL> on obstacle lighting standards , which usually applies to structures over 200ft in height but there 's a lot of possible variation : Recommendations on marking and/or lighting structures can vary depending on terrain features , weather patterns , geographic location , and in the case of wind turbines , number of structures and overall layout of design . The actual number of lights and their placement depends on the type and size of the structure . Appendix 1 of the FAA guide has examples for water towers , radio masts , cooling stacks , bridges , chimneys etc. . The vertical light spacing seems to vary from 250-375ft , depending on the structure type , but I did n't go through it systematically . So if you have plenty of time you might be able to determine the approximate height of a structure by comparing its lighting layout to the guide and estimating based on that , but that 's very unlikely to give you an accurate number . For a pilot in flight or planning a flight , that is n't safe or practical and the simple solution is to just <URL> to get the height . For example , this tower is 1094ft high and the top is at 1994ft above sea level ( so the ground level is 900ft above sea level at that location ) :
A lot depends on how low you are and what aircraft you 're flying , but any low-level flight has some risks and difficulties . Here are some , I 'm sure there are others : If the aircraft loses power you have much less time and distance available to execute a forced landing , and your choice of landing sites will be more limited You ca n't see as far ahead so it 's more difficult to look out for obstacles and <URL> may also be more difficult in some circumstances You may accidentally break the law on minimum safe flying height because the terrain changes too quickly , you do n't see an obstacle or town until it 's too late etc. . There 's a greater risk of collision with terrain or obstacles like radio towers , especially if your aircraft is a fast one and you have less time to react The likelihood of both thermal and mechanical turbulence is higher when flying low , increasing risks of loss of control and collision with terrain and obstacles If you 're <URL> in VMC there 's a high risk of <URL> , which is extremely dangerous ( incidentally , despite the title of that question , even instrument-rated pilots have a poor safety record when they enter IMC unintentionally ) Radio reception may be poor ATC radar may not be able to see you Your engine may not operate very efficiently That 's not to say that low-level flying is always a bad idea , but it I think it does require more preparation , alertness and even local knowledge from the pilot .
There have been quite a few incidents . Here 's one , <URL> Google will find others . I ca n't find links , but do know that there have been incidents caused by different issues such as ground locks not in place , failed struts , WoW logic failures and so on where when hydraulic power was applied , the gear retracted or collapsed .
RTCA documents are not FAA documents , although the FAA is usually a member of the Special Committee that creates the documents . If an example is to be added , it is the decision of the SC , not of the FAA . The reason that no examples are given is that the recommendation is clear by itself . A good V&amp;V engineer will read this recommendation and use his skill , experience and creativity to find an other acceptable means to validate the software requirements that can not be validated in a realistic environment . This alternative means is then documented in the SVP . Giving an example is not helpful at all , since the solution will depend completely on the software under test and the nature of the requirements . If the hardware is not available , an emulator may be the solution . In other cases artificial test inputs have to be generated , because failing a test in a realistic environment may prove to be catastrophic .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Cool room in a cargo terminal . The rabbit arrived fine but there was some sort of mistake and he was locked inside a freezer overnight . Goods that are perishable and human remains awaiting transport , wait in the freezer before being loaded onto flights . Different rooms for cargo handling can be <URL> , they include : Cool rooms Freezer rooms Warm rooms ( for e.g. perishable flowers ) Dangerous goods rooms There are also specialized <URL> 's that come with refrigeration units . <URL> ( <URL> ) Temperature controlled ULD . [ Depending ] on the nature of the goods to be transported , [ ULD 's ] may have built-in refrigeration units .
This is because what you are looking at is the IAS indicator ( Indicated Air Speed ) . This represents the amount of relative air which flows over and under the wings of the plane . This is what creates lift and enables the plane to fly . This is why this instrument is so important and belongs to the primary flight instruments . This is not to be confused with GS ( Ground Speed ) , which can be sensed by IRS ( Intertial Reference System ) , or by the GPS . Ground Speed is not relevant to pilot an aircraft , but it 's still useful for example to determine the ETA ( Estimated Time of Arrival ) , and for fuel estimation during flight . The IAS indicator indicates a lower speed because the more you climb , the less air there is . So even the air flows faster , the global pressure feeling is lower . So , actually planes are not slower at higher altitudes . They are faster ( at least most planes whose flight envelope force them to fly faster when they are higher , otherwise they would stall , because they would have to increase their Angle of Attack too much to counterbalance the lack of air flowing above and under the wings ) . But when they reach their target Mach speed , their speed will decrease slowly as the outside air temperature is decreasing until end of climb . Sorry for the picture being in French ... But as you can see , the flight envelope of an airliner forces him to actually fly faster as it is climbing . <URL> Different speeds There are different speeds on an aircraft , and it can be quite confusing . IAS ( Indicated Airspeed ) is what the instruments directly sense . It is computed by subtracting the static pressure ( static ports are placed on the fuselage , vertically to relative airflow ) from the total pressure ( pitot tubes are placed parallel to relative airflow . This gives a measured dynamic pressure which is then displayed in knots , km/h or mp/h . This speed is showed on most general aviation aircrafts as the main speed indication ( but it 's actually not a speed and more a ' pressure of air feeling ' ) . CAS ( Calibrated Airspeed ) is the same as IAS , but without instrument errors . It gives a speed related to the real dynamic pressure felt by the aircraft . This speed is showed on most airliners as the main speed indication ( for pilot and autopilot ) . TAS ( True Airspeed ) is the same as CAS when at 15 ° C , 0 % humidity , 1013,25 hPa ( 29.92 inHg ) ( ISA , International Standard Atmosphere ) . This time it is literally the air speed ( speed of the air ) : it is the real speed at which the relative air flows around the aircraft . It takes into account the fact that air density is not always the same . This speed is used when measuring or referring to an aircraft performance during cruise for example . It is also used during flight planning before the wind has been taken into account . GS ( Ground Speed ) is the speed of the aircraft relative to the surface of the Earth ( the equivalent of the speed showed in a car ) . In an airplane , we can not use wheel speed to measure it because we are in the air , so we need GPS or IRS to do this . If there is no wind outside , TAS and GS are the same . If there is 30kt tailwind , GS is 30kt higher than TAS . This speed is used to know when you will arrive at your destination airport , and to know if you will have enough fuel ( because the wind is taken into account ) . This speed is also used when the aircraft is on the ground ( when taxiing , or more generally at low speeds when wheels are on the ground ) . Airlines or airports fix speed limitations when taxiing . The only way to know if you respect the limits is to look at the Ground Speed . Also , the airspeed indicator usually wo n't be active below a certain speed ( 45KIAS for the B737 ) . So , why is the primary airspeed indication ( IAS or CAS ) the wrong speed ( not actual speed ) of the air flowing around the aircraft ? This is because this wrong airspeed represents actually the real pressure feeling around the wings that is responsible for the lift . It is this parameter that we need as pilot and it is used in aircraft manuals to describe the V-speeds . It 's perfect that IAS and CAS are not corrected with altitude and temperature , because if we know that our airplane stalls at 120kts for example , we wo n't need to care about altitude or temperature . Our airplane will stall at that same speed regardless of altitude and temperature . If we would use TAS , stall speed would be constantly changing and it would be more difficult to keep the aircraft in good and safe flying conditions . <URL> Here is where you can find these speeds in the Boeing 737 NG cockpit : <URL>
Both log time , they just log it as different things . This is similar as a student and instructor logging time , but for different roles . The captain is the pilot-in-command and thus logs ' PIC ' , the F/O is second-in-command and logs ' SIC ' . The pilot who is tasked with controlling the plane is called ' PF ' or " pilot flying " , and the other is called ' PNF ' or " pilot not flying " , or " pilot monitoring " . This does n't affect who 's PIC and who 's SIC though , and if I understand correctly , it 's not generally logged who 's actually flying .
Photos of this would be very hard to come by , but yes , in an extremely cold environment , say close to the arctic and antarctic regions of the globe where daylight temperatures can be down around -40 ° F , it is entirely possible for this to happen by the laws of thermodynamics . The rarity is further exacerbated by the fact that aircraft are difficult to start up at those temperatures , generally grounding operations where surface temperatures reach low enough to form contrails .
In the case of the 737 , the first series produced was the 737-100 . Not many were made . Then the 737-200 was built , which was very popular . The third generation of the 737 , known now as the " Classic " , had three variants , the -300 , the -400 , and the -500 . All are very similar , the significant difference being the size . The -300 has bigger ( more powerful , as well as physically larger ) engines than the older -200 did , and a longer cabin . With its success , Boeing decided to lengthen the cabin further , resulting in the -400 . They also made a variant that was essentially the length of the shorter -200 , and since it came along third it got the next designation , the -500 . The next generation of 737 's , known as the " Next Generation " , runs from the -600 through the -900 , and this time Boeing decided to make the numbers correspond with the fuselage length , so the -600 is about as long as the -200 and -500 ( roughly ) , the -700 is comparable to the -300 , the -800 is longer as the -400 was , and the -900 is longer than anything before . Now they 're out of numbers , and so the NEXT generation of 737 's , known as the Max , gets single digit numbers ... the Max -7 ( i.e. 737-7 ) corresponds roughly to the length of the -700 , the Max -8 to the -800 , the Max -9 to the -900 , and so on . The point of this long discussion is simply that the numbers following the dash represent different variants of the aircraft . In some cases , it may be a new generation design ; in other cases it may simply be a different fuselage length . As the <URL> discusses , HOW those numbers are chosen is sometimes driven more by marketing than it is by mathematical progression . Often , though , the higher number indicates a later version , and often-but-not-always , a newer generation . But you really have to know the particular aircraft line to know which it is .
For fuel , any fuel , to burn , it must be mixed with suitable amount of air . Neither too little nor too much would burn . Spark-ignition engines pre-mix the fuel with air , so they must do so in the right ratio , hence the need for mixture control ( which might be automated , but it must be there ) . However , compression-ignition ( Diesel ) engines are different . They inject fuel directly into the cylinders and as the fuel spreads from the injecting nozzle , it mixes with air and ignites at the moment it is sufficiently mixed . The cylinders always take full charge of air , otherwise the compression would not heat the air enough to ignite the fuel . At low power , the flame is only small around the nozzle and at the large power it expands to fill the cylinder , but either way there is a point where the mixture is just right and the fuel ignites . Therefore compression-ignition engines do n't need mixture control . The power lever simply controls the fuel flow into the engine and there is no throttle on the air intake ( so calling power lever ' throttle ' is inaccurate for Diesels ( and turbines ) ) .
TL ; DR : No . For the true answer refer to the FAA <URL> 777-200 2 Pratt and Whitney Turbofan Model : PW4074 , PW4074D , PW4077 , PW4077D , PW4090 , PW4084D , and PW4090-3 ( Engine Type Certificate No . E46NE ) 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-76B , GE90-85B , GE90-90B , GE90-94B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 2 Rolls-Royce Turbofan Model : RB211-Trent 875-17 , RB211-Trent , 877-17 , RB211-Trent 884-17 , RB211-Trent 892-17 , or RB211 Trent 892B-17 , RB211 Trent 895-17 ( Engine Type Certificate E00050EN ) 777-300 2 Rolls-Royce Turbofan Model : RB211-Trent 884-17 , RB211-Trent 884B-17 , or RB211-Trent 892-17 ( Engine Type Certificate E00050EN ) 2 Pratt &amp; Whitney Turbofan Model : PW4090 , PW4098 ( Engine Type Certificate E46N ) 777-300ER 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 777-200LR 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-110B1 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 777F 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-110B1 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN )
They are designed to not stall at the tips first . Such a stall behavior would be highly problematic because it causes a pitch-up moment which exacerbates the stall . See the <URL> how nasty stalls with swept wings can become . <URL> describes the required stall characteristics : ( a ) It must be possible to produce and to correct roll and yaw by unreversed use of the aileron and rudder controls , up to the time the airplane is stalled . No abnormal nose-up pitching may occur . The longitudinal control force must be positive up to and throughout the stall . In addition , it must be possible to promptly prevent stalling and to recover from a stall by normal use of the controls . Such a behavior is easiest to achieve when separation does not start at the wing tip . <URL> sometimes had trouble to achieve docile stall characteristics which led to the introduction of stick shakers . Today , changing the airfoil shape over span ( aerodynamic washout ) and wing twist ( geometric washout ) are combined to ensure that stall starts at the wing root . Regarding washout : With high-lift devices employed , the <URL> of the ailerons on the outer wing results in a strong effective washout . Here it is important to extend the slats over the outer wing to enable it to function well above the local angle of attack . The picture of an A300-600 below should illustrate the point . <URL> A300-600 in landing configuration ( picture <URL> ) But even in clean configuration some washout remains and allows the outer wing to fly at a lower lift coefficient which ensures a decent stall margin . A photo of an airliner wing on the ground might be misleading : The lift forces in flight will twist the swept-back wing such that washout is increased .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Ground call horn . There 's a horn the pilots can sound to attract the attention of the ground engineer , so they can talk on the intercom ( by wearing a headset ) . It 's not loud enough to have any effect in the air -- or when the engines are running loudly . It 's more of an <URL> really . Taxi lights can be flashed on/off to attract the attention of ground crew , also opening a window and waving would work . <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> ( <URL> ) Ground crew member wearing a headset connected to the plane .
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
No . The transition attitude in a defined area is fixed . For example , in the USA it is 18.000 ft and in many European countries it is 5.000 ft. It 's impossible to have different transition altitudes at one airport , because that would make it impossible to use vertical separation between aircraft close to the transition layer .
Fear of number 13 is known as <URL> . I randomly entered some flight numbers on <URL> and found that <URL> one has row 13 ( aircraft is B737 ) : In <URL> case , there is no 13th row : However , in <URL> case , several row numbers ( 12 , 13 , 14 ) are skipped to adjust galleys and lavatories . This could be that they were added later or can be removed in future to add more rows . The bottom line is that regardless of what you name it , there remains a 13th row . If a plane is about to crash ( God forbid ) I would be worried about being on the plane , rather than just the seat number . There are several studies that safest seats are in the back . So , rows 1-12 may not be as unlucky as row 13 . If you have 12 million dollars and I can give you one million more1 , would you not take it ? In several parts of the world <URL> . 1Trust me , I will not do it , even if I have that much money .
Yes , helicopters can be fitted with autopilots . Some are very simple , others are quite advanced . The more advanced ones can , for instance , follow a pre-programmed route , climb/descent to a pre-selected altitude , fly an ILS approach , perform a go-around automatically . They are not ordinarily found in small helicopters due to cost and lack of necessity . All modern offshore helicopters that I 've encountered have them and they are used extensively . Usually they are engaged shortly after take-off and disengaged shortly before landing .
<URL> has done some research that chronobiologically-adapted LED lighting can enhance passengers well being and they can sleep better during a flight . <URL> details about this research : Adaptive solid-state lighting ( SSL ) scenarios in which the color and brightness of lighting is varied during long-distance overnight flights results in passengers that sleep better and are more alert upon arrival . ... at the start of an overnight flight that warm-white light helps to stimulate melatonin production and increases passenger relaxation ... blue-rich cold light in the morning increased alertness There have been studies showing benefits of <URL> .
end question
start question
How does wake turbulence affect parachutists ?
Qualification : I am a master parachute rigger and I taught sport parachuting for 10 years . The back door of a 747 is actually in a pretty good position - the tail is above the door and the fuselage is narrowing at that point so it 's not a complete side exit . A freefall jumper will drop out of the aircraft 's wake in under a second so that 's not really an issue . If we pick a theoretical worst-case where a jumper goes straight through a huge vortex they might get flipped over . Remember that a human does not have large surfaces like wings to interact with . Any jumper that ca n't recover from that wo n't be doing freefall jumps anyway . Seriously , this is in the Jump # 1 stability lesson , and if you have n't got it sorted by jump # 6 any reputable school will send you home . Exit speed is a consideration - sport gear is meant for < 200km/h . If we are going out at 747 cruise speeds I would tighten everything right up1 , wrap some tape around the riser covers2 and tuck the pilot chute handle completely into the pouch . Maybe also tack the closing flap cover down . Yes guys , it will still open if you sew it to the proper flap . If the plane is at approach speeds with flaps and gear down then you 're fine - not much different than a King Air . So in conclusion , yes , you can jump out of a 747 . Rent one and you will have every jumper in the state lining up for tickets . To reply to the comment of the pilot chute going over the tail , that happened at our place too ( and to me once , but mine went under the tail ) . It 's got nothing to do with turbulence - the pilot chute got pulled mostly out of the pouch , most likely snagging something , and the air picked it up from there . Our guy actually hit the tail . He had nasty bruises and needed a few lines changed , the pilot needed new underwear , and the Cessna needed a bunch of rivets and sheet metal work . When it happened to me I had a surprise deployment at 9,500 feet and a longer than usual ride down . 1 to the point where you will need my tools to close it . 2 it will break away after opening , and wo n't be more than an annoyance if it does n't
the aircraft I worked on in the army were deadlined whenever 1 % of total aircraft weight was removed , requiring either the part to be reinstalled or a total reweigh prior to next flight . That 's for internal equipment , which will affect the empty CG data . All aircraft lose weight during a trip . Aircraft designed to lose a lot of weight all of a sudden ( C-5 airdrops , B-52 carpet bombing ) have the details and limits calculated during the design . In the case of bombers , the ordinance will be hanging near the wings and will have a specific release order , usually back to front . A tailgate aircraft dropping something will also have very specific procedures based on the weight of the pallet going out the back door . If it 's delivering pizzas the procedure is along the lines of " whenever , dude " . If it 's a tank , it has to be positioned and locked down until the moment of release . The above is very noticeable by the flight crew . If the load stays ( or gets stuck ) on the back ramp , you 're usually done . I used to skydive - 10 people on the back end of a smaller tailgate like a Casa can and do cause the plane to stall . The rules were stay at the front until it 's your turn , then position and exit in a prompt manner . If the buzzer goes , let go NOW . Unlike a cargo plane , jump planes have 12,000 feet to recover from the stall .
Adverse Yaw created by the propellor will vary based on aircraft and design . Lots of modern single engine aircraft do things to counter act adverse yaw but if we take a pretty neutral aircraft design and apply the tabs you reference all you will see is a slightly more aggressive rudder . Since there is a tab in each direction in a centered situation they will cancel each other out however they will cause the rudder to have a more drastic impact at smaller angles of deflection . What actually happens ? Does the neutral position of the rudder change at different power settings when flying straight and level ? Does this arrangement reduce your foot workload compared to other aircraft ? The neutral position of the rudder will always change a bit as the power settings vary . For this you have <URL> . Generally speaking a lot of GA planes have a bit of left rudder trim always in to counteract <URL> some even have permanent design features to do so . It should also be noted that <URL> is most prominent at high angles of attack and high power settings ( takeoff and climb out ) generally this also means lower airspeeds . Once you settle into cruise its effects are decreased . I have never felt that it adds to my work load when flying but <URL> may have a different opinion on that ... The design you mention does not really reduce workload , for that you would need something like a <URL> some new planes like the <URL> .
Aircraft are not always moved with <URL> ( the small vehicle you refer to ) . Much of the time , they operate under their own power . Airliners are generally pushed back from the gate using a tug , as that 's the simplest and most efficient method . They then taxi to the runway ( and all the way up to the gate , after landing ) using their own engines to provide thrust . This is true of both jets and propeller aircraft . Some work is being done on self-contained electric-powered ground propulsion ; one major player in this area is a company called <URL> . They use high-torque motors and the aircraft APU to allow the aircraft to move itself without starting its engines or requiring a tug to be connected and disconnected .
Not all commercial jets have autobrakes , and the ones that do usually have a company policy dictating when it will be used . The criteria for activating the brakes are different depending on the manufacturer and model of aircraft , but are typically some combination of : System must be armed A certain takeoff power setting must be set by the throttles A certain airspeed must be obtained Thrust levers must be pulled back to idle Aircraft must still be on the ground Usually for a rejected takeoff it does use max braking , however the autobrake usually has different settings for landing along the lines of " light/medium/max " braking . Each setting will use a different amount of runway for landing , much like lightly pressing on the brake pedal in your car versus jamming it to the floor .
No , simulators can not realistically simulate turbulence . Turbulence is characterized by significant changes in altitude that happen very quickly , and even full motion simulators are n't going to be able to re-create that . They can bump you around a bit , but not really prepare you for the real thing .
Directional stability When a swept wing is flying in a sideslip , the windward side behaves like a wing with less effective sweep $ \ varphi _ { eff } $ and the leeward side like one with more effective sweep . Wing sweep causes a flattening of the lift curve slope for two reasons : The effective angle of attack is reduced by the cosine of the sweep angle . Only the component of speed normal to the quarter-chord line of the wing is creating lift , so a swept wing creates less lift per area than a straight wing . The increased lift rolls the aircraft , but also produces increased lift-induced drag which pulls it back to straight flight . The sketch above shows this for the <URL> . This effect is so strong that swept , high-wing configurations need anhedral to keep the sideslip-induced rolling moment down . For completeness , also the side force $ Y$ of fuselage and winglets is added and shows that the winglets help a lot to create directional stability . This is needed in case of the SB-13 because it has a nearly elliptical lift distribution . Using a triangular distribution ( N9-M ) or even a bell-shaped distribution ( <URL> flying wings ) avoids the need for winglets , but causes higher induced drag in straight flight . Another downside is a low directional stability at high speed , because this sweep effect increases with the lift coefficient on the outer wing . Longitudinal stability Wing sweep also helps in longitudinal stability by stretching out the wing lengthwise . This is important for flying wings which lack a separate tail surface . By changing flap angles at the center or the wing tips , the lift at the most forward or most backward sections can be changed for pitch control , and more sweep increases the lever arm of these changes . Also , in swept flying wings natural static stability can be achieved without the use of reflex airfoils , but by applying washout . Again , the higher the sweep angle , the less washout is required . Too much sweep ? Easily ! Sweeping a wing creates lots of problems : Sweep reduces the lift curve slope and the maximum lift of a wing . The maximum landing attitude with a highly swept , slender wing is severely limited by wing tip clearance , so swept wings need powerful high-lift devices . Sweep causes the boundary layer to be washed outboard , which will cause nasty stall behavior once a specific ratio of wing aspect ratio and sweep has been exceeded . This can be somewhat limited by wing fences , but should better be avoided altogether . Sweep changes mean that bending moments will partially get converted to torsion moments , requiring a torsional stiffening of the wing . For flying wings , sweep will let the aircraft center pitch up and down when the wing flexes . This creates a powerful interaction between the fast period mode ( which is only moderately damped in flying wings ) with the wing bending mode , resulting in flutter . Why sweep a wing at all ? Generally , an aircraft designer will allow only as much sweep as necessary . Wing sweep reduces drag when the aircraft flies with transonic or supersonic speed . Now the Mach effects depend only on the normal speed component , so they are proportional to the cosine of the sweep angle . For the N9-M this was not a factor , however , the B-2 benefits from it with a higher <URL> .
At the critical mach number , some part of the aircraft ( usually the wing ) will have air flowing over it at a speed in excess of mach 1 . If the aircraft is not meant to fly at transonic or supersonic speeds , shock waves will flow over the wing . This can either cause the wing to stall , the control surfaces to become unresponsive , or the plane to go into the mach tuck , which is very dangerous . The mach tuck is a phenomenon first observed with the P-38 Lightnings and Spitfires in World War II . These planes were so clean that when dive bombing it was possible to exceed their critical mach number . When this happened the center of lift would move back on the wing . This would cause the plane to ' tuck ' ; the elevators stop functioning , and the plane 's dive becomes steeper and steeper until the aircraft is actually partially inverted . Recovery can be attempted by lowering the gear , extending the dive brakes , and lowering the flaps . In later versions of the P-38 a small ' speed bump ' flap was added for diving which caused a more even pressure distribution on the wing , and decreased the chance of entering a mach tuck .
I found the following rather surprising statement in a ( probably quite old ) University of Southamption <URL> Rolls-Royce has never had a service failure of conventional fan blades in over 40 million hours of operation , and there have been no service failures of wide-chord blades in over 10 million hours of operation ( Baldwin 1993 ) . In one incident , RB211-535E4 engines on a Boeing 757 were struck by a flock of Canada geese near Chicago -- some seven birds , each around 3 kg , were ingested . The wide-chord fan blades withstood the impact , which was some eight times greater than the requirements for certification , and the engine did not have to be shut down in flight . So far as I know , bodies like the NTSB do n't collect statistics on blade failure events .
As long as flight is coordinated , the vertical position of the center of gravity ( cg ) is of minor importance . It will show in issues like thrust changes , when acceleration will cause higher trim changes because of the increased lever arm between the inertial forces and the thrust forces . This will only change when flight is no longer coordinated and the aircraft sideslips . Now the big cargo volume is more important than the cg location because it will contribute a considerable side force . Also , it will need additional means of lateral stabilisation because the big fairing will destabilise the aircraft in yaw . Still , the lever arm between the cg and the lift force vector will be much , much smaller than the lever arm of the ailerons , and a little aileron deflection will be enough to stabilise the aircraft . Maneuvering will look funny to crews used to fly the unmodified version of the same airplane , because now a roll manoeuver will induce a lateral motion at the location of the cockpit which was not there before . Same goes for eigenmodes like the Dutch roll which will be more noticeable for the crew because their cockpit sways laterally . " Flipping over " needs deliberate commands from the pilot ; this is no different in aircraft with unusual vertical cg positions . The most extreme is probably the <URL> version of the Russian <URL> bomber . <URL> M-4 Molot version VM-T Atlant with Buran booster tank ( picture <URL> )
Please do n't believe everything you read . You healthy scepticism is your best defense against the nonsense you might read about <URL> . What causes the flow to increase its angle when approaching the leading edge is the low pressure region above the wing . This is not only the main contributor to the wing 's lift , but also the reason for the flow pattern ahead of the wing , in combination with the overpressure region around the stagnation point . Please read <URL> and let me know if something is left unclear .
Your question : What is the logic behind the delay of the signal and how is the echo signal later bound with the signal sent ? Short answer A PESA is an array of individual antennas . Each antenna radiates the same signal , except the phase . The phase adjustment for each antenna allows for the non-moving array to behave like if it could be rotated , i.e. the direction the energy is sent to or receive from can be selected by adjusting the phase for the individual antennas . Varying the signal phase for an individual antenna of the array can be done by delaying the signal for this antenna , which in turn is as easy as making the electrical conductor ( or waves guide ) between the oscillator and the antenna longer . PESA <URL> exactly like another more traditional one with a single rotating antenna . A signal sent by a PESA , after it has been sent , is indistinguishable from a signal sent by a rotating antenna radar . Details The principle of a primary radar is to send a radio signal in a given direction and wait for a possible echo . The direction of the radiation pattern is used in determining the direction ( azimuth and elevation ) of the reflecting object . The antenna must be very directional ( small solid angle of the radiation pattern ) , else the angle determination can not be precise . <URL> Radiation pattern of an antenna with a parabolic reflector ( <URL> ) That means the antenna must be rotated to scan a useful portion of the sky ( or ground ) . To clarify the wording used , an antenna is usually composed of : A radiator which receives the signal to be transmitted ( it also collects the waves in reception ) . The radiator is the interface between electrons and waves and vice-versa . A reflector used to reflect the waves from the radiator ( it also focuses the waves on the radiator in reception ) . Sometimes directors to narrow the radiation pattern of the system . The radiation pattern of an antenna is mostly determined by the shape of the reflector ( e.g. the <URL> ) which only illuminates a given fraction of the space and , due to interferences , also varies the energy based on the direction the energy is sent to or received from . Due to the reflector , a signal from the radiator will usually travels using different paths created by the multiple reflections . Interferences are the result of combining the electromagnetic signals at a given point . For signals having the same frequency , the phase determines if signals are added ( same phase ) or canceled ( opposite phases ) . <URL> Phase determines how signals interfere ( <URL> ) We can apply this phenomenon to the multiple signals created in an antenna composed of a radiator and a cylindrical reflector . <URL> Signals summation on a cylindrical reflector antenna creates a privileged direction of radiation with some secondary ( unwanted ) lobes ( <URL> ) Array of radiators ( electronically scanned array , ESA ) Another way of varying the privileged direction of a radiation pattern is to create interferences on a voluntary basis , so that they create a stronger signal in the desired direction , and a weaker signal elsewhere . The advantage is that this electronic direction change can be much quicker than a mechanical rotation . One way to create interferences is to send the radar signal from an array of small radiators instead of a single big one . <URL> Close-up of the front of the old Cobra Judy radar ( <URL> ) This type of array is quite familiar under the name interferometer in the field of astrophysics : <URL> Siberian Solar Radio Telescope ( SSRT ) interferometer observing the Sun at 5.7 GHz ( <URL> ) If all radiators are fed with the same signal , then interferences will occur the same way on the whole surface and the result will be that the direction perpendicular to the array is privileged ( image on the left side ) . <URL> Electronic beam-deflection ( left : bore sight , right : deflected ( <URL> ) The right side of the image shows what happens if the signal sent to the individual radiators is delayed in a coordinated way : Delay increases from right to left on the array . It must be remembered that delay means phase here . The direction of the signal is now oblique due to the the location of constructive and destructive interferences . The red circles indicates signal with the same phase . See this <URL> too . Delaying an electric signal is quite easy : Just increase the length of the conductor ( see <URL> ) . A length variation between 0 and the wave length ( e.g. 10 cm for a wavelength of 10 cm -- 3 GHz ) allows to sweep the whole range of possible phase values from 0 to 360 ° . Indeed there are other ways to delay a signal without adjusting the length , but they are electrically equivalent . When signals are digitized , it 's really easy to process them , there is less electro-mechanical constraints . By varying the phase on individual radiators we can steer the signal as if the antenna had been rotated , but we can also focus the energy on a target . <URL> ( <URL> ) PESA vs AESA There are two approach
$ V _ { MO } $ is a " maximum operating speed " . It is one of many " <URL> " defined for an aircraft that limit operation at various flight phases . All V-speeds are <URL> ¹ . The $ V _ { MO } $ is the maximum permitted speed for the aircraft . This includes a safety margin , so pilots can reasonably fly near that speed . Exceeding it is not immediately dangerous , but as it reduces safety margins , is an incident that should be investigated . There is another speed , $ V _ { NE } $ , the " never exceed speed " , which is somewhat higher and which marks the point where things start to get dangerous . When the aircraft exceeds $ V _ { NE } $ , <URL> may develop that will destroy the aircraft and/or important parts may break off as the <URL> becomes higher than what they are designed for . Also these speeds have their <URL> counterparts ² , $ M _ { MO } $ and $ M _ { NE } $ . At high altitude , the same indicated airspeed ( IAS ) corresponds to much higher true air-speed , since indicated airspeed decreases with pressure , while the same Mach number corresponds to slightly lower true air-speed , since speed of sound only depends on temperature . So at high altitudes , the Mach limits are reached first while at low altitudes the IAS limits are . Exceeding the $ M _ { NE } $ has different effect , though also dangerous . Above that speed flow separation occurs above the wing due to supersonic speed of the flow . This leads to loss of lift and significant down-pitching moment ( a.k.a <URL> ) , which aircraft not designed for supersonic flight may not have enough elevator authority to compensate . ¹ The airspeeds are given as <URL> , the speed measured by pitot probes , so they can be directly compared to the indication in cockpit ( aircraft with <URL> ( " glass cockpit " ) usually correct those measurement errors that can be estimated , showing so called <URL> ) . However it may not be just a simple number but may be tabulated depending on other parameters . In particular $ V _ { NE } $ and $ V _ { MO } $ may depend on altitude , because <URL> depends on <URL> and at lower density ( due to lower pressure at altitude ) the same TAS corresponds to lower <URL> / <URL> / <URL> . ² Mach number is true airspeed as fraction of speed of sound . In this case the limiting factor is formation of shockwaves due to the flow speed locally exceeding speed of sound around some parts of the aircraft .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
How does yaw relate to pitch ? There are four forces at play on a single engine aircraft that can cause turning tenancies or Yaw . The main reason a single-engine propeller aircraft yaws left at T/O is due to Asymmetrical Thrust ( P-Factor ) . At high angles of attack the right side of the propeller disc creates more thrust than the left side and this causes Yaw to the left . Gyroscopic Precession causes a yaw to the right when an aircraft is suddenly pitched up ( tail is lowered or nose is raised ) and a yaw to the left when an aircraft is suddenly pitched down . ( tail is raised or nose is lowered ) . This force is only apparent while the aircraft 's Pitch is changing , once the pitching action is stopped , the force is gone . ( not present in a steady nose up climb ) Slipstream effect causes a slight yaw to the left , and slight roll to the right . Engine torque causes a roll to the left . Most single engine aircraft today have a clockwise spinning propeller . All these forces would be the opposite if it were a counter-clockwise spinning propeller . A more detailed explanation can be found here : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Does normal laws apply when the aircraft nose is vertically down ? Yes , always . Physics does n't care much about the aircraft 's attitude and can not be switched into different modes . While the nose points straight down , a stall is hard to achieve since no lift is needed - the weight is balanced by drag and inertia . However , when you pull abruptly and start to pitch up , the aircraft can stall while the overall attitude is still partially nose-down . If the pitch inertia is small , the rotation about the lateral axis will increase the angle of attack quickly while the flight path is still more or less straight down . At this attitude the stall angle of attack can be exceeded and the aircraft will stall . This is not unusual - pilots are routinely warned not to pull too hard after ending a spin . And yes , entering the next spin is entirely possible . This is especially likely when the sideslip angle has not been set to zero after ending the first spin . In most cases , this second , unintended , spin is in the opposite direction from the first spin because the pilot maintained his anti-spin rudder deflection for too long . There have even been cases of <URL> . A few details will help , though . A high pitch rate will delay the stall to an angle of attack <URL> than the <URL> at zero pitch rate . Flying faster will increase the Reynolds number , so stall is slightly delayed when compared to the stall conditions at 1g . Both effects , however , will increase the wing root bending moment , and pulling out of a dive will run a real risk of breaking off the wings when you pull too hard .
Induction ice can be a problem for jet engines . Other answers have explained how the ice forms . The air expands and cools in the inlet before entering the engine . The first stages of the compressor do not compress the air enough yet to warm it enough to prevent ice from forming . Low power settings can also make it easier for ice to form . Certain atmospheric conditions make ice more likely to form . The FAA released <URL> , which " provides guidance and acceptable methods , but not the only methods , for demonstrating compliance with the applicable engine induction system icing and engine ice ingestion requirements . " This describes different types of icing , and the effects it can have on engines . It also describes how engines should be tested to conform to the regulations for these conditions . Ice can form in various places : The fan or compressor blades themselves Vanes Sensors Bleed ducts This ice can cause various problems : The ice can come off and damage engine components downstream The ice will reduce the effectiveness of blades , making it harder for the engine to compress the air The ice can impede the flow of air in the engine The ice can block sensors , preventing the control system from correctly monitoring the engine , which can lead to power loss or instability One form of icing that has been an issue lately is ice crystal icing . This is caused by small ice crystals in the upper atmosphere , particularly above convective clouds . <URL> . This type of icing does not appear on radar due to its low reflectivity , and neither the airplane ice detector nor visual indications reliably indicate the presence of icing conditions . Therefore , it is often undetected by the flight crew . Flight in these conditions can cause ice crystals to accumulate in the core gas flow path of the engine . There were previous events on GE CF6-80 engines ( used on 747 , 767 , A310 , A330 , and others ) that the FAA looked into . In the events leading to those prior ADs , the ice has shed during throttle transients and in the descent phase of flight , causing temporary thrust loss . However , there have been <URL> which have been more serious . The new events that prompted this AD , however , have occurred during the cruise phase of flight and caused permanent damage ( beyond maintenance manual limits ) to the engine compressor . In all thrust loss events , data indicate that ice crystals entered and collected in the initial stages of the compressor . Engine temperature data indicate small ice accretions were shed through the core of the engine . The engine manufacturers are working to resolve the issues on the aircraft currently affected , and in the meantime <URL> to avoid weather conditions where ice crystals tend to form . More definitively , the AD includes immediate mitigating procedures for the affected aircraft which prohibit flight within 50nm of amber and red radar returns that are displayed below the aircraft 's flight path during operations at or above 30,000 ft , when approaching , or in , IMC or visible moisture . Note : Boeing has also published an updated Flight Crew Operations Manual Bulletin with specific operating procedures for flight crews .
I 'll answer it from the FAA since that 's what I know . The <URL> is pretty clear on the matter here ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft . However if you want to split the cost evenly , you can : ( c ) A private pilot may not pay less than the pro rata share of the operating expenses of a flight with passengers , provided the expenses involve only fuel , oil , airport expenditures , or rental fees . For what it 's worth I would say you can still operate under Part 91 in the case you have outlined . Basically the FAA prevents a PPL holder from receiving any kind of compensation for a flight . <URL> talks about some of the points that the FAA discussed when shutting down these services . The issue with some of these sharing services is that the middle man ( AirPooler ) and the like <URL> , this seems like the aspect that the FAA had an issue with since although the pilot was not profiting per se , someone was , this seems to be the FAA trigger . I do n't know much about the deep aspects of the law but I 'm sure there are things that can also arise with being a middleman/deal broker of these kinds of things .
If you were willing to travel to the US ( which is not all that uncommon to get a pilots license ) and get your license under the FAA regulations you could do it as per the regulations , <URL> ( a ) The person shall demonstrate acceptable hearing by at least one of the following tests : ( 1 ) Demonstrate an ability to hear an average conversational voice in a quiet room , using both ears , at a distance of 6 feet from the examiner , with the back turned to the examiner . ( 2 ) Demonstrate an acceptable understanding of speech as determined by audiometric speech discrimination testing to a score of at least 70 percent obtained in one ear or in a sound field environment . ( 3 ) Provide acceptable results of pure tone audiometric testing of unaided hearing acuity according to the following table of worst acceptable thresholds , using the calibration standards of the American National Standards Institute , 1969 : The way this is written if you can score at least 70 % in one ear on the audiometric speech discrimination test you should be good to go . Note this is for a class 3 medical with will not allow you to fly commercial operations . I am not sure how the new basic med requirements fall into all this but your best if you have specific questions is to contact an <URL> . From a practical standpoint , the cockpit of most small planes is fairly defining already and the headsets take mono signals from the radios so I do n't really see how the lack of binaural hearing would present any issue .
What is turbulence ? Turbulence is random and stochastic Each realization of a turbulent flow is unique and fluctuations in velocity are very irregular in space and time . dissipative Turbulence can not maintain itself and will decay into laminar flow without energy input from the environment ( e.g. mean shear in the velocity field or buoyancy ) . Reducing viscosity in a flow does not remove dissipation , it just moves dissipation to ever decreasing scales . diffusive A time-averaged scalar transported in a turbulent flow will have larger plume than that of a laminar flow . For example , if you injected a dye into a smooth flowing river and one into a turbulent flowing river , the dye plume would cover a larger area in the turbulent flow . three dimensional 3D vortex dynamics play a very important role in turbulence and for most cases you can not represent a turbulent flow as a 2D problem . occuring on a wide range of scales This is perhaps the most important distinction . When I say scale , I am referring to a characteristic length and velocity of an eddy , or swirl . Turbulence is produced at larger scales and the transfers its energy to smaller and smaller scales . At some ( very small ) scale , dissipation starts happening and the turbulence decays . A feature of a turbulent flow is energy at all scales , which basically means there are whirls of all sizes and it is the interaction between all of these swirls that gives turbulence . How does it happen ? The main production of turbulence is through mechanical production and buoyant production . Turbulence happens because energy is being put into it via these production methods . Turbulence will decay on its own but will not stop until production ceases . Mechanical production can be envisioned as a shear flow , or air of two different speeds interfacing . This can also be wind against a wall , or around some object . The velocity gradient at the periphery of the jetstream is a shear flow , and the boundary layer that we live in is a sheared environment on most days . Buoyant production is through buoyancy . Relatively warm parcels rise and this is balanced by subsidence and if you follow these thermals and the descent between them and squint hard enough , you can envision eddies on the largest scales . Both of these methods put energy into turbulence at large scales . For boundary layer flows , this can be on the order of a kilometer or more , typically the height of the boundary layer . These big eddies will have perturbations of their own and these smaller perturbations are the next smaller scale . Energy is cascaded downward until the sizes of the eddies are small enough that viscosity dominates over inertial forces and the energy is then lost from the turbulence as heating . The superpositioning of these eddies at all scales resembles a jumbled bumpy mess , and this is precisely how we experience turbulence .
end question
start question
Why are US Regional Airline starting wages so low ?
You need to look at turn-of-the-century early industrial age history for your answer . Factories were filled with skilled workers who could weave or smith or do some other specialty with great speed . These were not unskilled workers by modern standards , but their skills were common in those days . The efficient factories lowered prices for those products , making those skills less valuable . The workers were dependent on that factory for their livelihood , they could not easily find work outside the factory . If they grew up in that factory town , they likely had no other skills . There were few factories of their kind they could work in , and no unions or labor laws . Airline pilots are in a similar situation . While airline mechanics can quit and maintain power plants or trucks with a little training , pilots are stuck with now three major airlines and a handful of regional airlines . They have no skills that can cross over to another industry . Their unions can not strike or even hint at a job action expressing their discontent . But the airlines can outsource their jobs to cheaper pilots , and have done so with over half their pilot jobs over the past decade . Those cheaper pilots are disappearing , as the major airlines start hiring , and young people realize what the career of an airline pilot has become . This has been leading up to a pilot shortage for many years , and the efforts to stave off that shortage have resulted in fewer pilots getting trained every year . The result will certainly be a wave of much higher pay , but it wo n't change the underlying cause . The wave of young people who rush into the career when the pay skyrockets will certainly see their pay drop again , along with layoffs and working the bottom jobs , when the airlines have enough pilots and hit another down decade . Oh , and $ 17k is a little more than Skywest , Republic , American Eagle , Great Lakes , and other entry-level carriers pay their new-hires for the first several years . Sorry .
The pilot does n't retract the spoilers until the airplane has slowed down considerably , at the speed it 's traveling at that point the spoilers would be adding no benefits so there 's no point keeping them deployed .
You are missing the weight force . The wing should stall first because then it will produce less lift and the weight will make the aircraft pitch down . In attached flow , the lift from wing and tail is <URL> such that the combined resulting force is acting exactly at the longitudinal position of the center of gravity . If the wing stalls , the balance of lift is shifted backwards ( regardless of the tail producing lift or a downforce ) , because now the forward part of the wing-tail-combination will produce proportionally less lift than it did in attached flow . The center of gravity will then be ahead of the resulting lift force and will pull the nose of the aircraft down . A tail stall is bad news for the pilot and should be avoided : A stalled tail will have much less elevator effectivity , reducing the control power available to the pilot A stalled tail at high angle of attack is stalling at maximum lift , so it produced positive lift before . If it stalls , its lift will shrink and make the aircraft pitch up . In a conventional configuration the tail flies in the flow field of the wing . Because the wing 's <URL> , the angle of attack variations at the tail are reduced . This helps to keep the flow at the tail attached over the whole useable angle of attack range of the wing . A tail stall is either caused by a wrong location of the center of gravity ( CG ) or by a very poor transsonic design which causes <URL> when the wing is still doing fine . Very rarely can you stall the tail by a wrong trim setting when a <URL> , or in a <URL> . Some supersonic aircraft compensate for the backward shift of the center of lift in supersonic flow by pumping fuel from forward to rear . If an airplane with such a rear CG location slows down to subsonic speed , it will need to produce proportionally more lift with the tail than with the wing . If it now pitches up ( say , for a tight turn ) it will risk a tail stall . Note that such a configuration is <URL> at subsonic speed . EDIT : Now you define the center of gravity as ahead of the wing , which makes for a very stable configuration . The tail is producing a downforce to compensate the pitch-down action of the wing 's lift . If the wing stalls first , lift will become less than weight and the aircraft will accelerate downwards . Now the angle of attack will increase at both the tail and the wing ; at the tail even for two reasons : The downward acceleration will change the local flow direction to a larger angle of attack , and The diminished downwash from the wing will cause an angle of attack increase of its own at the tail . This effect takes a little longer to manifest itself : The delay is the distance between the quarter points of tail and wing divided by the airspeed . Both effects will quickly create a dominant pitch-down moment for the aircraft because the tail will contribute much less downforce than before the stall , and the diminished pitch-down moment of the wing will become insignificant .
Where can the requirements for US aircraft registration be found ? The registration procedure is outlined in <URL> . See also the <URL> . 3 . The owner of an aircraft must apply to the Aircraft Registration Branch , P.O. Box 25504 , Oklahoma City , Oklahoma 73125-0504 , to obtain a certificate of registration . The applicant must submit an Aircraft Registration Application , AC Form 8050-1 , accompanied by evidence of ownership and a $ 5 registration fee . Requirements for registration of aircraft are contained in the <URL> ( For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 . ) Basically , the registrant ( whether an individual or a corporation , trustee , etc. , all of which are defined in Part 47 ) must be able to prove legal ownership of the airplane . What is the penalty for flying an aircraft without a valid registration ? The violator would be subject to any of the <URL> : administrative action ( a " Warning Notice " or " Letter of Correction " which goes on your record ) , reexamination ( " 709 ride " ) , certification action ( suspension or revocation ) , or civil/criminal penalties . The exact penalty would likely depend on the circumstances : whether the violation was intentional and the degree of the pilot 's negligence under the FARs . What should someone do if they believe an aircraft to be operating without valid registration , and how could they determine this ? The <URL> reporting FAR violations by calling the FAA 's toll-free telephone number , 1-866-TELL-FAA .
A lot depends on how low you are and what aircraft you 're flying , but any low-level flight has some risks and difficulties . Here are some , I 'm sure there are others : If the aircraft loses power you have much less time and distance available to execute a forced landing , and your choice of landing sites will be more limited You ca n't see as far ahead so it 's more difficult to look out for obstacles and <URL> may also be more difficult in some circumstances You may accidentally break the law on minimum safe flying height because the terrain changes too quickly , you do n't see an obstacle or town until it 's too late etc. . There 's a greater risk of collision with terrain or obstacles like radio towers , especially if your aircraft is a fast one and you have less time to react The likelihood of both thermal and mechanical turbulence is higher when flying low , increasing risks of loss of control and collision with terrain and obstacles If you 're <URL> in VMC there 's a high risk of <URL> , which is extremely dangerous ( incidentally , despite the title of that question , even instrument-rated pilots have a poor safety record when they enter IMC unintentionally ) Radio reception may be poor ATC radar may not be able to see you Your engine may not operate very efficiently That 's not to say that low-level flying is always a bad idea , but it I think it does require more preparation , alertness and even local knowledge from the pilot .
Update Everything in the second section ( my original answer ) used to be true ( well , except for the first statement ) , but does n't consider that the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 made this regulatory . The FAA has <URL> that discuss it in more detail , but here is an image that covers the basics : There is also a <URL> from the FAA which discusses their ability to enforce the regulation and many other parts of 14 CFR 91 if a model aircraft endangers another aircraft , flies within 5 miles of an airport without receiving a clearance , flies into a restricted area , etc. . The short version is that it is n't regulated ( yet ) . For more details , read on . FAA has an <URL> page on their website which addresses this : Do I need permission from the FAA to fly a UAS for recreation or as a hobby ? There are two ways for recreational or hobby UAS fliers to operate in the National Airspace System in accordance with the law and/or FAA regulations . ... Option # 1 . Fly in accordance with the Special Rule for Model Aircraft ( Public Law 112-95 Section 336 ) . Under this rule , operators must : Fly for hobby or recreational purposes only Follow a community-based set of safety guidelines Fly the UAS within visual line-of-sight Give way to manned aircraft Provide prior notification to the airport and air traffic control tower , if one is present , when flying within 5 miles of an airport Fly UAS that weigh no more than 55 lbs . unless certified by a community-based organization Register the aircraft ( UAS over 0.55 lbs . and less than 55 lbs . can be registered online at registermyuas.faa.gov ; UAS 55 lbs . or greater must be registered through the FAA 's paper-based process ) The other option is to obtain a pilot certificate and <URL> The FAA has also published an Advisory Circular <URL> , which states : 1 - PURPOSE . This advisory circular ( AC ) provides guidance to persons operating Unmanned Aircraft ( UA ) for hobby or recreation purposes meeting the statutory definition of " model aircraft " contained in Section 336 of Public Law 112-95 , the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 . This AC describes means by which model aircraft may be operated safely in the National Airspace System ( NAS ) . Nothing in this AC changes the requirement to comply with the statute or any applicable regulations . ... 6 - MODEL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS . ... b. Model Aircraft Hazards in the NAS . While aero-modelers generally are concerned about safety and exercise good judgment when flying model aircraft for the hobby and recreational purposes for which they are intended , they may share the airspace in which manned aircraft are operating . Unmanned aircraft , including model aircraft , may pose a hazard to manned aircraft in flight and to persons and property on the surface if not operated safely . Model aircraft operations that endanger the safety of the National Airspace System , particularly careless or reckless operations or those that interfere with or fail to give way to any manned aircraft may be subject to FAA enforcement action . c. Determination of " Model Aircraft " Status . Whether a given unmanned aircraft operation may be considered a " model aircraft operation " is determined with reference to section 336 of Public Law 112-95 : ( 1 ) The aircraft is flown strictly for hobby or recreational use ; ( 2 ) The aircraft operates in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ( CBO ) ; ( 3 ) The aircraft is limited to not more than 55 pounds , unless otherwise certified through a design , construction , inspection , flight test , and operational safety program administered by a CBO ; ( 4 ) The aircraft operates in a manner that does not interfere with , and gives way to , any manned aircraft ; and ( 5 ) When flown within 5 miles of an airport , the operator of the model aircraft provides the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) with prior notice of the operation . Model aircraft operators flying from a permanent location within 5 miles of an airport should establish a mutually agreed upon operating procedure with the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) . d. Public Law 112-95 recognizes the authority of the Administrator to pursue enforcement action against persons operating model aircraft who endanger the safety of the National Airspace System . Accordingly , model aircraft operators must comply with any Temporary Flight Restrictions ( TFR ) . ... Model aircraft must not operate in Prohibited Areas , Special Flight Rule Areas or , the Washington National Capital Region Flight Restricted Zone , without specific authorization . e. Model aircraft operators should follow best practices including limiting operations to 400 feet above gro
I can give you lots of reasons , but as with most things they all really boil down to one : MONEY . Perhaps the first challenge with preserving any classic warbirds in airworthy " flying exhibit " condition is finding one , but let 's assume you can locate a mostly-intact Avro Lancaster ( in a field somewhere , or as a static display at a museum that has n't done anything to it that would render it unflyable ) . The next major hurdle is restoring it to airworthy condition economically : A side effect of their role in the military is that these aircraft are flown hard ( they have to accomplish their mission and a little airframe stress or engine damage in the process is OK as long as you still get it back home in mostly-serviceable condition for repair ) , and of course they do tend to get shot at ( 9 out of 10 structural engineers surveyed agreed that bullet holes are a Bad Thing for airworthiness ; The 10th wet himself and ran out screaming ) . They 've also been sitting around for decades suffering the effects of time ( corrosion ) . Once you find the aircraft you have to determine what repairs it will require to render the airframe airworthy . You will probably be replacing skin panels , control cables , hydraulic and pneumatic lines , etc. at the very least . The longer it 's sat , and the worse the environment , the higher the chance of more major repairs ( structural corrosion requiring ribs or spars to be replaced/spliced ) , and as these aircraft are out of production there are some parts you ca n't just get off the shelf : Custom fabrication for skins , control surfaces , ribs , etc. adds to the price tag . Once the airframe is addressed you can look to the engines , since an aircraft without a powerplant is still just a static display . Much like with the airframe you may find engine parts are hard to come by ( the two airworthy B-29s , <URL> and <URL> , both required a lot of effort to get working engines ) . Now that you have a working engine you need to outfit the cockpit -- Many of the instruments the aircraft originally shipped with were likely pulled by the military or intervening owners as service spares for other flying aircraft , so what 's left in the cockpit may be non-functional or so obsolete as to be useless . If you want an aircraft you can safely/legally fly to shows you 'll probably need to invest tens-of-thousands of dollars in outfitting it with instruments and radios that are some functional combination of " authentic " and " modern " . Finally once it 's all assembled , airworthy , and navigable you still have to pay to operate and maintain it like any other aircraft . When you 're talking about a Lancaster with 4 fat engines on it you 're racking up quite a fuel bill ( and burning a good amount of oil with it ) . The engines will of course need routine maintenance ( oil changes , etc. ) and eventually things will wear out or break , requiring repairs and leaving you with the " out-of-production parts " issues again . Most of the " big " flying warbirds like the two airworthy B-29s and the two airworthy Lancasters are maintained by organizations that do it as a labor of love &amp; out of respect for the history of these aircraft , but they do not have unlimited funding and there are n't a large number of near-airworthy airframes to choose from for these projects ( with the pool of available hulks ever-dwindling ) , so in that respect there 's certainly a financial factor as to why there are n't more of these flying . Psychologically there 's also probably something about having " at least two " airworthy examples flying that may make folks look at restoring a different type as well : Having two flying examples of aircraft from this period provides a decent level of insurance in so much as if one is lost in an accident or develops a problem that ca n't be fixed at least there 's still the other one flying . ( When FiFi was the only flying B-29 there were some folks who felt it should n't be flown , as an accident would cost the only airworthy example . Doc joining the flight line has muted some of those objections . )
It 's not so much that thrust reversers ( TRs ) are more unreliable than other components of the plane . However , they have a very important impact on the airplane 's performance . Hydraulics , flaps , and even engines fail regularly . But <URL> and <URL> can be backed up by redundant systems , and an airplane can still <URL> . But engineers learned from <URL> that an airplane may not be controllable if the TRs deploy in flight . So in the interest of safety , the TRs have additional precautions . The reasons for not aborting a landing after they are deployed are discussed in your first linked question . Reliability is also not the only reason for having no TRs on the A380 outboard engines , as discussed in the second linked question . So to answer your question , there is indeed a technical challenge in making the TRs reliable : they absolutely must not deploy in flight . This means many safeguards are put in place , and they are designed to fail by not deploying if there is any doubt about whether it is safe . A TR that wo n't deploy is more desirable than a TR that deploys when you do n't want it to .
The Local Area Augmentation System was the FAA term for the Ground Based Augmentation System ( GBAS ) , which is an International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) standardized system for local area differential systems . The FAA has migrated to the ICAO term GBAS , though Several historical FAA documents still retain the LAAS terminology . According to the <URL> page , Currently , two U.S. locations have obtained operational approval for public GBAS use and support revenue airline traffic . These stations are located at Newark Liberty International Airport ( EWR ) and Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) . According to FAA , development of GBAS continues and , The FAA and other States are in the process of validating proposed ICAO GBAS standards to support Category III ( CAT-III ) precision approach operations . The FAA expects ICAO will approve GAST-D Standards and Recommended Practices in 2015 Also , The FAA continues to validate the GBAS CAT-III requirements as part of the Next Generation Air Transportation System ( commonly known as NextGen ) . The FAA has currently deferred any Federal acquisition decision on GBAS . Also , though GBAS and WAAS are mutually exclusive at present , some future aircraft like A350 are expected to support both GBAS and WAAS .
Here are a few ideas : First and foremost , we 're not handling metals here . Composites have the advantage of being able to be made stronger by adding on a few layers around high-stress area like windows . This was difficult with metals since this needed some sort of fasteners or adhesives to do . This reinforcement is seen in the photo below . The windows are designed to keep an even pressure all around in the context of the fuselage shape at that point . You 'll notice the flange design which keeps the fuselage shape and stop it from popping open . This is a little like the thicker part of a bottle neck . This is very difficult ( if possible ) to do well in a metal fuselage to this extent . <URL> The usage is completely different . Concorde was a commercial aircraft , intended for many years of operation . This is a very low-cycle aircraft which will see a fraction of that flying . The number of pressurisation cycles is a lot lower , putting much less force on the windows . As for safety , the style of flying is completely different . Probably flown by test pilots , the aircraft might never even experience rain and will fly under very predictable conditions , with very few flight cycles . Periods of elevated temperatures gradually degrades many materials , this is much less a concern with short flights . If I gather correctly this is the main issue with sustained high-speed flight , as seen on Concorde and SR-71 and other aircraft . <URL> Composites have a lot lower thermal expansion ( CFRP vs. Aluminium is an order of magnitude lower ) which reduces issues with expansion in the fuselage . Concorde was a commercial aircraft with weight and operating price in mind . This aircraft is built for this purpose , with the windows considered as a main feature from the start . You could probably have been able to make the windows a lot larger on Concorde , at the unacceptable price of weight , production and operating cost . Needless to say that knowledge of materials and structures has advanced substantially , all our these features can be modelled in detail on computers , not necessitating the traditional conservative approach . As for redundancy , predecessor SpaceShipOne had double pane windows and double seals everywhere . For the passengers without suits , if a window were to blow entirely , you 're most probably out of luck .
Airplanes are expected by air traffic control to turn at a " standard rate of turn " which is 3 degrees per second . This will provide a 90 degree turn in 30 seconds . A standard rate is used so that controllers can anticipate how long it takes for an airplane to turn to a heading and they can line them up easier . It also makes the turn happen in a smaller amount of airspace so that two airplanes can be flying in the same general vicinity without getting too close . Unfortunately , at the speeds that jet airplanes travel this would mean a very high angle of bank . A standard rate turn at 200 KT TAS is about 30 degrees of bank and jets can go much faster than this , which would require even higher bank angles . They actually limit it to 25 degrees of bank when using a flight director , mainly for passenger comfort . It can be impressive when looking out the window and seeing the ground , but do n't worry , the airplane is more than designed for it ! This is used mainly at lower altitudes where there are lots of airplanes . Once they are up high and airplanes are further apart ( and the turns are also usually smaller ) they can bank even less ( by using a " half-bank " mode ) which adds to passenger comfort .
<URL> In short The longer time required to align an inertial unit is the price to pay for its independency on any external equipment or signal , but Earth itself . A GPS receiver is faster , but is only one small piece in a huge system . The GPS ground segment ( control and monitoring stations ) and space segment ( satellites ) are necessary for the GPS receivers ( user segment in the jargon ) to work . They have multiple possibilities to fail , this critical dependency can not be afforded by an aviation navigation system , GPS must be backed up , and this is done using inertial ( can be INS , IRS , IMU or combined with air data units like ADIRU ) . During inertial alignment the unit accurately senses local vertical and true north ( actually Earth polar axis ) . The problem is that sensing true north requires knowing latitude , and determining latitude requires knowing true north . This is solved using successive approximations of both data -- fortunately this iteration is convergent -- until the desired precision has been achieved . It 's slow because Earth rotation produces tiny effects at small time scale , and we have n't found more practical sensors yet . The effects depends on the distance from the rotation axis , larger at the equator than at the poles . While GPS relies also on very <URL> , they can be easily retrieved by digital signal processing as soon as the random generator algorithm and seed are known . An IRS provides the position like a GPS receiver . IRS also provides the horizontal plane ( attitude reference ) and the north direction which are inaccessible to the GPS alone . This is another reason inertial systems are still used . <URL> Details Gimballed vs strapdown Gimballed inertial systems principle is simple : Accelerometers are maintained oriented with Earth using a gimballed platform , and all measurements are done in the Earth reference system . In strapdown inertial systems , accelerometers and ( laser/optical ) rate gyros are aligned in the aircraft reference system , and measurements are done related to this system . Except this difference , the principles for alignment are quite the same . <URL> Overall principle of a strapdown inertial system , <URL> Old gimballed inertial are longer to align because gimballed gyroscopes are less precise than fixed laser gyros . For the explanations , let 's assume a gimballed stable platform . The alignment consists of getting the Earth orientation and speed , and inertial unit initial position . After alignment , current speed , attitude and heading will be determined by integrating accelerations and rotation rates and adding the result to the initial values . Alignment time vs accuracy obtained Alignment aims to determine two axis : Vertical of the location ( direction of gravity ) and true north azimuth ( parallel to Earth rotation axis ) . For this phase , both accelerometers and gyroscopes are used . While vertical is relatively easy to determine with accelerometers , true north direction direct determination is not possible : True north direction can not be sensed without knowing local latitude , and latitude can not be determined without knowing the direction of true north . The practical way to proceed is : Set an initial value for latitude ( it can be assumed ) , determine approximate north direction . Knowing approximate north , determine approximate latitude . From approximate latitude , refine north direction , etc. . See detailed inertial principle and alignment process in : <URL> . Accuracy of true north bearing increases with alignment time : <URL> Source : <URL> Alignment requires the unit to be motionless , hence any erratic motion decreases inertial signal/noise ratio which slows this process ( passengers boarding , wind acting on the tail surfaces , etc ) . Inertial does n't need external equipment or signal Inertial is a stand alone device , completely independent of any external equipment or man-made signal . It relies only on Earth rotation speed and gravity . That 's why it 's still used for navigation in spite of existing radio aids and GPS ( GPS is actually another radio aid ) . <URL> Today , inertial is mostly used to backup GNSS One may wonder why inertial systems are still used at the GPS era , in spite of their limited accuracy and long alignment procedure . The main reason is that you can not blindly rely on GPS constellation availability . Let 's list some of the possible failures . GPS is the US solution for satellite positioning or <URL> . While defense organizations can obtain credits for different reasons , the difficulty to set up a civilian GNSS has been striking with the numerous delays encountered building <URL> , the European GNSS . It needs to design , launch and maintain the satellite constellation ( more than 20 satellites are required for accuracy and availability ) . The constellation must be permanently monitored and controlled from ground stations all over the World . GNSS signal can be perturbed by natural phenomena : <URL> , weather and volcanic ashes may partially or totally
No . It has nothing to do with the configuration , but the structure , the engine and the fuel system of your aircraft . The SportCruiser is certified in the <URL> ( LSA ) category and is meant for flying right-side-up . For aerobatics , you need a fuel system than can still feed the engine when the <URL> , an engine which can still lubricate all moving parts when it is experiencing a negative load factor , and a structure which can tolerate higher load factors than what you can expect from cruising along at 115 kts max in fair weather . The wing location has no impact on aerobatic fitness . You might even argue that the unrestricted view up in a low wing aircraft helps to see better what is ahead in steep turns .
It 's not so much a matter of " pilots typically get very uncomfortable " as it is " pilots recognize that it is an inherently less safe situation " , and pilots ( at least the ones you want to fly with ) tend to be somewhat safety obsessed . So Why are tailwinds during landing " bad " ? The same reason tailwinds in cruise flight are good : you 're moving over the ground at a higher speed . The amount of energy the aircraft has ( and thus its landing distance ) is roughly proportional to the square of the groundspeed . Let 's consider the plane I fly as an example ( a <URL> ) because I know the numbers : if I 'm flying by the book then when the wheels of my plane hit the ground my indicated airspeed should be around 45 knots . No Wind If there 's no wind my ground speed and my indicated airspeed will be about the same - my brakes will have to slow me from 45 knots to a stop before I run out of runway . The brakes on the Cherokee are n't Porsche brakes ( they 're tiny little things ) , but they 're up to the task and a book-perfect landing would have me stopped in 600 feet . 15-Knot Headwind A 15 knot headwind reduces my groundspeed to 30 knots - at 2/3 the speed I can stop much sooner with the same braking force , which means less wear on the brakes and a greater safety margin of runway remaining . A book-perfect landing in these conditions would have me stopped in about 270 feet . 15-knot Tailwind A 15 knot tailwind increases my groundspeed to 60 knots . The tiny little brakes on the Cherokee CAN stop me , but they 're going to take much longer to do so : A book-perfect landing would take over 1000 feet to stop ( nearly twice the " normal " no-wind landing roll ) . The big consideration above is landing distance -- as you noted in your question you can solve that with a longer runway ( more pavement means more room to stop ) , but there are other dangers with tailwind landings , mainly in the fact that Landings do n't always go according to plan . The slower your groundspeed at landing the less energy you have to get rid of if something goes wrong Consider the three landings I outlined above , but let 's add a problem to the mix : One of my tires blows right at touchdown , and the plane veers off the runway into a ditch . There is much less energy to dissipate with a 15-knot headwind ( 30kt groundspeed ) than there is with a 15-knot tailwind ( 60kt groundspeed ) - it 's roughly the difference between crashing your car driving through a school zone versus speeding on a highway . Fortunately it 's really easy to avoid landing with a tailwind -- most runways are bidirectional ( Aspen , which you mentioned in your question , is a notable exception due to geography ) . ATC ( or at uncontrolled fields , the pilots themselves ) will " turn the airport around " once a certain tailwind limit is reached . Precisely when that happens depends on the airport and the traffic mix ( at my home field , with mostly small piston aircraft , ATC will typically switch the runway when the tailwind component exceeds 5 knots - at JFK they might land a jet with a 10-knot tailwind rather than messing up the arrivals ) . Of course there 's nothing that says a pilot has to accept a landing with a tailwind : If the pilot is not comfortable with the conditions they can request a runway aligned so the winds are more favorable . ( There is a <URL> who ultimately decided to declare an emergency to ensure a landing on a favorable runway ) .
Some very spot-on comments , some comments that are totally ignorant of the job . I am a retired ATC , 32 years . I worked at one of the world 's busiest and most complex US facilities ( as described by many independent sources ) . Have you ever : Heard a family on the other end of the radio screaming just moments before they were obliterated in the air by a military fighter flying VFR ? Tried in vain to find a way to contact the occupants of Payne Stewart 's jet only to watch helplessly as it finally crashes after several hours of flight ? Had 30 + airliners in your sector which happens to be dotted with Level 5 thunderstorms ? The amount of airspace you now have has decreased substantially and the aircraft all need to deviate . They all want to either go in different directions , or they all want to head towards the few clear spots left . You sit there for 2 hours directing aircraft to basically thread a needle at 500mph and pulling out every trick in your book to ensure that there is enough space to ensure all 30 + aircraft ( and more , because those aircraft never stop coming ) make it through your airspace without encountering the dangers of severe weather or coming into physical contact with another aircraft . Aircraft that are often executing movements that they do n't have clearance for , which requires quick and accurate reaction from the controller . Dealt with one of the times when a corporate jet " flames out " at 43,000 feet and immediately descends through a dozen or more jets flying the same path , requiring the controller to immediately clear all of those aircraft out of the path of that corporate jet . Had a small twin prop lose all electronics and be unable to navigate properly while in a thick cloud layer . His portable radio is not working properly , so radio communications must be short and accurate . ( Remember , you have another sector full of aircraft that you are also providing services to ) . Finally , his portable radio fail . Right before that , you ask the pilot if he has a cell phone . He does . You give him a phone number and you and he are able to communicate via telephone to finally guide him to a safe landing at Newport News Airport . I could write a book about many specific events that controllers have experienced . The " pucker factor " events . But the real stress is the long term chronic stress that the job presents . Certainly , there are facilities that are both low traffic and have uncomplicated operations . If you are lucky enough to work at one of these ( and willing to accept the low end of the pay scale ) then stress is probably much lower and stressful events infrequent . But for the majority of controllers ( who work at a number of very high traffic facilities ; air traffic in the US is higher and more complicated than the next 29 countries ' air traffic , combined ) the stress is a chronic , continuous level ( not the big adrenalin-pumping situations ) from being attached to your position for several hours , trying to maintain a constant " big picture " , maintaining situational awareness , issuing control instructions to ensure that SAFETY is always the first product of your efforts . Many , if not most , controllers will most likely retire with high blood pressure , diabetes , sleep disorders , etc. that despite best efforts to exercise and live a healthy lifestyle will probably affect a controller for the remainder of their life . Certainly , other jobs are stressful , and I would never try to compare one as " more stressful " than the other . The top ones are all stressful . But those that try to downplay the stress of air traffic control would only need to visit a busy air traffic control facility for a day and they would see and probably feel the stress themselves . I have a very good friend that is an FBI field agent in Washington , DC . He has worked on some very high-profile cases . We were talking one day and he said something about the stress of air traffic control . I chuckled saying that at least I was n't being faced by some of the most dangerous people in the country . But his response was that in his job they have detailed plans for what they do . His raids were in the middle of the night when these people were asleep and unsuspecting . He had a well-trained team that each had specific responsibilities . They had plenty of firepower and protective equipment . He said that most of his operations were quite easy and they experienced little resistance . He did have moments of intensity , but he ( who had visited an air traffic facility ) did not think the stress he experienced was anywhere near to what he saw at the air traffic control facility . But I still would not want to be a law enforcement officer , nor a school teacher for that matter ! My personality was a good match for the job of air traffic control . But now that I am retired , I take blood pressure medicine , am borderline diabetic despite a regular exercise program and am within a healthy weight and eat very healthy . I also still have sleep apnea and
You need to look at turn-of-the-century early industrial age history for your answer . Factories were filled with skilled workers who could weave or smith or do some other specialty with great speed . These were not unskilled workers by modern standards , but their skills were common in those days . The efficient factories lowered prices for those products , making those skills less valuable . The workers were dependent on that factory for their livelihood , they could not easily find work outside the factory . If they grew up in that factory town , they likely had no other skills . There were few factories of their kind they could work in , and no unions or labor laws . Airline pilots are in a similar situation . While airline mechanics can quit and maintain power plants or trucks with a little training , pilots are stuck with now three major airlines and a handful of regional airlines . They have no skills that can cross over to another industry . Their unions can not strike or even hint at a job action expressing their discontent . But the airlines can outsource their jobs to cheaper pilots , and have done so with over half their pilot jobs over the past decade . Those cheaper pilots are disappearing , as the major airlines start hiring , and young people realize what the career of an airline pilot has become . This has been leading up to a pilot shortage for many years , and the efforts to stave off that shortage have resulted in fewer pilots getting trained every year . The result will certainly be a wave of much higher pay , but it wo n't change the underlying cause . The wave of young people who rush into the career when the pay skyrockets will certainly see their pay drop again , along with layoffs and working the bottom jobs , when the airlines have enough pilots and hit another down decade . Oh , and $ 17k is a little more than Skywest , Republic , American Eagle , Great Lakes , and other entry-level carriers pay their new-hires for the first several years . Sorry .
To add to Antzi 's answer it is most likely about worker safety . Your question is where do the 50lbs/23kg and 70lbs/32kg numbers come from . The current answer for US based airports would be the recommendations of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) . Here <URL> to their current lifting standards . There is a neat worksheet down at the bottom for calculating the weight a worker should lift based on the types of movements they have to perform , distances traveled , angles bent . It is a system based on multipliers whose base limit on a normal lift is 51lbs/23 .4 kg . Then 70lbs/32kg would amount to the multipliers all working out to 1.4 which is again a nice round number . I would also speculate that at some points these numbers made it into union contracts for ground workers but I have no actual information on that . What I could n't find were the OSHA regulations that were in force when IATA first enshrined 23 and 32kg into their rules . It is perhaps a bit disappointing that the current OSHA regulations to not have a " max lift " number but their interest is in reducing injury and a single very heavy lift is apparently less damaging than repetitive above average lifts .
The blades are loose in their " Fir Tree " blade mounts so that they can self balance . They are called " fir tree " because they are v shaped . As the rotation speed and centrifugal force increases , they move in the mounts and establish individual lead/lag positions to achieve a balanced disc . It will be understood that turbine wheels rotate at very high speeds of rotation , thereby generating large centirfugal forces tending to throw the blades outwardly from the wheel . By providing contact surfaces of equal and opposite slope with respect to the longitudinal axis of the root on opposite sides of root , the force components of the centrifugal force balance each other out . Periodic and other vibrations which might otherwise be generated are damped out and greatly minimized Source : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Cole Kugel , 105 Born March 14 , 1902 , Cole Kugel , a resident of Longmont , Colorado , USA is the oldest qualified pilot . He was born one year before the legendary Wright Brothers took to the skies , and has been flying ever since . Kugel earned his pilot 's license in 1945 and flew in 2007 for the last time , aged 105 , piloting in the company of local veterinarian Lynn Ferguson in his beloved 1976 Cessna 182 . <URL> <URL> 2005 Photo : Daily Times-Call | Hunter McRae
Because that wing is a cantilevered beam which is now supporting over half the weight of the jet on it . This causes the wing to flex , much like a leaf spring , when loaded . While fascinating to watch this is benign and designed to do this . In addition , this wing flexure helps to absorb bumps , air turbulence , dampen flutter , maneuvering loadings , etc. much like the coil springs in your car 's suspension do . Do n't be alarmed to see this . Those wing structures have been tested to far worse loads and conditions that you will ever see on a revenue carrying flight before failure occurs . A 747 's wingtips can flex by as much as 12ft up/down during flight . Newer composite wings are capable of much greater flexure . This was video shot of Boeing 's destructive testing on the 777 wing . Note the wingtip flexes by as much as 20ft upward at a loading over 150 % that of its design load limits before structural failure occurred .
end question
start question
How to know if an airport has PAPI lights ?
Whether an airport has PAPI lights or not is indicated on the approach charts . For instance <URL> , there is a schematic of the airport at the bottom of page 3 that shows you where the PAPI is on the airfield . If you are looking for airports in France , you can find all visual approach charts on the <URL> . Otherwise , <URL> has various links to approach chart ressources . Edit : If there is not indication concerning the location of the PAPI on the approach chart , you can refer to page 40 of <URL> . The schematic here describes the standard location of the PAPI relatively to the strip .
Here are some things you can do , there are probably more . I 'm assuming you 're mainly interested in checking COM , not NAV . Controlled airport Check if you can hear the ATIS , Ground or Tower ; if you can , then at least you know you can receive . But you might as well just call Ground immediately and ask for a radio check . The <URL> is " how do you hear me ? " : Bowman Ground , N12345 , radio check please . How do you hear me ? Uncontrolled airport Listen to the AWOS , if there is one , to determine if you can receive . Ask UNICOM or another aircraft to give you a radio check . If none of those options are available then you can use a handheld airband transceiver to test . Tune it to the frequency you 're listening on and click transmit a few times , as if you 're turning on pilot-controlled lights ( PCL ) . If you hear the clicks in your headset , you can receive . To test transmission , do the opposite : click the transmit button on the yoke and listen on the handheld . Airborne You could call Approach , Center or FSS ; try activating the nearest PCL ( works best at night ) ; tune and identify a navaid ( that does n't verify COM works , but at least you know something 's working ) ; listen to 121.5 ( <URL> ) because there 's usually some bored pilot asking for sports scores on it and some other equally bored pilot yelling at him to " stop talking on <URL> " . Troubleshooting As always , if you have any problems with transmitting or receiving do some basic troubleshooting first : check you have the correct radio selected ; check you have the correct frequency ; check the volume controls on your headset and/or panel ; turn the squelch up/down/off ; check your headset is plugged in correctly ; if you have a right-seat passenger , see if they can hear/transmit ; and anything else you can think of .
An Aeronautical License issued by the <URL> ( ACMA ) is required in order to operate a handheld aviation-band VHF transceiver in Australia . An aeronautical licence is issued to authorise a station that : is not fixed to an aircraft ; is operated on aeronautical frequencies ; is operated for purposes relating to the operation of an aircraft , or airport or aerodrome operations ; and in relation to an aircraft includes a mobile station operated on board the aircraft or on the ground in communication with aircraft . An aeronautical licence is necessary to authorise the operation of stations providing : air traffic control services ; aerodrome radio information services ; private company radiocommunications ; and other airport or aerodrome services . Reference : <URL> The Australian-based <URL> tutorial website may also provide more useful information . ( Note : This applies for a transceiver -- i.e. transmit &amp; receive -- rules may be different for receive-only ) .
Mainly by the soon to happen descent and landing , probably at a place you were n't expecting to go . :) If you are seated behind the wing , you might be able to see smoke or flames coming out of the engine , but other times it will just quit with no visible indicaion , depending on the cause of the failure . Sometimes ( usually just after takeoff when the airplane is slow ) it is obvious and you can tell by the change in the sound of the airplane ( one side suddenly gets quiet or there might be a loud bang depending on why it failed ) , a sudden yaw in one direction ( the nose pulls to one side ) , and an abrupt pitching down of the nose ( done by the pilot to maintain flying speed ) . Other times ( like during a descent with plenty of speed and the engines at idle , or when the center engine of a three engine airplane fails ) it can be hard for even the pilot to tell without looking at the instrumentation , so you probably wo n't notice it . Another major clue would be when the seatbelt sign unexpectedly coming on , without an announcement or indication of turbulence , and the flight attendants suddenly putting things away and getting ready for landing , especially when you are n't close to your destination . Being briefed for an emergency landing is also a dead giveaway ( no pun intended ) .
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
Depending on the airline , and the size of the aircraft , the Weight and Balance calculations for each flight are either done by the pilots , or by the Flight Operations , Load Department . If it is done by the pilots , they will receive the loading information which contains the weight and location of all passengers , cargo , and fuel . They then calculate manually , or by using software , the exact center of gravity . If done by the Load Department , the center of gravity information will be communicated by radio or ACARS datalink . It is not unusual to require a last minute seating or cargo change in order to ensure the aircraft is within the proper center of gravity limits for takeoff .
<URL> : An aircraft over the Ivory Coast collided with a <URL> at the altitude of 11,300 m ( 37,100 ft ) , the current record avian height . This happened on November , 29 1973 . This is well above the height of Everest ( 29,029 ft ) and the lack of oxygen would kill most other birds . " Since then studies on this vulture revealed a number of features in their haemoglobin and a number of cardio-vascular adaptations that allow breathing in rarefied atmosphere , " explains Mr Thomsett . The engine was shutdown during the collision , and was not restarted , it was possible to retrieve a few feathers in the engine , and determine the species . <URL> . Rüppell 's vulture : a 7 to 9 kg bird , living 40 to 50 years : <URL> <URL> . Damaged compressor after a bird strike ( not the involved aircraft ) : <URL> <URL> .
If the arrival is missing : <URL> If the departure is missing : <URL> And here are the affected items : <URL> Source : 787 FCOM .
The delta between " indicated altitude " and " true altitude " depends on how much the actual pressure differs from the set 29.92 . If the actual pressure is 29.92 , then indicated = true altitude . For each 0.01 of altimeter setting , you change the altimeter reading by about 10 feet ; for each 0.10 of altimeter setting , 100 feet , and for each 1.00 , 1000 feet . So if your actual pressure is 30.92 , then with 29.92 set in your altimeter , you 'll be 1,000 ' higher than indicated , so at FL410 ( read on your altimeter with 29.92 set ) , your " true altitude " would be about 42,000 ' MSL . Anything approaching 31.00 as an altimeter setting is pretty rare , so I 'd say that 42,000 ' is about the top end of the range for most commercial operations , although if you find a jet that can cruise above FL410 ( at least some models of the 747 can , IIRC ) , then add 1000 ' to their max ceiling for your answer . As far as the low end , anything below about 29.00 is a pretty rare altimeter setting , so subtract 1000 ' from whatever you want to use as your range for " indicated " altitude , and that will be the bottom of your corresponding range of " true " altitudes . That all said , I 've used altitudes below FL 180 for a cruise altitude in airline operations plenty of times , so there my indicated would essentially match my true altitude . Most often , this is on short flights where you can get more direct routing by staying low &amp; out of more congested airspace up higher ( U.S. east coast ) ; sometimes the headwinds/tailwinds or the rides ( turbulence ) is enough better down low to make it worthwhile to fly below the flght levels . So , if you want to consider what is the range of commercial operations , I 'd say that FL410 is mostly a very firm upper limit , with very few airline flights above that , while the lower limit would be much less clearly demarcated . And converting to true altitude , add/subtract about 1,000 ' from your indicated ( flight level ) altitude to cover almost all of the likely variation in atmospheric pressure .
I 'm not exactly sure whether this counts , but I think the <URL> using a <URL> comes pretty close . Though Major Buang-Ly was not a civilian , he has never seen a carrier before and the landing was n't exactly illegal . It was permitted by <URL> during <URL> , who even scuttled helicopters on the deck to ensure safe landing . The image below shows the aircraft as it comes to a stop . <URL> Image from <URL>
Path/slope visual indicators are usually located on the left side of the runway ( as seen when approaching ) , but may be on the right side when impractical . Good reasons for moving the aid on the right side : Obstacle clearance , terrain , intersecting runways or taxiways . Interference may occur on the left side , between PAPI lights and nearby lights . This is emphasized in FAA <URL> : " Because PAPI system is dependent upon the pilot seeing a red and/or white signal from the light units , care should be taken to assure that no other lights are located close enough to the system to interfere with the signal presentation . " Installing them on both sides is beyond ICAO recommendations and FAA orders , but can be done : For visibility improvement In order to give better roll guidance Some countries do n't implement ICAO rules the same way , for instance in the UK , PAPI for governmental airports " may be provided on both sides of the runway " ( <URL> ) For airports providing a visual guidance for <URL> operations . The PAPI associated with the steeper approach path may be located on the right side of the runway ( <URL> ) . <URL> PAPI at the usual location , on the left side of the runway ( <URL> ) . From <URL> : The international standard for PAPI is published by the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) in Aerodromes , Annex 14 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation , Volume 1 , Chapter 5 . National regulations generally adopt the standards and recommended practices published by ICAO . From <URL> : The basic PAPI configuration is described in chapter 1 , section 2 , paragraph 16 , and is shown in figure 5-1 . All lamphousing assemblies ( LHA 's ) should be located on the left side of the runway , as viewed from the approach direction . However , where terrain , cross runways , or taxiways make this arrangement impractical , the light units may be located on the right side of the runway . [ ... ] The VISUAL APPROACH SLOPE INDICATOR ( VASI ) system is no longer installed by the FAA as a new facility . Specific details and installation criteria have been moved to Appendix E to provide technical support for existing VASI equipment and facilities . [ ... ] The basic VASI configurations are described in appendix D , section 1 , paragraph 1 and shown in figures 1 , 2 , 4 , and 5 . All boxes ( or light units ) of the two-box ; four-box , and six-box configurations are located on the left side of the runway ( as viewed from the approach direction ) . However , where terrain or cross runways , etc. , make this impractical , they may be located on the right side of the runway . <URL> offer several location variations , chosen for practical reasons . There is a PAPI on the left side for runway 1C and <URL> , but a reverse scheme is used for 1R/19L , and 1L/19R is just standard : <URL>
Here is the text extracted from Boeing 's 777 Flight Crew Operations Manual : In cabin altitude controller cruise mode , maximum cabin altitude is 8,000 feet . When the takeoff field elevation is higher than 8,000 feet , the cabin descends to the cabin cruise altitude while the airplane is climbing . When the destination airport elevation is greater than 8,000 feet , cabin altitude controller cruise mode maintains a cabin altitude of 8,000 feet . ( ... ) At touchdown , the outflow valves open to depressurize the cabin . Therefore , when the airplane is on the ground , its cabin altitude is always equal to the ambient altitude . When it is in the air , the maximum is 8000 feet . Whether the cabin altitude will climb to 8000 feet or descend to 8000 feet depends on field elevation . The reverse happens upon landing . If landing at an airport at 10,400 feet , the cabin altitude is < = 8000 feet until touchdown , then raises to 10,400 feet . This make sense - if the outside pressure is greater , how do you open the door ? ( well with enough force you can , but I will leave it to your imagination as to what happens the moment the door is opened ) .
Best I can find , within the US , is KDFW with 80,403 ' of total length . Second seems to be KDEN with 76,000 ' . Glanced at KORD , and with mental math it comes up to about 71,000 ' . Most other major airports are well behind all of these , mainly because they do n't have as many long runways as DFW and DEN . Somebody else can consider Russian , Chinese , and Middle Eastern airports -- I do n't have the chart sets handy for those . May be worth converting this to a community wiki answer if any of those places give interesting results .
Listen . Climbing aircraft need more thrust , so the noise they produce is related to their vertical speed . Since most excess performance is available at low speed , a slowly flying aircraft producing a lot of noise will most likely be climbing . Once you gain a little experience , the pitch of the engine and propeller sound of piston-engined aircraft will be a very good indicator of their thrust setting . This does n't work for gliders . Here you need to wait to be sure if they are climbing or descending . Only when you see that the glider flies with speed brakes extended you can be sure instantly that it is descending .
FAA <URL> talks a little about this ( you want Appendix 2 , " Wind Analysis " ) . Basically you start by figuring out what kind of aircraft you want to operate at the airport , and establishing some basic wind limits ( specifically , the maximum crosswind and tailwind components you want to deal with ) . Then you call up NOAA 's " National Climate Data Center " , tell them where you 're looking to build your airport , and see if they can have wind data for the location you 're looking to build on . If NOAA does n't have data you have a couple of other options -- another nearby airport 's wind analysis can be used ( if the topography does n't vary that much and the wind analysis is " recent " ) , or you may have to perform a wind survey which basically means placing a <URL> on the site to record the wind speed and direction for a year . Armed with collected wind data you tally up the number of observations in given wind speed ranges and mark them down on a " wind rose " . You then place your runway ( s ) on the wind rose so that they 're aligned with the prevailing winds and determine your " wind coverage " - the amount of time the winds at your site are within your crosswind and tailwind limits . The advisory circular I linked to shows you how to do this by hand , but there 's also software to do this which is how most folks do it . <URL> which will generate the wind rose and runway/crosswind limit bars for you . Note that this is just the wind part . As you 've alluded to there are a number of other considerations , like terrain : If the prevailing winds favor runway 36 , but runway 36 points right at a mountain a mile from the field you might have to align the runway 33 or 03 and sacrifice a perfect headwind for not having pilots fly into the mountain . Also as ratchet mentioned the airspace around your proposed site may influence your runway layout and types of operations . <URL> and a process to go through to ensure that your airport is not deemed <URL> . Also as you alluded to in your question there are other considerations like density altitude ( local temperature and humidity trends ) which will influence design factors like runway length - there 's another advisory circular ( <URL> ) that talks about runway design criteria , including length considerations . For even more than you ever wanted to know about airport design you can check out <URL> , which all deal with airports in some way ( there are ACs on design , construction , markings , lighting , ARFF , and even how to qualify for and obtain federal aid ) .
No , the airport would n't be closed , and the # 1 aircraft does n't need to go around nor be sent around . The risk of him shutting down the runway is very slight , and is probably of the same magnitude of risk that sending him around to hold until # 2 has landed &amp; the runway has been checked and reopened , would put him into a low-fuel emergency state . If they are both about the same distance ( actually , time ) away , then the emergency aircraft has priority ( assuming that he does n't decide to hold in order to troubleshoot , burn down fuel , prepare for the landing , etc ) , but essentially closing the airport from the time that the emergency has been declared until the emergency aircraft lands , is n't something I 've ever seen or heard of . The runway is often closed following an emergency landing until it can be checked by an airport vehicle , to ensure that it is clear of debris , spilled fuel/oil/hydraulic fluid/etc . And if the emergency aircraft ca n't clear the runway under its own power , it takes time to get it towed off , possibly pinning the landing gear ( to prevent unintended retraction ) first . Plus there may be an evacuation after the landing . So closing the runway for some time after the emergency aircraft lands , is entirely possible . But if the airport has planes in the pattern &amp; the emergency aircraft is 50 miles out , it 'd be better to let those who want/need to land , do so , rather than risk them running low on fuel airborne while awaiting the runway 's reopening . Same basic logic applies in the # 1 / # 2 scenario posed above . If aircraft regularly had their gear collapse &amp; shut down runways unexpectedly , that would be a different story . But that 's exceedingly rare , so that is n't the contingency that all planning is based on .
A PAPI and a VASI are very similar in the the information they provide . The only functional differences between the VASI and PAPI is that the VASI has the red over the white , the PAPI the white actually goes to the right of the red , and the PAPI offers higher precision ( or more glideslopes depending how you look at it a larger airliner with a high cockpit may elect to fly a slightly higher glidepath ) . The concept is the same though . A VASI looks like this : Usage : As the saying goes , Red over White , you 're alright . ( on glidepath ) Red over Red , you 're dead . ( too low ) White over White , you 're out-of-sight ( too high ) A PAPI like this : A regular VASI only offers one glide slope and is designed for an aircraft where the cockpit is n't so high up . However , there is a such thing as two-light PAPI , and a three-bar VASI . So either of them can really be tailored to fit the costs and types of aircraft flying to that airport . In the case of a four-bar PAPI it is higher precision . Since the PAPI systems uses a narrower beam of light you must fly the glide path more precisely than the VASI to stay on the beam . The PAPI , with its extra lights , forewarns you when you are drifting from the desired glide path . <URL> So one red light would indicate slightly above glide slope , two and two would indicate the normal glide slope , and three red lights would indicate slightly below the glide slope on a 4-bar PAPI . A Three bar VASI works in similar fashion except there are only two glide paths with two reds being the lower , two whites the higher .
You have a few questions here . ... downwind pattern and I hear something like this : " 123X , tower , you are # 2 for runway 3 , following a Cessna on final . " In this case what you will do is continue your down wind leg while scanning for the Cessna traffic , some towers may ask you to " report traffic in sight " in which case you will say " traffic in sight " when you can see the Cessna . If he is on a long final you can begin turning your base ( assuming you are in a similar small plane of a similar speed ) when he is on your beam ( right off your wing tip ) . This should provide adequate spacing for you to come in properly . Keep in mind that the tower may also instruct you to do things to keep separation like " 123X Extend your down wind 1 mile " etc. . ... instructed to make " left pattern for runway 3 , " am I supposed to wait for the base leg turn until tower clears me for landing ? This depends on where you are coming in from . I have flown into towered airports on the runway heading and simply come into the pattern on final and was cleared to land about a mile from the runway . Other wise I typically report my midfield downwind to the tower " Piper 12345 Reporting Left Midfield Downwind for RW24 " then the tower will respond with my landing clearance or instructions to extend . While it is the towers responsibility to clear you for landing and what not , controllers are not perfect , you can continue on towards the runway in your pattern but if you have not been cleared you should go-around or ask for clearance . The other situation I have been in is a case where the controller deliberately does not clear you but has you come into the pattern and approach . This occurred while they were waiting for an IRF plan to come through for one of the regional jets waiting for departure . Since they did not know when it would come in I was instructed to continue my pattern and would be cleared on final if they did not need to get the jet out . However I was explicitly told I would be cleared on final so I knew what to listen for .
Compliance with Airworthiness Directives ( ADs ) involves an appropriate logbook entry . Examine the aircraft logbooks , or have someone competent in the subject matter -- an aircraft mechanic , for example -- to determine if applicable ADs have been complied with . Each AD requires different compliance measures , ranging from a one-time inspection or parts replacement to recurring inspections . In each case , a logbook entry should be made to document compliance . Apart from the logbook entry , the aircraft or components concerned can often be inspected to confirm compliance , such as checking for a marked part ot that a placard installed . The details of what such an inspection could confirm would vary depending on what the AD requires . In some cases , such as <URL> , which deals with Cessna stall warning systems , the AD calls for a one-time inspection followed by installation of a placard . The placard calls for the pilot to test the stall-warning system as part of pre-flight . In such a case , compliance with the AD extends beyond the actions of maintenance personnel , and will include pilot compliance with aircraft limitations -- the placard . Now , you seem to be asking three questions , beyond the title question of Let me paraphrase these questions : How does one determine if ADs have been complied with ? How does one find ADs that apply to an aircraft ? How does one find " safety bulletins " for an aircraft ? The first question I have answered above . The second question is primarily the purview of aircraft mechanics , especially IAs where applicable . The site you linked is a good way to find applicable ADs . It sounds like you may have run into some difficulty in getting the site to work correctly . A search for " <URL> " returns 21 ADs . Since ADs list aircraft or component applicability by make , model , and serial number range , among other criteria , each AD will need to be examined to determine if it is applicable to any given aircraft . The third question is more difficult . Airframe , powerplant , and parts manufacturers may issue Service Bulletins and disseminate them at their choosing . Some manufacturers are easier to deal with in this regard than others . An exhaustive answer on this topic is beyond what is appropriate here , in part because it is constantly changing . If in doubt , contact the manufacturer for what you need .
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
end question
start question
Why are gate numbers also marked on the outside of a terminal ?
The signs on top of the jet bridges are useful in identifying your assigned gate . Without these signs it would be easy to misidentify a neighboring gate if it also had a ground crew ready to accept an airplane . They are also useful for keeping an eye on an occupied gate from a distance while you wait for an aircraft to leave . They are also illuminated which helps locating the right gate at night or in low light . The electronic signs high on the terminal building are helpful to aircrew and ground crews . They often list aircraft info , departure/arrival airports and time to scheduled pushback . The on ground painted lines are useful for initially lining up for a gate and in making the elaborate maneuvers required getting into certain tightly spaced gates . Once you get this close you are being guided by ground crew and have wing walkers watching your clearances . The final painted ground positions for nosewheel position ( by aircraft type ) are only useful to the ground staff guy with the wands -- you ca n't see them yourself when needed .
I found this on <URL> " Some call signs are less obviously associated with a particular airline than others . This might be for historic reasons ( South African Airways uses the callsign " Springbok " , hearkening back to the airline 's old livery which featured a springbok ) , or possibly to avoid confusion with a call sign used by an established airline . Companies ' assigned names may change as a result of mergers , acquisitions , or change in company name or status ; British Airways uses BOAC 's old callsign ( " Speedbird " ) , as British Airways was formed by a merger of BOAC and British European Airways . Country names can also change over time and new call signs may be agreed in substitution for traditional ones . " Before America West bought US Airways , their callsigns were Cactus ( associated with the deserts of the American West ) and USAir . After the merger , the combined airline kept the better-known ( airline ) name , and the other airline 's callsign . Now , after the acquisition/merger of American Airlines , they 're using that airline 's name and callsign . Leading to more than a few radio calls recently ( late spring / early summer 2015 ) along the lines of
From <URL> : Q35 : Can my AME provide the medical examinations under BasicMed ? A : All AMEs are state-licensed physicians and may elect to conduct physical examinations required under BasicMed . But the FAA does not require AMEs to provide medical examinations under BasicMed . It is up to the individual AMEs to decide whether to offer BasicMed medical examinations based on medical practice considerations The key words in there are " may elect to " . There have been several discussions about this on AOPA 's forums ( members only ) and people 's experience so far is that most AMEs wo n't do BasicMed . The only specific reason I 've heard is liability : one explanation I read is that when acting as an AME , the physician is representing the federal government and is therefore more or less immune from liability . But if he does a BasicMed exam he 's acting as a regular state physician , and his liability insurance may or may not allow it . So you just have to ask your AME if he 'll do BasicMed or not . As for whether BasicMed affects a third-class medical or vice versa , this is from the same FAQ : Q2 : How does BasicMed affect FAA medical certificates ? Does FAA still offer the third class medical ? A : BasicMed does not affect medical certificates at all and did not do away with third-class medical certification . In fact , third-class medical certification is still required for GA aircraft and flights that do not meet the criteria for BasicMed . Nothing about the FAA 's medical certificate program has changed with BasicMed , and you can still apply for a first , second , or third class medical the way you always have . BasicMed is merely an additional qualification you can use to fly , in lieu of holding a medical certificate . And this : Q6 : Can I exercise BasicMed and hold a medical certificate at the same time ? A : Yes . If you are operating under BasicMed , then you must comply with the BasicMed operating limitations ( e.g. flying only within the U.S. and at or less than 250 knots ) . When operating under BasicMed , you are not exercising the privileges of your medical certificate . Simply put , there is no link or dependency at all between an FAA medical and BasicMed . Your AME might do one physical exam and sign off both at the same time for the sake of efficiency , but that does n't change anything about the renewal dates .
Because it is fairly easy to determine which runway is the correct one by other means . Runways are numbered based on their compass direction . The runway number will be the compass direction divided by 10 - for example , a runway with a direction of 150 degrees would be numbered 15 . This makes it possible to verify that you are using the correct runway by simply looking at your compass , to make sure the runway is pointing in the right direction . Even during day time in nice weather , this check is routinely performed before taking off by most pilots . Runway identifiers for parallel runways are suffixed with an ' L' for the left runway and an ' R ' for the right runway ( from the pilot perspective ) . At airports with three parallel runways , the identifier of the middle one will be suffixed with ' C ' for center . When approaching an airport at night , the runways will - as you point out - be clearly lit . It is easy for the pilot to spot any parallel runways and make sure they are approaching the correct one , simply by observing the relative position of the runways . During night or periods with degraded visibility , most traffic will make use of precision instrument approach systems , such as ILS , which will guide the plane precisely to the correct runway , without much risk for confusion . On the ground , clear airport signage make it nearly impossible to mistake which runway you are on . In addition , at busy airports with multiple runways , air traffic control service is likely to be provided . Air traffic controllers will monitor all aircraft movements on the maneuvering area and in the vicinity of the aerodrome , and will quickly be able to notify any pilot who is about to use a wrong runway . Another point is that lighted runway numbers would probably be pretty ineffecient , as the relatively small size of runway numbers would make it impossible to read them from a distance , even if they were lit . A pilot approaching a wrong runway would notice this too late to be able to make corrections , and would have to perform a missed approach . Granted , doing so would in many cases be better than landing on the wrong runway .
Latest FCOM , after revision 24 of section 3.01.21 , contain the explanation : AIR CONDITIONING WITH LP GROUND UNIT Do not use conditioned air simultaneously from packs and LP ground unit ( to avoid chattering of the non return valves ) . The non-return valves prevent air in the mixer unit to return into any source in the case this source delivers air at a lower pressure , or does n't deliver air . Valves are the one-way separation between the air generation section and the air distribution section : <URL> <URL> If the LP ground connection is used while the packs are ON , pressure will be comparable on both sides of the valves . Valves can start chattering instead of being stable in the open position . While pressures compete , air from the mixer unit can return to the packs . Damage can occur , as described in this <URL> ( air conditioning duct and non-return valve damaged ) .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
The question of aircraft name variants <URL> , but I just want to add that other reasons have also been proposed : The ' 8 ' in the 380 resembles the double decker configuration of A380 . It was named A380 <URL> And of course , it is the lucky number for Chinese .
There really is no such thing as " bird radar " . Radar comes in a few frequency bands that have certain advantages depending on the distance , resolution and attenuation you need out of it . The band is n't the only factor here as the band will dictate what size dish you need and your aircraft nosecone will but a distinct upper limit on that . Weather radar is geared toward detecting rain drops and anything bigger than rain ( hail , bugs , birds , etc ) with reasonable distance and attenuation features ( you want to penetrate into a storm ) . Birds will show up on this radar , though depending on smoothing and processing algorithms you may need a flock of them before they get drawn on the radar , at which point they 'll look like some rain . A radar optimized to detect bird sized objects would probably use a wavelength that did not let you see things as small as rain drops and small hail . Some other things to keep in mind are that the radar is not always on , and it should be off on the ground except during takeoff when needed . The reason for this is that you do not want to be putting radar energy into people , and they tend to be in the way on the ground . We only turned the radar on for takeoff when there was significant weather around the field and wanted to be prepared for requesting diversions . Aircraft radar tilt can also be adjusted , so we would n't be looking at birds in front of us , but clouds above and in front of us . Wit that said , our SOP on fields with known heavy bird activity was to takeoff with the radar on and pointed forward because someone had the idea that the birds did n't like being in the radar beam . I have no sources to back that idea up , but it was written into our FOM . Now assume you can takeoff and see a flock of birds on the radar . Do you have enough time to do anything about it ? If so , what do you do , some maneuver away from them or do you turn into them in hops they take the evasive action ? Now back to the title question : Why are n't bird radars in the nose cone ? The weather radar can see birds , it would be redundant . A bird radar ( optimized for birds ) would not be good at seeing weather , so where would the weather radar be placed ? In a real situation , what would a bird radar enable you to do with a positive detection with the time you have to react to it ? Probably not much . Weather is a much more common threat than flocks of birds , so if you can only have 1 radar system , you want the weather radar .
Because the wing is finite , while the airfoil is assumed to stretch out sideways indefinitely . The consequence is that on a wing you get spanwise flow outside of the plane of symmetry , while on the airfoil all flow speeds are in the airfoil 's plane only . Spanwise flow is caused by the pressure difference between lower and upper side which can equalise around the wingtips . This lets the pressure difference diminish towards the tips and especially in the rear part of the wingtips . The consequences are : Lift is <URL> on a " real " wing relative to a wing of the same airfoil with no such sideways flow . The center of pressure of a " real " wing is <URL> of the one of the airfoil . On a swept wing the air transverses the surface differently than it transverses the airfoil . Basically , a <URL> is added to the speed around the airfoil .
You are absolutely correct , <URL> . But tradition and a subjective feeling of being treated better means that people will prefer to be seated facing forward . Some even claim that they develop motion sickness when sitting backwards . This can indeed be the case for some people in trains with their big windows , but much less so in aircraft . Just note which seats will be occupied last in a train with lounge/mixed seating . In order to cram the highest number of passengers into their planes , the airlines would need to convert all seats to the backward orientation , and you can be sure there will be some passengers who will complain . If passenger safety would be important to them , airlines could already use better seatbelts , like the 5-point-harnesses used in gliders and aerobatics planes , but they all use the minimum lap belt which is mandated and nothing more . Convenience and cost always win over safety . Now I need to mention two caveats : If passengers should be seated backwards , the industry needs to develop new seats . It will not be helpful to turn existing seats around - they would collapse at much lower loads than what a backward-sitting human can sustain . However , to fully support these higher loads , seats will be more heavy and possibly even the floor structure needs to be beefed up . Backward-facing seating will only help in the fraction of cases where deceleration loads are too high for a forward-facing person , but low enough to make the crash survivable . If the plane flies into a mountain or ditches and sinks before people get out , the better seating will not help . Some military transports have backward-facing seats . In some crashes , the survivability rate was seven times higher in those than in forward-facing seats . Early air travel also used mixed seating , e.g. on the Zeppelins or the <URL> . One airline to use mixed seating was Southwest Airlines with their <URL> , and business jets have mixed seating as standard . Thanks to @reirab for pointing out that United Business class also has some backward-facing seats . Cabin of the Do-X . No seatbelts , seats not bolted to the floor . These were the days ... Cabin of the Dassault Falcon 7X business jet .
Wind affects your flight path angle by affecting how far you travel while you 're descending . With no thrust from the engine an airplane is falling out of the sky at a roughly constant rate of descent . The wind direction affects the groundspeed , and thus the distance covered between when the engine failed &amp; when the aircraft hits the ground . This is more directly observable from outside the airplane . Consider these 4 scenarios on a post-it note : The airplane has lost its engine , and the pilot is flying at best-glide airspeed while holding a constant magnetic heading ( making no wind corrections ) : <URL> No Wind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( about 45 degrees in my drawing ) , and travels in a straight line over the ground ( the " ground track " ) while doing so . Headwind The aircraft descends along a steeper glide path ( about 60 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate the headwind is slowing its progress over the ground . Since it 's a direct headwind ( right on the nose ) the ground track is still straight . Tailwind The aircraft descends along a shallower glide path ( about 30 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate it has a tailwind , which is making it move faster over the ground . Since it 's a direct tailwind the ground track is still straight here too . Crosswind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( because it has neither a headwind nor a tailwind ) , but the crosswind pushes the ground track ( in this case into the inconveniently-placed tree ) . Your endurance ( time aloft ) will be similarly unaffected : If you 've set the aircraft up at its optimum glide angle-of-attack ( best glide airspeed ) the descent rate is pretty much the same regardless of whether you have a headwind , tailwind , or crosswind . You will fall the same distance in the same amount of time , it 's just a matter of how far you travel while you 're falling ( which determines where you land ) . You can test this for yourself in an airplane by doing engine-out drills : Line up with a headwind , pull the throttle out , and pitch for the aircraft 's best glide speed . Note your vertical speed ( rate of descent ) , and then repeat the test in the opposite direction ( tailwind ) or at 90 degrees to your original course ( direct crosswind ) : The vertical speed will be effectively the same .
NDBs in the U.S. transmit between 90 kHz and 535 kHz , and VHF is between 108 and 137 MHz . Of the VHF frequencies , the nav/com is only capable of transmitting between 118 MHz and 137 . So aside from electromagnet interference , no VHF radio should transmit on a frequency that he ADF receives .
The air moves around the fuselage , which causes a localized increase in velocity around the aircraft . This increase in velocity causes a slight decrease in the outside air pressure , which effectively sucks air out of the fuselage , making the cabin at a slightly higher pressure altitude . The effect is localized . While the reduction in pressure , and increase in pressure altitude inside the cabin is small , many GA aircraft display a 40 foot or so difference in pressure altitude between the alternate static port ( inside the aircraft ) and the pressure altitude with the factory static port .
Boeing <URL> it in the following way : Controlled flight into terrain ( CFIT ) describes an accident in which a flight crew unintentionally flies an airplane into the ground , a mountain , water or an obstacle . Since it 's not unintentional , it 's better described as forced landing or in your case , ditching .
The main benefit of biplanes is that the lift can be distributed across both wings . This provides more lift with less wingspan and places less load on each wing . Less load means the materials can have lower strength . This was very important in the early days of aviation , when engine power , materials , and weight were much more limited . The major downside of a biplane is aerodynamics . The wings interfere with each other , causing drag . While structural bracing between the wings can reduce weight , it also adds more drag . <URL> A biplane configuration does not make much sense for delta wings . The main drawback of a biplane is drag , but drag increases with the square of velocity , and delta wings are best in high-speed flight . <URL> , they have higher viscous drag due to the large surface area . A second delta wing will add more area , increasing both wave drag ( from the cross section ) and viscous drag ( from the surface ) . Configuration of the aircraft also becomes problematic . Most aircraft with delta wings tend to be fairly flat , allowing lower area and therefore lower drag . The closer the wings are , the more they will interfere . The further apart they are , the more structure is needed , either in a larger fuselage or in structural braces , which increases weight and drag .
There are a couple of places in the regualtions that require FAA or NTSB notification of certain events : <URL> <URL> <URL> The closest thing to what you described would be the following in 121.703 ( a ) : ( 11 ) A fuel or fuel-dumping system that affects fuel flow or causes hazardous leakage during flight ; Note that it says during flight though , so this would n't apply and they would n't be required to report it .
Passengers are counted before the plane leaves the gate . Since everyone 's boarding pass is scanned at the gate , they know how many passengers should be on board . If that number does not match , it may be a red flag that someone has sneaked out . The missing passenger can usually be located as using the lavatory , changed seat etc. . As a last resort , the passenger 's luggage is removed from the cargo hold for security . If things get to that stage , the flight is inevitably delayed for sure .
Besides the sealing the aircraft would also need a vacuum pump that is able to pull air out of the cabin which means extra weight . <URL> is through a air cycle machine that pushes air into the aircraft and outflow valves . There is no facility to pull air out of the craft . Any pressure drop you may experience on the ground is probably because the pilot increases air pressure on the ground slightly to test the seals and then releases it before takeoff .
Yes , the tips of the fan blades . Let 's look at an example : The <URL> has a <URL> of 3124 mm and a maximum rotational speed of 3475 RPM . Their circumferential velocity is d · π · 57.917 = 568 m/s or Mach 1.67 at sea level and ISO atmosphere . Now you need to add the flow speed of the air , but this calculation alone should be sufficient to prove the point . The inner part of the fan and all the compressor stages belonging to the core engine experience flow at subsonic speed , even if the whole engine is flying at <URL> ( see picture below ) . To make ignition as complete as possible , the flow speed is <URL> the closer you move to the fuel injectors . Since the air is heated in the combustion chamber , the hotter gas has a higher speed of sound , and all the flow through the turbine is subsonic , too . This includes the low-pressure turbine . Even the 1,600 ft/s shown below at the turbine is subsonic , because at 1100 ° C the speed of sound in air is <URL> or 2,362 ft/s . <URL> Overview of parameters in a typical jet engine . Only in the rear part of a <URL> with reheat switched on will supersonic flow again be attained . This is exactly aft of the narrowest section , called the throat , where airspeed is equal to the speed of sound , and the petals of the nozzle are the only moving parts here . And they move rather slowly .
end question
start question
What would be the potential effects of not having an accumulator in the hydraulic system ?
Accumulators act as storage for flow . At times of peak flow demand , the accumulator delivers a large flow supply at nominal pressure until its oil has been used up , after which the maximum flow is the pump flow . The same functionality that a capacitor or a battery has in an electric system . If there are no accumulators installed : Peak hydraulic power is greatly reduced : peak flow supply equals the pump flow , and pressure drops when the pump supplies high flow . Pressure surges are high when the pump is running and demand suddenly stops , the accumulator evens out the pressure peak , again like how a capacitor functions . ( From @Gerry comment ) .
I did high altitude training about three months ago , up to 30,000 feet simulated altitude . Here 's the timeline : Within 30 seconds ( oximeter 100-95 ) : noticed physical symptoms beginning . I could tell that something was wrong , but felt functional . Within 60 seconds ( oximeter ~ 90 ) : mild headache . Still able to write my name . Not feeling good , but acceptable . Within 3 minutes ( oximeter ~ 80 ) : Able to do simple tasks when specifically directed ( thread a nut onto a bolt ) , but completely unable to multitask at even the simplest things ( tried to put my pen down ... did n't notice that I missed the desk - it landed on the floor . ) Within ?? minutes ( oximeter ~ 70 ) : I am no longer able to perceive the passage of time . No longer able to take meaningful notes . My signature is still legible - instinctive muscle memory apparently does n't degrade nearly as fast . Within 6 minutes ( oximeter unknown ) : I have taken another pen from my pocket and am playing <URL> with it . This is much more interesting than paying attention to the directions from the instructors . I do n't notice anything odd about my behavior . Immediately after : An instructor gives me a direct command to put my mask on . I comply . Total time in chamber : 7 minutes . Time of useful consciousness in chamber : about 2 minutes So , to answer your question : It depends . I can safely say that seven minutes at 30,000 foot environment wo n't guarantee death ( because I 've survived it ) , and it wo n't guarantee severe brain injury ( they let me keep flying ) but on the other hand , I 'm young and I exercise . The best answer I can give is the same one that applies to <URL> : Just because the guy before you was able to do it , does n't mean you 'll be able to do it .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
There is no general answer , but the closest one would be bad luck . In the DC-10-10 , the aircraft of <URL> , all three hydraulic lines went through one hole in the tail bulkhead which was damaged when the engine failed . This is no real redundancy , and it was bad luck that this particular spot had been hit . In the <URL> , the same accident would had damaged probably just one line . There , the three hydraulic lines are separated as much as possible in the tail section ( one on top , one on the left side and one of the right side of the fuselage ) . Lockheed has more experience with military design than Douglas , so the Lockheed engineers were more aware of redundancy issues . In the A300 involved in the <URL> , the same bad luck happened . Normally , each aileron is powered by two out of three hydraulic circuits , so one would remain if the other two are hit . Note that the green and yellow circuits were lost immediately , while the blue circuit failed only <URL> . But in this case the damage extended to the spoilers , so all three circuits were affected in the end . There is only so much damage you can protect against . Also for <URL> the damage was just too extensive to not involve all four hydraulic circuits . The rear pressure bulkhead burst and blew most of the vertical tail surface away . It can be argued that the real culprit , however , was the chief pilot 's refusal to don his oxygen mask . But the aircraft was only marginally stable and <URL> . Hydraulic fluid needs to be pumped continuously to heat it so its viscosity stays low . If you add shutoff valves , this pumping could be impeded . Note that the spoilers of the Bagdad A300 were not sucked open because non-return valves blocked the lines to the spoilers , helping in keeping the aircraft flyable . If you put shutoff valves along the hydraulic lines , you open up a new avenue for failures . The idea of hydraulics is that you use just one pump and can create the maximum force at any point , since rarely would you need to move several actuators at maximum load in parallel . Splitting up the circuitry to enable the pilot to isolate parts of the airplane will take away this advantage , resulting in a more complex , heavier hydraulic system . And who knows if those added parts would not malfunction or be mishandled , resulting in a new class of entirely avoidable accidents .
A common hydraulic fluid used in aircraft is called <URL> . The fluid is artificially colored , but this does not depend on which circuit it is in . The <URL> on the manufacturer 's site addresses the color . Skydrol fluids are given a purple dye to make it easy to distinguish them from other fluids . But the dye does not usually last as long as the fluid does . The color may change from purple to gray or yellow or green , yet the fluid can still meet all used fluid specifications . Color is not a reliable indicator of fluid quality , and we recommend that the system be sampled for chemical analysis to determine if it is suitable for use . A dark amber color , however , is a cause for concern , and can indicate a severely stressed fluid . Call Solutia 's Technical Service for assistance if you are unsure about a fluid 's color . Our technical bulletin has a color chart to use as a guide . Initially the color helps to distinguish from other fluids , and having multiple colors would make it more complicated . It notes that the color also does not remain constant , so even if it were colored initially , it would probably end up changing anyway . It also mentions that a dark amber color can be an indicator of issues . I ca n't find any good pictures , but the lines are probably not color coded . Any colored hydraulic system components are generally purple ( like the fluid ) . The lines themselves <URL> , but the standard for hydraulic lines is <URL> . The end fittings are colored to identify the tube material type . The maintenance manuals will show the layout and label the different lines . Also , on <URL> , one report is from a mechanic that confused the green and yellow system fittings , which probably would n't have happened if they were color coded .
Never say never , but that 's not a prop malfunction that I 've heard of or that was ever addressed in the turboprops that I 've flown . We had various prop malfunctions , but the ways that things could fail that we considered would pretty much leave all blades in the same place . So without claiming that it could not , ever , ever , no way no how , not in all possibility ever happen , I 'll say that it 's not very likely . If you did get something like that , the vibration would probably be bad enough that you 'd shut the engine down , and at that point the interesting question would be , do all the blades feather for you ? ( The answer to that probably depends on what type of prop you have and what specific failure mode led to the condition in the first place , and now we 're into too much speculation for any answer to be very enlightening . )
This explanation is for a subsonic aircraft . If air flow is disturbed at the engine inlet , like it happens if the engine angle of attack is too high ( or the crab angle too high like in <URL> ) or air is disturbed by another mean like the wake of a preceding aircraft , a compressor stall can occur . The flow within the fan and compressor stages is no more homogeneous , and different mass flows exist in the compressor . These disparities are increased until the flow stops in low mass flow regions , the reason is : Compressor stages are made of blades and vanes delimiting small passages between them . If one passage is blocked by slow air , upstream air tries to use the next one . The next passage is reached under a higher angle of attack , so this tends to stall this passage too . <URL> This effect propagates rapidly and is called a rotating stall . This has been explained here : <URL> Effects Unsteady airflow As passages are blocked by detached air over stalled airfoils , pressure increases in the passages and upstream . Detached airflow being very turbulent with changing velocity ( including negative values ) , blade/vane vibrations can start . Vibrations are not good for an engine , buffeting can break a metal part if resonance occurs . Pressure decrease The compressor being now less efficient , pressure downstream the compressor decreases in addition of being variable . The pressure variation intensity is somehow limited by the plenum chamber effect of the compressor diffuser for an axial compressor and diffuser stator after the impeller for a centrifugal compressor . <URL> Location of the diffuser , <URL> Depending on whether a new balance can be found or not , combustion may continue while the rotating stall occurs . In that case it 'll be at reduced power due to the less efficient compressor , and a lower fuel flow is required . It may be necessary to shutdown the engine and restart it to get out of the compressor stall . Overheating If fuel flow is not reduced in a steady rotating stall , the mixture becomes too rich , combustion temperature increases , overheating occurs in the combustion chamber and downstream in the turbine . As the materials used for the combustion chamber and the turbine are already at their highest sustainable temperature , any increase can damage them . This can happen if the fuel control unit ( FCU ) does n't limit fuel flow correctly and attempts to maintain previous thrust / fuel flow . It is suspected this was the cause of <URL> . Surge The compressor diffuser ( or plenum in a centrifugal compressor ) is upstream of the combustion chamber . The latter is a very high pressure region at hot temperature . If the diffuser pressure is too low compared to turbine inlet pressure , hot gas can start flowing back into the diffuser and the compressor . This is a <URL> . The surge creates a loud bang and the pressure wave can damage the fan and the engine inlet . The surge can be associated with flames getting out of the engine by the exhaust pipe , or the engine inlet . There is also an asymmetrical additional thrust leading to a yaw force . Compressor elements are not designed to sustain hot gas from the combustion chamber , they may be damaged if exposition is repeated . Again the engine may recover itself from the surge , if there is no damage . The cycle can repeat but at some point damages are inevitable . Loss of control If the surge is important and the aircraft is in a critical phase ( e.g. rotating to take off ) , the yaw effect can lead to a loss of control . The yaw effect was actually interpreted as a collision with another aircraft on the runway in this <URL> .
The pilots had a clear procedure to follow for an emergency descent , but this procedure was not automated by a machine . ( It 's actually quite complicated because Concorde had no speed brakes . So it requires negotiation with air traffic control for a clear descent path -- not much point in doing an emergency descent if you crash into another aircraft on your way down ) . Concorde was actually fitted with very small windows , so that a powerful air pump would be able to hold a pressure differential against the outflow in the event of one window loss . Hear more from a Concorde pilot at : <URL> There are several diversion airfields on the transatlantic route ; KEF , YQX , and SJF are the most famous .
Disclaimer : I borrowed most of this answer from <URL> , but since you did not find it , I reproduce it here . If you found it but is was incomprehensible , please let me know and I try to improve it . Wind just carries the aircraft with it . For the aircraft , everything feels the same , just the ground passes by at the sum of wind and airspeed . The tricky part of the question is about the best airspeed for maximum range with wind . Best range means you cover the most distance while the wind is carrying the plane with it . If you have a headwind , the longer you stay aloft , the more you are carried back , so you better hurry up . With a tailwind , it helps to slow down because now the wind is helping you to cover even more distance . Graphical solution But how much ? We need to pick that particular speed where the change in fuel consumption just balances the change in speed over ground . I always found that easier to explain with gliders , and there you can really observe which polar point is best . Just picture yourself as an observer on the ground who sees the plane fly by in the distance . If you plot a line with the combination of positions and altitude , there must be one flight speed that produces a line where the flight path angle is the shallowest . This is the desired optimum . That has only little to do with optimum L/D - this is just one other point you can find with a sink speed polar . And it happens to be the point for best glide in still air . But there is so much more that humble polar will tell you , if you look at it the right way . With powered aircraft you need to pick the polar point where your fuel flow is lowest for the given speed over ground . Basically , you fly like the glider and add enough power to stay at the same altitude . That is all the difference . Please look at the plot below which shows airspeed on the X axis and sink speed on the Y axis . The solution is graphical : You start on the X-axis at the point which corresponds to the wind speed and put a tangent on the sink speed graph . Where the tangent touches the sink polar ( blue line ) , the plane flies at the best L/D for that given wind speed . Move the starting point to positive speeds for headwind and to negative speeds ( not shown here ) for tailwind . If the term " best L/D " is already reserved in your mind , please read this as the " best polar point " . It is really the same . Analytical solution For powered flight things become more tricky , because thrust changes with speed . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Now for fuel flow : This goes up and down with the power output of the engine . Again a simplification , but it helps to get to grips with the problem and gives useful results . This lets us re-formulate the problem as : At what airspeed do I have the best ratio between power and ground speed ? Mathematically , we want to fly with $ \ frac { P } { v_w + v } $ at the lowest possible value . $ P$ is the power , $ v_w $ is the wind speed and $ v $ the airspeed . To express the thrust behavior over speed , I break P up into a product of a constant $ K_S $ , the throttle setting $ \ delta $ and the speed like this : $ K_S \ cdot \ delta \ cdot v \ cdot v ^ { n_v } $ . Here is the general solution , pasted as a PNG to save me all the typing in the editor : Please note that implicitly the lift coefficient is on both sides of the equation . To solve it , you need to do it recursively , until speed and lift coefficient match . I took this form because of the similarity to the general form at no wind which can be found in many performance books . Now I have put the results into a plot . In order to eliminate the aircraft-specific parameters , it shows the ratio of $ c_L $ with wind over $ c_L $ without wind . The plot is metric , but will work for all units if you use the same units for wind speed and air speed . To give an example for the application of the correction factor : If you are flying in a 20 m/s headwind and your best range speed at still wind is 50 m/s ( approx 97 kts ) , the $ c_L $ needs to be 70 % of the $ c_L $ at still wind for piston-powered aircraft . This makes your corrected airspeed 60 m/s ( v is proportional to $ \ sqrt { c_L } $ ) , and now the recursive nature of the formula rear
Inertial Navigation Systems , unlike other navigation systems , do not depend on external ( radio ) measurements . Instead an INS keeps track of its position by accurately measuring acceleration ( accelerometers ) and rotation ( gyroscopes ) . It therefore works in remote areas where there are no ground based navaids available . Initially , the INS gets its position from pilot input at the gate , or in more recent systems from GPS , sometimes even during flight . By measuring all the accelerations and rotations and integrating them into speed and direction the position is tracked . In doing this , the INS has to correct for the rotation of the earth and the related Coriolis force . Due to small inaccuracies in the measurements the velocity error and , with that , the position errors grow over time . <URL> has quite a detailed article about the history and working of the INS . While raw INS position has mainly been replaced by GPS measurements on oceanic flights , the system is not being phased out . GPS is a sensitive systems and by crosschecking it with INS , errors can be detected in both systems . It is often used as a backup to GPS . Integrated GPS / INS systems provide better systems integrity and allow the navigation system to coast through short GPS outages with high accuracies . In addition to that , the ( laser ) gyroscopes of the INS are often used to provide data to the digital artificial horizon displays in the cockpit and to the auto flight systems . In this case the term Inertial Reference Unit ( IRU ) is used , which acts as a basis for the INS .
Outside US , SI is generally used for everything except altitude , distance and speed . Altitude : 1000 ft happens to be reasonable vertical separation , which is somewhat easier to calculate with than the corresponding metric figure 300 m. Distance : There are two quantities that were never converted to decimal . Time and angle . Since we did n't switch to gradians , it makes sense to keep nautical mile , which corresponds to 1 minute along meridian or equator , as it makes calculating distances from navigational maps somewhat easier . If the maps were marked in gradian coordinates , 1 gradian would be 100 km and kilometres would be used . Speed : Obviously based on the unit of distance in use . In Russia , Commonwealth of Independent States ( most former Soviet countries ) and China ( and I am not sure whether some other Asian countries ) , metric system is used for everything . I believe in Russia they recently switched to flight levels based on feet , but they do use metres below transition altitude . Before second world war , aircraft built in continental Europe usually had instruments in metric units as well . However before the war aviation was more advanced in the USA , instrument procedures were developed in USA and after the war there was surplus of US-built planes , so most of the world just adopted the US procedures including the units they used as everybody using the same units was more important than any personal preferences . Without these reasons we 'd be probably using metric in Europe for everything too .
DO-178 / ED-12C Any software that executes on installed hardware in a type certified aircraft will need go to through DO-178C ( or a similar process ) . The amount of effort involved depends on the safety criticality of the software functions . Since this sounds like a new system without predefined System Requirements ( such as those you would get from an OEM as part of the SAE ARP 4754A processes ) , those will need to be defined by your development process and then your Software ( High Level ) Requirements trace from those . Here in the US , smaller companies will typically contact and work with the local ACO ( Aircraft Certification Office ) during the product planning stages to identify the product as following the DO-178C processes . Larger companies , especially OEMs , tend to work with DERs ( Designated Engineering Representatives ) rather than directly with the ACO , as they may have dozens of different DO-178 projects going at one time . EASA Software Certification Guidance on the EASA Software Aspects of Certification can be found in EASA CM - SWCEH - 002 <URL> From that document , Panel 10 seems to be the part of EASA that you would work with , although I have n't found how a new applicant would go about contacting them yet . The EASA panel in charge of software and AEH aspects of certification . This panel includes at least one software and AEH expert ( who is the coordinator ) and , depending on the size of the project , may include additional software and AEH experts . There is also a FAQ page for the application processes with EASA : <URL>
Our Flight Environment First the basics : <URL> is mainly carbon dioxide and has an average temperature of -47 ° C and an average pressure of <URL> . The speed of sound in these conditions is <URL> , the dynamic viscosity $ \ nu $ is <URL> , and for my calculations I use an atmospheric density of 0.0234 kg/m ³ . Now I owe all you early upvoters an apology . The earlier answer used an unsuitable methodology ; now I have improved the answer with different results . Operating Point Next step : The electric power supply makes a propeller the right choice , and for propeller aircraft the minimum power to sustain flight can be achieved when the lift coefficient is $ $ c_L = \ sqrt { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ This makes your zero-lift drag the real sizing parameter : Make the aircraft a little more draggy , and you get punished with a big size increase . Therefore , we strive to keep the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ down to 0.008 in order to keep the aircraft small . This allows to get an idea which aspect ratio will be best : At minimum power the total drag is four times the zero-lift drag , and the lift coefficient should be as high as possible to keep the aircraft 's size small . Realistically , our flight $ c_l $ will not grow above 1.6 ( which is the best that <URL> can manage at a reasonable L/D ) , so the aspect ratio is $ $ \ Lambda = \ frac { c_l ^ 2 } { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ which yields an aspect ratio of 35.74 when $ \ epsilon $ is 0.95 . Available Power Now we can follow the procedure in <URL> to calculate power demands for your solar-electric propulsion . Solar radiation on Mars is a lot lower than on Earth , but very reliable as there are no clouds to obstruct the sun . Beware of <URL> , however ! Since you gave the Martian solar constant in your question , I will use it here : The wing will be covered to 80 % with solar cells , and each square meter of them will produce your optimistic 200 W ( 500 W radiation times 40 % efficiency ) . Per square meter of wing we can achieve 160 W , and with an electric efficiency of 96 % and a propeller efficiency of 85 % this translates into a propulsive power per square meter of 130.5 W. Matching Thrust to Drag Now we can equate the drag $ D$ and the available thrust $ T$ from the power $ P$ , like this : $ $ D = T = \ frac { P } { v } = > 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho \ cdot v ^ 3 } { 2 } = 130.5 \ cdot S$ $ Luckily , wing area $ S$ can be canceled , and we get a result for the airspeed $ v $ at which the aircraft 's drag can just be supported by the power the wing can generate independent of wing area : $ $ v = \ sqrt [ 3 ] { \ frac { 130.5 } { 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ rho } } = 55.857 m/s $ $ Now for the real size : If we assume that the payload fraction is 25 % , the mass of the full aircraft will be 4 tons . To lift this at the dynamic pressure of 36.5 N/m ² which corresponds to the found flight speed we need a wing area of 254 m ² . This can create 40.65 kW of power , 33.17 of which are transformed into thrust . The wing span will be a whopping 95.28 m . How you get this to Mars I leave to your imagination - after all , this is just a tad less than the wingspan of the <URL> . If you can achieve a higher payload fraction , the wing will become smaller : At 30 % the full aircraft mass is only 3.333 tons , and the wing size will become 211.74 m ² large . Its wing span will be 87 m. With these dimensions I doubt that a higher payload fraction will be possible . The closest aircraft to this design was the <URL> , which had an empty mass of 3.6 tons ( with a propulsion system weighing close to the mass of Curiosity ) and a wing span of 61 m . Last Checks Mach number : 56 m/s is just Mach 0.2345 on Mars , so we should not run into compressibility effects which would limit the assumed lift coefficient . Reynolds number . The bigger wing has an average chord of 2.66 m and the smaller one still 2.43 m chord , and per meter the Reynolds number in -47 ° C cold carbon dioxide at 56 m/s is 4,900,000 - plenty enough to make the selected lift coefficient possible . Size helps here !
Statistically , there has got to be graphs you can combine to show the number of airplane crashes to fatalities and a graph with skydives ( without a chute/malfunctions ) to fatalities . I 'd venture to say that the odds are far greater to surviving an airplane crash than a freefall . Let 's look at the factors ... A freefall : your velocity in not slowed by anything your body is not protected by anything you have no control on where to ' crash ' A crash landing : passengers are slowed greatly by the aircraft passengers are greatly protected physically ( airframes are designed to minimize risks from explosions , shrapnel , and crash G 's ) there is a greater chance the aircraft can be controlled somewhat to crash in the best place . The only time it would be better to jump without a parachute is if you are <URL> or the aircraft is about to be <URL> .
IRS will drift over time . Decision altitude is 200ft for ILS CAT I approach . 0.5 nm drift is not to much for navigation but it will be huge difference in altitude and you can hit obstacles if your altitude has drifted just couple of feet . Probably it could be used if backed by GPS as EGPWS does or non baro RNAV approaches do . But even GPS precision alone is not enough in this case and you need WAAS . Radio altimeter can give much better precision .
No , there was actually an episode of Myth Busters about this exact subject : <URL> They had to try really , really hard to cause an explosive decompression , resorting to actual hollywood style explosives to make it happen . Most airliners can actually even maintain normal pressurization even with a coffee can sized hole in the fuselage . As far as firing their weapon on board the aircraft , they are trained to not shoot towards areas like the cockpit or the floor where most of the " important " stuff is . Avionics , hydraulic lines , electrical wiring , etc. do n't take bullets well . The rounds that they use would put holes in the aircraft , but as the above episode shows it wo n't create a pressurization problem .
It is still called the ( Airborne ) Fire Control System ; found about it <URL> from a Google search . Well , the acronym for ( Airborne ) Fire Control System is FCS ( As well as Flight Control System ) according to <URL>
Accumulators act as storage for flow . At times of peak flow demand , the accumulator delivers a large flow supply at nominal pressure until its oil has been used up , after which the maximum flow is the pump flow . The same functionality that a capacitor or a battery has in an electric system . If there are no accumulators installed : Peak hydraulic power is greatly reduced : peak flow supply equals the pump flow , and pressure drops when the pump supplies high flow . Pressure surges are high when the pump is running and demand suddenly stops , the accumulator evens out the pressure peak , again like how a capacitor functions . ( From @Gerry comment ) .
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
It would chop it <URL> . Watch the video . It 's fun . When the helicopter pitches up right after refueling , the rotor disc can not follow the movement ( its hinges allow the blades to pitch up and down , and inertia makes it change its plane of rotation only slowly ) . The refueling probe is cut cleanly in half . However , I would not try this on purpose . The risk of damaging a blade is considerable . I am sure the rotor blades needed to be replaced after that incident .
end question
start question
Who has the authority between captain and first officer in emergencies ?
Authority in the cockpit , especially in emergency , is very important in a principle called Crew Resource Managment , or <URL> . A number of incidents similar to your example led to the formulation of this concept to enhance the coordination between the crew . The idea is that all crew members should be working together as effectively as possible to solve the problems at hand . In emergencies , the crew need to be able to communicate . This means that the first officer should be willing to question the Captain , like they did in your example . They should also be willing to take action if they feel it necessary . However , communicating this action is also important , as evidenced in the crash of <URL> , where the pilots were commanding different inputs . Neither of the pilots should be ordering the other to do anything unless absolutely necessary . They need to get the attention of the other pilot , state the problem , say why it 's a problem , and suggest a solution to the problem . Then they need to agree on a plan of action , and be clear about who is in control . In your example , the captain 's negative attitude may have prevented the first officer from saying anything more . A better response from the first officer would have been to say something more along the lines of , " Sir , we are flying towards high terrain , we are not flying high enough to clear it . We need to either climb over it or turn left to avoid it . Do you agree ? " This makes it clear to the captain what problem the first officer sees , and is clear about how the first officer thinks they should respond . It also includes a direct question for the captain to answer . Both pilots should be ready to communicate like this if necessary , and should also be making sure that they are n't creating an environment where the other pilot is n't comfortable with doing so . If the first officer still got no response , he should have been willing to take control , and should communicate to the captain that he is doing so , including the previously stated information about what actions he intends to take .
For references , I 've used <URL> ; <URL> ; <URL> ; &amp; the <URL> . The wiki is a general side-stick discussion listing ( some ) aircraft that have side-stick fly-by-wire ( FBW ) technology , but does not go into active vs. passive . Generally speaking , if you have used a joystick on your PC to fly Microsoft 's Flight Simulator , such as <URL> , you 've used an active side-stick . According to the Patent Application cited above , the patent is for an Active Side-Stick technology described as " pilot flight control stick haptic feedback mechanism provides variable force feedback to the pilot flight control stick . " One of the ' issues ' with the current passive side-stick technology ( approved for use ) used on aircraft such as Airbus ' A380 is that there is no tactile feedback when using the side-sticks , such as a pilot would feel using an old-style column or yoke . In a Cessna 172 , for instance , when you pull/push/turn the yoke , there is actual tactile feel , if you pull back strongly in-flight , you 'll ' feel ' the forces exerted against the airflow . Passive side-sticks have none of this ' feel ' . Active SS technology attempts to replicate the forces on the joystick . Active SS technology is currently used on most miltary aircraft using side-sticks , but does not appear to have yet made its way into civilian airliners . ( If I 've gotten stuff wrong , I 'll remove/fix this answer , as I am not an airline pilot and have never had the opportunity to fly military hardware . )
Fail-safe does not necessarily imply that the system will continue operating after a fail . If the system stops operating but does not create a dangerous situation , it is still fail-safe . A non-essential service on board an aircraft such as the entertainment system can be fail-safe if it just stops operating because a fuse blows . If the fuse does not blow and as a result the system catches fire after a short-circuit , it is not fail-safe . Fail-soft does indeed mean that after a failure , essential services are still functional , although in aviation context this is mostly refereed to as graceful degradation . A fly-by-wire system such as on board the A320 is fail soft : If all functions , the system flies with normal law active , providing protections against getting into unsafe regions of the flight envelope . Upon certain detected failures , the system switches to alternate law , still with some protections in place . Upon further failures , the system switches to direct law : no more flight envelope protections , just surface deflection proportional to stick deflection . So this system is fail-soft and fail safe . The electronic flight control system as a whole is fail safe : if all flight computers are lost , the system has hydro-mechanical connections from pedals to the rudder and from the trim wheel to the the stabiliser . Hydraulic systems require special attention regarding fail-safety , since a stuck servo valve can command a constant velocity : the actuator runs into one of its stops and has a hard-over failure . An elevator that is stuck in full up deflection is not safe , so the pitch control system needs to make provisions for fail-safety if this fault occurs . For instance by allowing left and right elevators to normally work in unison , but uncoupling them after a detection of a hard-over failure . The working elevator can then be commanded to full opposite position , making the elevator system fail-safe but not fail-soft : pitch command must now be done with the stabiliser trim . One elevator stuck in the mid position would be fail-safe , and control with the other elevator provides graceful degradation . The flight control system on board an F-16 is fail-operational : upon a system failure , full system function continues , no degradation . It is quadruple redundant , meaning there are four systems on board that carry out the same function , while only one is required . The four systems function independently , and a monitoring system determines if all four outputs are within a pre-determined range . If three are and one is not , this system is switched off and the other three continue . This can happen once more , but if there are only two systems operational the voting system would not know which of the two has failed .
An amended clearance usually indicates something has been added to it , but the original content remains the same . Revised usually means the clearance has had modifications to the original content , including possible additions and deletions .
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
If an aircraft encounters a serious problem quite soon after departure that forces it to land immediately , the aircraft may be above its certified maximum landing weight . This is because there is still a lot of fuel in the tanks , which adds a lot of weight . As @RonBeyer mentioned in a comment , landing overweight can have a number of serious consequences . When landing a heavy aircraft , stopping it on the runway already requires a lot of energy ( or rather , a lot of energy needs to be converted into something else ) . If the aircraft is heavier than it is designed to be on landing , this may cause excessive stress on the brakes . In extreme cases , this can make the brakes catch fire . Now , open flames under an aircraft that is almost fully loaded with fuel is the recipe for disaster . In some cases , even though the crew brakes hard on landing , the aircraft may be so heavy that stopping on the runway is impossible . A runway excursion will then follow ( a situation where the aircraft leaves the runway onto the grass or similar ) . This is not neccesarily dangerous , but it certainly can be , depending on the surrounding terrain : <URL> ( image from <URL> . This aircraft was not overweight , but I still think the situation shown in the picture is relevant to this question . ) Obviously , in an emergency ATC , and in turn the fire and rescue crew at the airport , need to be prepared for such events . If ATC expects an aircraft will be landing overweight , getting the crew to confirm this will allow ATC to inform the fire crew that they can expect brake fires or a potential runway excursion . It can also enable the rescue leader to position the fire vehicles at the best possible position , which would be further down the runway than normal , since the landing roll will be longer . So basically , it 's a way to get information to the rescue crew so that they can prepare for what might be coming . Depending on the type of emergency , ATC will also ask the crew about other details , in some cases also with the purpose of passing this information on to the rescue crew , since the rescue crew will normally not be in direct contact with the cockpit as long as the plane is in the air . See also this related question : <URL>
Yes there is a distinction , pitch , roll and heading are angles [ unit = radian ] and latitude , longitude and altitude are linear distances [ unit = meter ] . Together , these six parameters define the six Degrees of Freedom that define the momentary state of a rigid object with reference to the earth . All six are defined relative to earth axes . For the linear dimensions this is clear , we just need to define a suitable zero point . For the angles : Pitch is the nose up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Roll is the wingtip up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Heading is the angle relative to a suitable earth reference , usually magnetic north or geographical north . Conversion of aircraft axes into earth axes is a non-trivial matter and the cause of much confusion , for instance in questions comparing lift to weight : lift is always coupled to aircraft axes , weight to earth axes . The axes sets are defined as follows : Aircraft axes Origin : Centre of Gravity of aircraft X-axis : in the symmetry plane of the aircraft , + = forward to the aircraft nose Y-axis : in the span wise direction of the aircraft , + = to the right wingtip Z-axis : perpendicular to the XOY-plane , + = down into the floor . Earth axes Origin : Centre of Gravity at the start of the response X-axis : In the horizontal plane ( relative to gravity ) , + = pointing north . Y-axis : Perpendicular to XOZ-plane , + = pointing east . Z-axis : Pointing to the centre of the earth = + Edit Yes navigation lat/lon is given in [ degrees ] - the INS sensor ultimately converts displacement into proper navigational definitions of course . But for measuring 3-D aircraft inertial effects the SI system is used , and displacement is internally treated as a linear motion , units [ metres ] .
Generally speaking1 , when an aircraft is allowed/ready to leave ( deliberately not using the word depart ) the gate , things proceed in the following fashion : The pilots are in contact with <URL> , and when the aircraft is ready to leave , Ground approves that they can leave the gate . The pilots asks <URL> that the <URL> can start . Pilots are in contact with a designated personal from groundcrew ( see picture below ) . Pushback tractor/tug will start moving the aircraft away from gates , onto the place where aircraft will be ready to move on its own . During the pushback , aircraft 's engines are started2 . Pilots inform tug driver/designated person from groundcrew which direction the aircraft needs to be facing at the conclusion of pushback . When aircraft is ready to roll towards its assigned taxi instructions , <URL> signals the pilots that aircraft is in the requested position and pushback tug is about to be detached . After the tug is disconnected , the designated groundcrew personal communicating with pilots , informs the pilots and disconnects his headset . The marshaller signals ( after moving away from the aircraft ) the pilots that the aircraft is ready to proceed on its taxi route . Pilots confirm and acknowledge this last signal , and aircraft starts to taxi . I have <URL> for the above mentioned activities . Although , I have always seen that a person from groundcrew attaches a headset near the nose gear of the aircraft ( picture below ) to communicate with the pilot . <URL> <URL> Please see the cable connecting the headset with the aircraft , near the nose gear . You can not follow the entire cable though . 1 : This is what a typical scenario looks like . Although , there can be great variations . 2 : Engines are not started near the gate as there is groundcrew servicing the airplane and to avoid damages to close-by structures .
Well one major difference is the blade pitch , pusher props will seem to be backwards . You must also modify the engine 's bearings to be able to support the propeller mounting and crankshaft in compression , rather than tension . A pusher prop 's engine also has to be cooled differently than a tractor , because the propeller is not blowing air over the engine . Therefore some ducting and ram air magic has to be done , or some other system of cooling implemented . Many pusher-type planes have had severe issues with cooling . Note : some of the next few might not necessarily apply to pusher-type planes where the engine is mounted above the fuselage , like the Lake Amphibian and many other seaplanes , or some other oddities like the B-36 . I am talking about more conventional pushers like the Velocity , Beech Starship , or Cessna 337 . Another issue is FOD . A pusher prop will likely be mounted behind at least one of the wheels , which can kick dirt and rocks up into the propeller . Now imagine a prop that is very close to one of the mains . Even on paved runways you encounter rocks and debris occasionally , and it only takes one hit in the right place to produce a failure-causing nick . Compounding on that last one , when a tractor-type plane takes off , beacause the prop is forward of the center of mass , the propeller will rotate up , away from the ground . But a pusher prop is usually just the opposite : it will rotate down a bit , increasing the chances of a prop-strike . This is one that is heavily considered and worked-around while building pusher-type planes , but while you can mitigate the danger by placing the prop closer to the CM , or making the landing gear taller , you ca n't completely remove it as far as I know .
You do n't want an aircraft that just ' works ' - rather , you want an aircraft that satisfies your needs . The first flight is usually made by a prototype and does just that - it flies and pretty much nothing else . Only once you start the flight tests do you understand the airframe limitations and whether the aircraft meets the requirements ; usually , a number of modifications are needed . Also , the first flights are rarely , if ever in production configuration . In most of the cases , the required systems are fitted later . In general , most of the combat aircraft bring about substantial improvement over its predecessors - in fact it is a requirement , as the old ones can be used with small improvements at a much lesser cost . Me 262 was really a revolutionary product and the use of jet engines caused a number of delays ; in fact the prototypes were flight tested with piston engines in 1941 . The first test flight happened with piston engine - just as well because both the jets flamed out soon after takeoff . By the time the second and third prototypes , the engines had been changed . However , these engines ( Jumo 004 ) were larger , requiring larger nacelles , which in turn required a bigger vertical stabilizer ( the landing gear was changed later ) . Pre-production of Me 262 had started in 1943 ( and went nowhere due to engine troubles ) when it was decided to change it into a bomber , further increasing the development period . By the time it took the field , it was in too few numbers to do anything . Another example is the Mirage III . There were significant differences between the aircraft in first flight and the production one . The prototype never reached the required Mach 2 in level flight.The first one to do was the pre-produciotn Mirage IIIA with an engine with more than 30 % extra thrust , lengthened fuselage for radar etc. . Even this version was not combat capable - that was the Mirage IIIC . The design is not frozen till the flight testing is over and the production plans can only be finalized after that - you never know what 'll change ( for example the hugely successful Su-27 underwent a change in wing design midway through testing ) . The delays due to setting up of production comes later and is normally quite less for countries/companies having experience . It is the design freeze that takes up more time during test flights .
Quoting from the <URL> : You may ask " Why 5/8th of a statute mile ? " That 's because <URL> , or about 1 kilometer .
Been waiting for an answer but none coming so - guesswork and experience , since no citations or direct knowledge . It 's a mixture of both . Often , cockpit to cabin communication is one to one . Rather than use the cabin address , the crew will call a specific station for example , the rear galley . So if the captain wants a coffee , they will not use the cabin address , nor is there any need for a formalised language . Other comms may be most effective using cabin address but still not needing a formalised language , for example . This call would only happen after the passengers are belted in , since you are already in turbulence and the cabin crew do n't need a formal instruction to buckle up . In my experience , the initial call to warn of turbulence ahead is made one to one to a specific station , usually the purser or senior cabin crew member . That person will then instruct the rest of the crew . The fact that the crew has been asked to sit , means that the carts will be stowed and the cabin prepared . It 's just a part of their routine . In the case of unexpected heavy or severe turbulence , the crew probably do not need a call , since they know about it at the same moment the cockpit crew know but , a specific instruction might be given to indicate urgency . Some comms are most effective with an address and a formal command , for example . This is a safety critical procedure and is therefore specifically addressed ( " cabin crew " ) and a precise instruction ( " doors to automatic " , " cross check " ) . It was doors to automatic , not manual , and check the opposite door to make sure the person responsible for that door has done it , and done it correctly . Note that this particular command is normally given by the purser or senior member , and not from the flight deck . There is also a call to " all stations " which will call all the station phones and whichever crew member picks up will deal with the comms . As far as I know , the precise wording of instructions is not regulated but is part of company SOPs and check lists .
What 's the difference between racetrack and holding pattern ? Are they only synonymous ? You are using pattern and not procedure , so yes they are quite synonymous . The actual difference is between holding procedure and racetrack procedure . Holding and racetrack patterns They are related , but not exact synonymous . Some terminology : Holding ( or flying a hold ) is a maneuver designed to delay an aircraft already in flight . A holding pattern is the pattern used to hold , regardless of the design of the pattern . A racetrack pattern is a specific design of holding pattern . From <URL> : A holding pattern for instrument flight rules ( IFR ) aircraft is usually a racetrack pattern based on a holding fix . Holding patterns are usually timed because aircraft have to remain within a given and limited protected space when flying the holding procedure . That was for the patterns , let 's look at the procedures where the differences are . Holding procedure ICAO definition from <URL> ( PANS-OPS ) : A predetermined maneuver which keeps an aircraft within a specified airspace while awaiting further clearance . It can be used to delay the aircraft , but also to change its altitude using a holding pattern and stack . <URL> <URL> . In holding , the holding pattern is usually a racetrack pattern , and racetrack and holding may be used interchangeably while talking about patterns . See this question specific to holding : <URL> Racetrack procedure ICAO makes a specific use of the phrase " racetrack procedure " in <URL> ( PANS-OPS ) : Racetrack procedure : A procedure designed to enable the aircraft to reduce altitude during the initial approach segment and/or establish the aircraft inbound when the entry into a reversal procedure is not practical . and A racetrack procedure consists of : a ) a turn from the inbound track through 180 ° from overhead the facility or fix on to the outbound track , for 1 , 2 or 3 minutes ; followed by b ) a 180 ° turn in the same direction to return to the inbound track . <URL> For ICAO , a racetrack procedure is a turn procedure , or course reversal procedure , in the instrument approach procedure , comparable to other procedural turns , and has nothing to do with delaying the aircraft : <URL> <URL> . On plates , racetrack turns are depicted using bold lines while holding patterns are depicted using regular lines : <URL> Adapted from <URL> .
This regulatory oversight is performed by the Civil Aviation Authority of a country . In India , this function is performed by the <URL> ( DGCA-India ) . Typically certification information is available to the public , but only high level information will be given . Searching on the DGCA-India website I found <URL> that lays down the requirements on Cabin Crew Training .
There are quite a lot of differences , some more subtle than others , but I tend to find this is the best angle for identification : the side view . Although as we 'll see later in this answer , the top/bottom view has a fairly obvious difference , and there 's a clue that we can use to identify from the front or rear <URL> So what are you looking at ? On the left is the Hurricane . It 's slightly larger than the Spitfire , although that 's not always a great help from distance . Perhaps more usefully , the fuselage is fundamentally different shape : I 'll elaborate on this in several areas where we can directly compare . Firstly , the rear fuselage . At first glance the two are very similar , but the Hurricane has a much more pronounced " drop " to the tail , while the Spitfire 's is a " rise " . What do I mean by that ? Follow the line of the top of the cockpit canopy : the Hurricane 's fuselage behind the canopy drops away , while the bottom of the fuselage is relatively flat . On the Spitfire , it 's reversed - the top of the fuselage follows the line of the canopy , while the bottom comes up to meet it . It 's a subtle difference at first glance , but once you 've seen it once it 's a very clear distinction . When looking at the Hurricane 's rear fuselage , it almost appears to have a " dog leg " , where the rearmost area drops in relation to the middle of the aircraft . The Spitfire 's follows a much more continuous line The Spitfire is also clearly much more sleek - it 's a " pencil " shaped fuselage , long and thin and curvy . The Hurricane is more blunt and " solid " . Other differences ? Look at the tail . The Spitfire 's is relatively small and curves upward from the top of the fuselage in a smooth curve , while the Hurricane 's comes off at a sharper angle . Similarly the Hurricane 's horizontal stabilizer is higher - almost in line with the top of the fuselage . The Engine cowling shape , as with the cockpit , is different : where again the Spitfire 's continues a nearly straight line from the bottom of the cockpit , the Hurricane 's has a distinct curve . If you can get closer , you will also note that the Hurricane 's fuselage is almost " ridged " - it 's a metal frame with a fabric covering , and that gives it a bumpy appearance , vaguely visible on the above photo . <URL> What about if you ca n't get a side view , though ? Here 's the Spitfire ( below ) and Hurricane ( above ) from the front ... but you can see the same from the rear Well from the front , there 's a single very nice clue under the fuselage : the radiator housing : that box-like structure hanging from the bottom of the plane . The Hurricane has one , and it 's on the centre of the fuselage . The Spitfire 's is not , it 's under the right wing . On some later models , there are two , one under each wing . The next photo is included mostly for the wing shape , but the aforementioned radiator boxes are visible too : from this , we can tell the Spitfire is a relatively late war model : a Mk IX ( 9 ) onward : although there are other subtle clues that suggest this is a much later model ... the 5 bladed propeller indicates a Griffon engine , so a Mk XIV ( 14 ) or later . Anyway , we can see the Hurricane 's single centre radiator , and the Spitfire with one under each wing <URL> And finally , how about the bottom ? Well , the Spitfire 's wing is extremely distinctive : it has an " Elliptical " wing , shared with only one or two other aircraft . Once you can recognise the Elliptical wing , you can recognise the Spitfire very easily in flight . The Spitfire 's wing , particularly the trailing edge , is very curved compared to most other contemporary aircraft . The Hurricane 's wings are much more conventionally shaped , with both leading and trailing edges being straight ( a trait shared with aircraft like the Typhoon/Tempest , P-51 , Me109 , A6M " Zero " and most other aircraft from the WW2 era ) <URL> Late War Spitfires ( the above is a Mk 22 ) are even more distinctive : they have a " bubble " canopy that protrudes entirely from the fuselage .
The primary difference is packaging , which saves space and weight . The ARINC 704A IRU is a 4 MCU size LRU . Likewise , the ARINC 706 ADC is also a 4 MCU unit . The ARINC 738A ADIRS combines both functions into a single 4 MCU LRU . Though the ADIRS also includes remotely mounted Air Data Modules ( ADM ) which reduce the amount of pitot/static plumbing . Functionally , the ADIRS performs the same functions as the separate IRS and ADS . A big drawback to the older ADS was the need to run the pitot and static lines all the way to the LRU . These lines are a maintenance headache , requiring multiple connections all of which have the potential to leak . The ADMs can be mounted near the pitot and static sources significantly reducing the plumbing . The ADM converts the pressures to digital signals passed to the ADIRU via ARINC 429 or similar data bus . This simplifies installation , maintenance , and weighs less . It should be noted that newer aircraft are moving to even newer architectures . The Boeing 787 dispensed with ADIRS and went with the Goodrich SmartProbes for air data and an Earth Reference System ( ERS ) to replace the IRU . The Goodrich SmartProbes do away with pitot/static plumbing entirely by incorporating the pressure conversion in the probe base . They also electrically cross-connect the probes to perform the ADC function with no separate LRU . The ERS addresses the FAA/EASA concerns over common mode faults in the IRU by using an IRU/AHRS mixed sensor architecture . In each of the two ERS , the IRU acts as the primary reference with the AHRS acting as a monitor . The key is that the IRU and AHRS use different hardware and software so that a common design flaw ca n't affect both and cause an undetected failure . It 's just evolution in the function of the aircraft sensors . They do what they need to do . The big demand from Boeing , Airbus , et al , is to reduce size , weight , power consumption , and cost .
Roll , pitch and yaw are rotations about the principle body axis of the aircraft . Roll angle , pitch angle and yaw angle together describe the attitude of an aircraft . The principle body axes are : X-axis is the longitudinal axis pointing out the nose of the aircraft . Rotation about the x-axis is called roll . Roll rate is denoted $ p $ , roll angle is denoted $ \ phi $ Y-axis is the lateral axis pointing out the right wing . Rotation about the Y-axis is called pitch . Pitch rate is denoted $ q $ , roll angle is denoted $ \ theta $ Z-axis is the vertical axis pointing down . Rotation about the Z-axis is call yaw . Yaw rate is denoted $ r $ , roll angle is denoted $ \ psi $ Initially when all angles are 0 , the aircraft is wings level , nose pointing at the horizon and heading north . The angles $ \ phi , \ theta , \ psi $ describe the attitude with respect to this initial positions . They are called <URL> The rotations are applied in backwards order , first yaw ( $ \ psi $ ) , then pitch ( $ \ theta $ ) and finally roll ( $ \ phi $ ) . This describes almost every possible attitude uniquely , unless the pitch angle is + / - 90 degrees . Then roll and yaw will become ambiguous . Now back to your question . Initially on the runway the roll angle of the aircraft is 0 degrees . If the aircraft pitches up ( $ q $ becomes positive for a while ) , the roll angle will not change . However , if initially the roll angle was non-zero , the roll angle will be affected by a pitch-up manoeuvre . You can easily visualise this with your hands . Open your right hand with the palm facing up , you thumb at a right angle to the fingers . The middle finger is the X-axis , the thumb is the Y axis . Now roll your hand 45 degrees counter clockwise , keeping the fingers pointed at the horizon . Your thumb will now point 45 degrees into the air . This was a pure roll manoeuvre , the pitch angle is still 0 degrees . Now flap your hand 90 degrees up using your wrist , this is a pitch up manoeuvre since you rotate about your thumb axis which is the Y axis . Now you see that your fingers are all in the same vertical plane , pointing 45 degrees up to your left . If you describe this position with respect to the initial position , the pitch angle is 45 degrees , and the roll angle is 90 degrees . So pitching 90 degrees resulted only in 45 degrees of pitch , but also in 45 degrees of extra roll . Because the roll-angle was non-zero before we started to pitch , the pitch rotation affect the roll-angle . If your sensor is not aligned with the body axes of the aircraft , you will see a lot of cross-effects between the angles during a take-off . The mathematical relation is well described on <URL> , which is also the source of the images above .
Authority in the cockpit , especially in emergency , is very important in a principle called Crew Resource Managment , or <URL> . A number of incidents similar to your example led to the formulation of this concept to enhance the coordination between the crew . The idea is that all crew members should be working together as effectively as possible to solve the problems at hand . In emergencies , the crew need to be able to communicate . This means that the first officer should be willing to question the Captain , like they did in your example . They should also be willing to take action if they feel it necessary . However , communicating this action is also important , as evidenced in the crash of <URL> , where the pilots were commanding different inputs . Neither of the pilots should be ordering the other to do anything unless absolutely necessary . They need to get the attention of the other pilot , state the problem , say why it 's a problem , and suggest a solution to the problem . Then they need to agree on a plan of action , and be clear about who is in control . In your example , the captain 's negative attitude may have prevented the first officer from saying anything more . A better response from the first officer would have been to say something more along the lines of , " Sir , we are flying towards high terrain , we are not flying high enough to clear it . We need to either climb over it or turn left to avoid it . Do you agree ? " This makes it clear to the captain what problem the first officer sees , and is clear about how the first officer thinks they should respond . It also includes a direct question for the captain to answer . Both pilots should be ready to communicate like this if necessary , and should also be making sure that they are n't creating an environment where the other pilot is n't comfortable with doing so . If the first officer still got no response , he should have been willing to take control , and should communicate to the captain that he is doing so , including the previously stated information about what actions he intends to take .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
end question
start question
Should I record my helicopter and autogyro time in separate logbooks ?
In the United States , except for that time which is used for certification or currency , the FAA permits you to log your time however you like , or even not log it at all . That means that you can do pretty much whatever you feel like . That said , here are my personal recommendations in order of how much I support them : Get a <URL> . Log everything in it . Get a <URL> with plenty of space for various categories and classes of aircraft . Copy all of your records from your old logbooks into it . Archive your old logbooks in a safe location . Use your new logbook for everything from here on . Get a professional pilot logbook with plenty of space for various categories and classes of aircraft . Do n't copy all the records from your old logbooks into it , just carry forward the totals . Archive your old logbooks in a safe location . Use your new logbook for everything from here on . Get one logbook for each category/class of aircraft you intend to fly . Log your time in whichever logbook is appropriate . Remember which logbook is which . Keep them all easily accessible rather than storing them in a safe location . Worry about whether you lost one . Have a complicated system of adding up your totals from various logbooks . Make it difficult to look up flights chronologically . Feel sad .
Yes , Jetstreams are a net benefit on longer flights because it is easy to minimize headwinds and maximize tailwinds for both directions . Longer flights can detour hundreds of miles in order to take advantage of more favorable winds and still result in a net gain . I frequently fly from Toronto to Hong Kong . We always fly a polar route YYZ-HKG as it is shorter , but usually take a HKG-YYZ North Pacific route over Alaska to take advantage of the prevailing winds . This daily flight is always scheduled at 15 hours 40 mins for Toronto to Hong Kong over the pole but only 14 hours 45 mins returning via a longer route over Alaska . The longer flight routing over Alaska is a net benefit in time and fuel due to the prevailing westerly winds over the North Pacific . This type of flexibility is not available on shorter flights . YYZ-HKG 6,787 nm non-Stop 15:40 HKG-ANC-YYZ 7,050 nm non-Stop 14:45 <URL>
Sure can . FAR 61.109 makes no distinction between flight in hard IMC and simulated in an aircraft using a view limiting device .
You can buy a DVB-TV USB stick for around $ 20 , which will allow you to receive ADS-B data : Up from that , you can get a high-end ADS-B receiver that costs about $ 750 : Finally , FlightRadar24 offers free hardware in selected locations : Bear in mind that these devices will only allow you to receive signals within a relatively small area . One thing worth noting is by contributing the data received by these devices , you get a free FlightRadar24 Premium subscription . Lots more information is available at <URL> .
SOS is a distress signal . In the context of <URL> it would be equivalent to a call , which is the standard voice signal for distress . There is , as far as I 'm aware , no standard equivalent for an " urgency " ( ) situation in morse code . As far as its use in aviation , most aviation communication today is by voice ( radiotelephone ) , and " SOS " is not generally used in voice communication . Its used by morse code stations is because it is a short and easily recognized pattern : Its recognizability is part of the reason it replaced the old Marconi CQD general distress call code which was literally a general call to all stations ( ) signaling " distress " ( ) . I ca n't find a reference , but I would assume there 's at least one case in history where the SOS code was used by an aircraft ( back when morse stations were common on aircraft ) . An SOS signal could of course be transmitted today using the unmodulated carrier from your radio by simply keying the microphone , but that would only be useful if the voice circuit of your radio has failed and you had no other means to communicate . Otherwise voice contact or setting your transponder to <URL> would generally be the preferred way to signal distress .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
My flying school as recommended the <URL> as the introductory text . It covers basic aviation plus Australian ( CASA ) regulations .
You can log PIC time because you are " the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated " ( <URL> ) . That 's all that is required in this case for the pilot to log PIC time . So since a pilot must be night current in order to fly with passengers , ( <URL> ) the question becomes , " is a flight instructor considered a passenger if they are providing instruction " ? AOPA has a <URL> about this specific scenario where they quote FAA legal interpretations as saying : " We agree that , for purposes of section 61.57 ( b ) , an authorized instructor providing instruction in an aircraft is not considered a passenger with respect to the person receiving instruction , even where the person receiving the instruction is acting as [ pilot in command ] . ( The instructor must be current , qualified to instruct , and hold a category , class , and type rating in the aircraft , if a class and type rating is required . ) The instructor is not a passenger because he is present specifically to train the person receiving instruction . Neither is the person receiving instruction a passenger with respect to the instructor . This training may take place , even though neither pilot has met the 61.57 ( b ) requirements . " Note that they say in this case , since neither of them is a passenger , that technically neither the pilot or the flight instructor has to be night current .
The ' usual ' alternative is to have the aircraft owned by a legal entity like an <URL> or trust of some kind ( trusts are also used by <URL> ) . But that only adds a layer of obfuscation : if someone really wants to know who owns the aircraft then they can dig into the LLC or trust ownership details . That information is usually also public although it 's at the state level not federal level . The best thing here is to talk to an attorney in your state , preferably one with aviation experience . He can tell you what legal entities might fit your needs , as well as the pros , cons and costs of each one .
For my answer I 'm going to assume that someone is genuinely trying to shoot you down for some reason , it 's not some sort of legal intercept . If you ignore a legal intercept then I can see a warning shot being fired to get your attention , in which case I would tell ATC I 've been intercepted and get on guard ( 121.5 ) and communicate with them and follow their instructions , evasive maneuvering in this case is a bad idea . I 'm also assuming that no missiles are involved because if you are against a missile equipped enemy in a PA-28 the missile 's going to win . It may be called a Warrior but let 's face it , it ai n't . In the incredibly unlikely event that someone is trying to kill you without warning then communication with the ground would be my last priority in the situation you describe because ATC can not help you and you do n't have time to explain it to them anyway . If you have a one-button squawk emergency button by all means hit it , but first and foremost you need to keep positive control on the airplane . If you exceed your critical AOA and end up in a spin you are in a worse emergency and if you rip the wings off you are dead . If it is at night then turning off your lights would be a smart idea , this wo n't help if the fire is radar guided but it will if the fire is visual . If there 's a cloud very close by going into it is probably a great idea . Next you need to determine whether the fire is air or ground based . If it 's ground based you will know because the tracers will be going from below you to above you ( hopefully not through you ) then your best bet is to throttle up and clear the area as quickly as you can by staying on the same track so you get away from the guns . Diving will increase your airspeed allowing you to clear the area faster but keep it below the vne ! Some small left/right turns may help to throw of the aim of the guns , but large turns will only serve to keep you close to the guns for longer . If there 's terrain nearby which you can put between you and the guns then use it . If the fire is air based then the tracers will be closer to the horizontal . If you are being shot at from another aircraft then flying in a straight line is likely the worst possible idea , you need to maneuver . If your airplane is faster than theirs then dive and outrun them , but chances are you are n't going to be able to do that , so personally I would corkscrew down and cling to the nap of the earth . Use your short turning radius to its best effect and do n't fly a predictable path . Ideally I would use terrain and/or clouds to try and break visual contact so I can escape . If you can spare a few cycles in all this you should make a mayday call to ATC and tell them you 're being shot at , and whether it is another aircraft or someone on the ground . Say your intentions , your aircraft condition , and the number of people on board . This is n't likely to immediately help you , but it may help to keep someone else from flying into the same situation if there 's a nutcase on the loose with an anti-aircraft gun or someone 's strapped a 50 cal to their SR-22 and is playing red baron with passing aircraft . If you 're lucky local law enforcement or the military may be able to scramble something fast and take the heat off you , but most likely it 's all over by the time they get there .
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
There are quite a lot of differences , some more subtle than others , but I tend to find this is the best angle for identification : the side view . Although as we 'll see later in this answer , the top/bottom view has a fairly obvious difference , and there 's a clue that we can use to identify from the front or rear <URL> So what are you looking at ? On the left is the Hurricane . It 's slightly larger than the Spitfire , although that 's not always a great help from distance . Perhaps more usefully , the fuselage is fundamentally different shape : I 'll elaborate on this in several areas where we can directly compare . Firstly , the rear fuselage . At first glance the two are very similar , but the Hurricane has a much more pronounced " drop " to the tail , while the Spitfire 's is a " rise " . What do I mean by that ? Follow the line of the top of the cockpit canopy : the Hurricane 's fuselage behind the canopy drops away , while the bottom of the fuselage is relatively flat . On the Spitfire , it 's reversed - the top of the fuselage follows the line of the canopy , while the bottom comes up to meet it . It 's a subtle difference at first glance , but once you 've seen it once it 's a very clear distinction . When looking at the Hurricane 's rear fuselage , it almost appears to have a " dog leg " , where the rearmost area drops in relation to the middle of the aircraft . The Spitfire 's follows a much more continuous line The Spitfire is also clearly much more sleek - it 's a " pencil " shaped fuselage , long and thin and curvy . The Hurricane is more blunt and " solid " . Other differences ? Look at the tail . The Spitfire 's is relatively small and curves upward from the top of the fuselage in a smooth curve , while the Hurricane 's comes off at a sharper angle . Similarly the Hurricane 's horizontal stabilizer is higher - almost in line with the top of the fuselage . The Engine cowling shape , as with the cockpit , is different : where again the Spitfire 's continues a nearly straight line from the bottom of the cockpit , the Hurricane 's has a distinct curve . If you can get closer , you will also note that the Hurricane 's fuselage is almost " ridged " - it 's a metal frame with a fabric covering , and that gives it a bumpy appearance , vaguely visible on the above photo . <URL> What about if you ca n't get a side view , though ? Here 's the Spitfire ( below ) and Hurricane ( above ) from the front ... but you can see the same from the rear Well from the front , there 's a single very nice clue under the fuselage : the radiator housing : that box-like structure hanging from the bottom of the plane . The Hurricane has one , and it 's on the centre of the fuselage . The Spitfire 's is not , it 's under the right wing . On some later models , there are two , one under each wing . The next photo is included mostly for the wing shape , but the aforementioned radiator boxes are visible too : from this , we can tell the Spitfire is a relatively late war model : a Mk IX ( 9 ) onward : although there are other subtle clues that suggest this is a much later model ... the 5 bladed propeller indicates a Griffon engine , so a Mk XIV ( 14 ) or later . Anyway , we can see the Hurricane 's single centre radiator , and the Spitfire with one under each wing <URL> And finally , how about the bottom ? Well , the Spitfire 's wing is extremely distinctive : it has an " Elliptical " wing , shared with only one or two other aircraft . Once you can recognise the Elliptical wing , you can recognise the Spitfire very easily in flight . The Spitfire 's wing , particularly the trailing edge , is very curved compared to most other contemporary aircraft . The Hurricane 's wings are much more conventionally shaped , with both leading and trailing edges being straight ( a trait shared with aircraft like the Typhoon/Tempest , P-51 , Me109 , A6M " Zero " and most other aircraft from the WW2 era ) <URL> Late War Spitfires ( the above is a Mk 22 ) are even more distinctive : they have a " bubble " canopy that protrudes entirely from the fuselage .
There is no requirement to have the certificate with you on board during flight . The holder of a radio authorization shall , at the request of an inspector appointed pursuant to the Act , show the radio authorization or a copy thereof to the inspector within 48 hours after the request . Source : <URL>
Yes , that is correct procedure , except that if you 're flying an instrument approach , switching to destination altimeter should be part of your approach setup " chart briefing " ( which likely happens before you get handed off to the tower ) . From <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : [ Set the altimeter ] to the current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 NM of the aircraft , or if there is no station within this area , the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station . When an aircraft is en route on an instrument flight plan , air traffic controllers will furnish this information to the pilot at least once while the aircraft is in the controllers area of jurisdiction . In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio , set to the elevation of the departure airport or use an appropriate altimeter setting available prior to departure . Unfortunately the AIM text does n't directly address destination altimeter settings , but <URL> alludes to the fact that controllers must verify you have the best destination altimeter setting , either by telling you or by having you report that you have the current ATIS or the AWOS/ASOS broadcast ( " the numbers " for the latter ) : a. Numerous approach control facilities have established programs for arriving VFR aircraft to contact approach control for landing information . This information includes : wind , runway , and altimeter setting at the airport of intended landing . This information may be omitted if contained in the Automatic Terminal Information Service ( ATIS ) broadcast and the pilot states the appropriate ATIS code . b . Such information will be furnished upon initial contact with concerned approach control facility . The pilot will be requested to change to the tower frequency at a predetermined time or point , to receive further landing information . For instrument approaches under IFR , setting and checking the altimeter to the destination 's setting should be part of your approach briefing checklist . My personal " checklist " includes the altimeter setting as part of the weather information when I get to the bottom of the chart and check ATIS/ASOS/AWOS numbers against the approach minimums . Interestly enough , the FAA 's <URL> does n't have much to say on altimeter settings at all ( except for mentioning that keeping the setting up to date is important and that bad things can happen if you do n't ) .
The ceiling is the lowest altitude where clouds cover more than half of the sky . This is important because climbing above that altitude means you will most likely have to fly through clouds . <URL> and pilots are required to have special training to fly in low visibility . If the ceiling is too low , pilots ca n't be at a safe altitude above the ground and out of the clouds at the same time . Low ceilings are also critical for landing , and may require pilots to make an <URL> . <URL> refers to UTC time , which is the universal coordinated time . Zulu or UTC time is helpful as a worldwide reference in fields like aviation , to avoid issues like dealing with changing between local time zones . The ATIS will contain the Zulu time that it was updated so pilots know how recent the information is . The dew point in relation to the temperature gives the pilots information about the humidity , and can affect visibility . If the dew point is close to the temperature , humidity is high , which can cause hazy conditions , or even fog . As with the ceiling , this can warn pilots of possible changes in conditions that will make it harder to see the ground or other aircraft while in flight . In terms of aircraft performance , the dew point is also needed to determine the true <URL> , when <URL> . A high dew point means a higher density altitude , which reduces aircraft performance . Dew point is also very important in certain helicopters with carburetors , like the Robinson R-22 and R-44 helicopters , which are subject to carb icing even during take-off because they only use as-required power rather than full throttle . In this case , carb heat needs to be applied whenever the temp/dew point spread is 15C or less . Here is the citation from the <URL> : <URL>
Depending on what type of headset you wear , you may not need to worry . I wear a set of David Clark H10-13 .4 's , which have quite a bit of lateral clamping force on the sides of the head ( unlike , for example , the Bose A20 and clones , which rest mostly on top of the head and have much less inward force around the ears ) . I found that I was able to comfortably do all the basic maneuvers ( loops , rolls , spins , hammerheads ) as well as sustained inverted , negative 1G flight , without ever feeling like my glasses were in danger of leaving my face . Without knowing more about your headset and the type of maneuvers you were doing ( Mine were nowhere near what you 'd call extreme ) I ca n't be more specific , but you might be good to go just as you are .
When flying over mountains Pilots will have to encounter unpredictable winds , high density altitude , steeply rising terrain and box canyons , mountain waves , rotor clouds , turbulence , and clouds covering high ground . <URL> It is therefore essential to take the below mentioned factors into consideration : ( 1 ) ROUTE PLANNING : When flying over mountains Route Planning is extremely important because a straight line between two points may not always be the best way to go . Therefore , pick a route that avoids the rugged areas and highest peaks where an emergency landing could not be made . It usually takes very little extra time to bypass the most mountainous areas and follow major roads through more populated areas and lower terrain . Do not approach a ridge until you have sufficient altitude to cross with a safety margin . If you encounter too much sink , you must have enough altitude to turn away towards lower terrain . To make that turn as easy as possible , its wise to turn your aircraft to a 45-degree angle to the ridge before you cross . <URL> ( 2 ) THE TERRAIN FACTOR : The rising terrain will often out climb non-turbocharged aircraft . If your aircraft has a service ceiling of 14,500 ft. , that is based on standard atmospheric temperature which is 59 ° F at sea level and decreases an average of 3.5 ° F per thousand feet . If the surface temperature at 5000 ft. is 100 degrees , the density altitude on the ground is about 9,000 ft. When you climb to an indicated altitude of 9,500 feet you have reached the service ceiling of you aircraft . ( 3 ) THE WIND FACTOR : In a light aircraft , it is best to stay on the ground if the winds are greater than 35 miles per hour . Due to the venturi effect , winds will be much greater in the vicinity of mountain passes . Cross passes as high as possible , as downdrafts up to 2,000 feet per minute can occur on the leeward side.When strong winds of 40 to 50 miles per hour are blowing perpendicular to a mountain range , expect mountain waves and strong downdrafts for many miles on the leeward side . ( 4 ) THE CLOUD FACTOR : The combination of rising ground and lowering ceiling can be deadly . Mountains disappear not only in clouds , but also at night . You should not fly over high territory after sunset unless you are at the minimum en route IFR altitude which provides a 2,000 ft. clearance along airways . When flying after dark , closely monitor your altitude and when in a turn , your rate of descent . A mountain checkout flight is all that is required to get started . The checkout will enable you to operate around some pretty impressive terrain : Flatlander Focus : Two good books on the market are The Mountain Flying Bible by Sparky Imeson , and Flying the Mountains : A Training Manual for Flying Single-Engine Aircraft by Fletcher Fairchild Anderson . Reading either one will give you a solid foundation on which to build your skills . Most Importantly - Know Your Aircraft &amp; Its Limitations <URL> ( a ) What distance over the ground does your aircraft cover in a rate-one turn ? ( b ) What 's the distance for a steep turn ? ( c ) What speed and configuration do you use for reduced visibility and for a minimum radius turn ? ( d ) What is the best-angle-of-climb speed ? ( e ) Do you know the manoeuvring speed ( VA ) and understand its application in potentially turbulent conditions ? ( f ) How is your aircraft performance and handling affected by altitude and turbulence ? ( g ) How is performance affected when operating at maximum-all-up-weight ? Needless to say recent practice and currency are vitally important .
If possible , you should do whatever the operating handbook for your aircraft says but do n't hesitate to do something different if you think it 's necessary ( more on that below ) . I checked a couple of POHs that I have to hand and they do n't mention the doors specifically , but there is a slight difference in what they say about cabin ventilation . The C172S checklist emphasizes avoiding drafts , including shutting air vents and ventilating only after fighting the fire : ELECTRICAL FIRE IN FLIGHT Master Switch -- OFF . Vents , Cabin Air , Heat -- CLOSED . Fire Extinguisher -- ACTIVATE . Avionics Master Switch -- OFF . All Other Switches ( except ignition switch ) -- OFF . WARNING AFTER DISCHARGING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND ASCERTAINING THAT FIRE HAS BEEN EXTINGUISHED , VENTILATE THE CABIN . Vents/Cabin Air/Heat -- OPEN when it is ascertained that fire is completely extinguished . [ ... ] The PA28 checklist on the other hand says that the vents should be open : FIRE IN FLIGHT Electrical fire ( smoke in cabin ) : Master switch ... OFF Vents ... open Cabin heat ... OFF Land as soon as practicable But practically speaking , fire in the cabin is a really extreme situation and it 's hard to say that you should always follow the checklist ( if you even physically can ) . For example , if the cabin fills with smoke and you ca n't see anything at all you might have to try to clear the smoke somehow just to keep control of the aircraft , even at the risk of feeding the fire . The Piper POH acknowledges that the pilot is the best person to decide what to do : The procedure given is general and pilot judgement should be the determining factor for action in such an emergency For a real-life account of a cabin fire in a C172RG , see <URL> . They had to open the door to be able to see and land , which reinforces the point about doing whatever you have to do in an extreme scenario .
I am not a glider pilot , but the principle holds for flying any fixed wing aircraft1 : you should keep your head level with the aircraft , as you described , not the horizon . As your instructor explained , there may come -- or will come -- a time when you are not able to keep your head level with the horizon due to the nature of a particular maneuver or orientation , and that is a practical matter to consider . It is certainly difficult to incline one 's head 60 ° to the side in a steep turn . From my perspective , however , the more important reason is that your frame of reference needs to be the aircraft . You are used to viewing the world with the ground as your frame of reference ; down is down , up is up . As you learn to fly , however , you need to learn a new way to view three dimensional space , or -- more specifically -- the way you move through that space in the aircraft . It might sound cheesy , but you really need to learn to become one with the aircraft and hold the same perspective regardless of the aircraft 's orientation . Now , that being said , as you gain experience and develop your skills , you may come to realize that this perspective shift does not always require that your head remain rigidly perpendicular to your shoulders . Rather , it is a matter of perception which will eventually be independent of how your head is oriented relative to the aircraft . At my first flying job I spent much of my time in maneuvering flight and my head was rarely still -- much less level with the aircraft . I spent a great deal of time with my head on a swivel , looking up and down , side to side , craning forward to clear into a turn , looking back into the cockpit , etc. . At this stage in your training , however , it is probably important to train to keep your head straight within the aircraft ; certainly follow your instructor 's instructions , and you should do well . 1This probably holds true for rotorcraft as well , or any aircraft for that matter . I am only sharing what I am familiar with .
I have flown several times to SJC for touch and goes . I have always been on the weekends , and probably in the afternoons . It is a lot of fun , especially because the runways are so long for a small plane . I think I 've been three times , and each time they have accommodated me on 30L . The wind is almost always favoring the 30 runways , and I do n't remember ever being cleared for 30R . They will occasionally make you circle briefly before entering the C . They will also sometimes make you extend for a pretty long pattern to the SE if they have a big fella cleared for 30R . All the big commercial jets seem to be sent to 30R , and it is small GA jets that use 30L . I have only done touch and goes , as I wanted to get out of the way quickly . But I get the impression that the tower is happy to accommodate as long as they 're not too busy . My instructor told me that they sometimes will say ' no ' if they are busy , especially during the morning push , but I have no experience of that . Have fun ! There 's a beautiful 787 that is often at the terminal , keep an eye out for it !
end question
start question
Where can I get a history of METARs ?
<URL> is such a site that offers 30-day history for METARs/SPECIs and TAFs reports . The coverage is said to be worldwide . Here is a glance at the query interface : <URL> The site states these conditions of use for the reports : About all the codified met . reports ( SYNOPS , METAR ... ) , the copyright are from every country or source institution . To use them , read <URL> . ( essentially it says it 's free for use . )
Location Identifiers &amp; Airline Designators data files available with daily updates The perfect solution to feeding your coding database . These files ( more information in right hand column ) are available as a 12 month subscription or a one-time web download . For the subscription , you will be granted access to the password protected extranet site upon purchase where you can retrieve the data files update daily . <URL>
Pressure Altitude As defined by FAA in the <URL> : Pressure altitude is the height above a standard datum plane ( SDP ) , which is a theoretical level where the weight of the atmosphere is 29.92 " Hg ( 1,013.2 mb ) as measured by a barometer . An altimeter is essentially a sensitive barometer calibrated to indicate altitude in the standard atmosphere . If the altimeter is set for 29.92 " Hg SDP , the altitude indicated is the pressure altitude . As atmospheric pressure changes , the SDP may be below , at , or above sea level . Pressure altitude is important as a basis for determining airplane performance , as well as for assigning flight levels to airplanes operating at or above 18,000 feet . The pressure altitude can be determined by either of two methods : 1 . Setting the barometric scale of the altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indicated altitude . 2 . Applying a correction factor to the indicated altitude according to the reported altimeter setting . <URL> From <URL> § 91.217 Data correspondence between automatically reported pressure altitude data and the pilot 's altitude reference . ( a ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder -- ( 1 ) When deactivation of that equipment is directed by ATC ; ( 2 ) Unless , as installed , that equipment was tested and calibrated to transmit altitude data corresponding within 125 feet ( on a 95 percent probability basis ) of the indicated or calibrated datum of the altimeter normally used to maintain flight altitude , with that altimeter referenced to 29.92 inches of mercury for altitudes from sea level to the maximum operating altitude of the aircraft ; or ( 3 ) Unless the altimeters and digitizers in that equipment meet the standards of TSO-C10b and TSO-C88 , respectively . ( b ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder or with ADS-B Out equipment unless the pressure altitude reported for ADS-B Out and Mode C/S is derived from the same source for aircraft equipped with both a transponder and ADS-B Out . ICAO has described how they calculate Pressure Altitude <URL> <URL> When the ISA mean sea level standard pressure of 1013.2 hPa is set on an aircraft altimeter subscale , the height so indicated upon landing at an airfield is known as the QNE reading . More widely , this is also the PRESSURE ALTITUDE , which is alternatively defined as the height of any level in the international standard atmosphere ( ISA-see above ) , above the level corresponding to a pressure of 1013.2 hPa . <URL> to calculate standard atmospheric conditions ( ISA ) at a given geometric or pressure altitude and ambient temperature .
In the US it is a license as well , that 's why they abbreviate it PPL and CPL. Canada appears to have no restrictions on flight training of non-Canadians other than proving your own with something like a passport , because your citizenship is shown on your license . See this <URL> as a starting point . If you need to reside in Canada during your training and you expect to take longer than 6 months , you will need to obtain a Student Visa to remain in the country legally . You could also use a Tourist Visa , neither of which would all you to work . If you are planning on returning to the US when you are not training , then the Visa would not be required . Converting a Canadian pilot license to a US pilot license is governed by <URL> . It does n't look very complicated , but it will take time and you must take one or more knowledge tests as well as schedule an appointment at your local FSDO for the final approval . Note also that while you do n't have to surrender your Canadian license when you convert to a US license , if you do not that means that you must stay current based on both the US and Canadian rules . I suggest you very carefully study the requirements and do the full math . Once you get started on one path it wo n't be easy to switch to the other if you then realize it was a mistake . Interesting question , BTW . It was fun researching the answer . :)
Excerpt from the FAA Publication " <URL> " : Standard taxi routes improve ground management at highdensity airports , namely those that have airline service . At these airports , typical taxiway traffic patterns used to move aircraft between gate and runway are laid out and coded . The ATC specialist ( ATCS ) can reduce radio communication time and eliminate taxi instruction misinterpretation by simply clearing the pilot to taxi via a specific , named route . An example of this would be Los Angeles International Airport ( KLAX ) , where North Route is used to transition to Runway 24L . [ Figure 1-7 ] These routes are issued by ground control , and if unable to comply , pilots must advise ground control on initial contact . If for any reason the pilot becomes uncertain as to the correct taxi route , a request should be made for progressive taxi instructions . These step-by-step routing directions are also issued if the controller deems it necessary due to traffic , closed taxiways , airport construction , etc. . It is the pilot 's responsibility to know if a particular airport has preplanned taxi routes , to be familiar with them , and to have the taxi descriptions in their possession . Specific information about airports that use coded taxiway routes is included in the Notice to Airmen Publication ( NTAP ) . NTAP can be found on : <URL> At the time of writing the KLAX North Route example can be found on page 4-SW-11 , and reads : North Route Taxi towards taxilane Sierra ( S ) taxi northbound on taxilane Sierra ( S ) , and at Check-point-1 contact Ground Control on frequency 121.65 , hold short of taxiway Delta ( D ) . Taxilane Sierra ( S ) is not visible from the ATCT There 's also <URL> regulating Standard Taxi Routes ( STR 's ) as bilateral agreements ( LOA 's - Letter of Agreement ) between each ATC unit and their users ( airlines ) . The document contains information on what the LOA needs to contain . Outside of the US , standard taxi instructions , if any , could be expected to be found in the AD-section ( Aerodromes ) of that respective country 's AIP ( Aeronautical Information Publication ) . As an airline pilot , this information might be integrated into your company 's nav data solution , ie . information about standard taxi routes available to you would be written/drawn out bundled with your airport diagrams etc. .
Asia Hong Kong : <URL> Africa South Africa : fixed and to be at least 1000 ft above the highest ground within 25nm radius of an airfield ( <URL> ) Europe Belgium : 4,500 feet ( <URL> ) Netherlands : 3,000 feet ( IFR ) / 3,500 feet ( VFR ) ( <URL> ) Oceania Australia : 10,000 feet MSL ( <URL> New Zealand : 13,000 feet AMSL ( <URL> ) North America Canada : 18,000 feet ( <URL> ) United States : 18,000 feet MSL ( <URL> ) South America Argentina : Depends on terminal airspace Brasil : Depends on terminal airspace Chile : Depends on terminal airspace Colombia : 18,000 ft ( <URL> ) Ecuador : Depends on terminal airspace Paraguay : 3000 ft ( <URL> ) Perú : Depends on terminal airspace Uruguay : 3000 ft ( <URL> ) Venezuela : Depends on terminal airspace
See the notes on <URL> under the " Delivery " section . Looks like its formally called " long-line loiter " . There is a brief note on it <URL> and a US Patent <URL> and <URL> manual from the 70 's that seems to show how to do it and some related research on it . Here is a nice image of the maneuver
well , you 'd have to fly in whatever is the shortest route out of the icing conditions , obviously . What that would be depends on your speed , wind , climb/descent performance , and how you entered icing conditions . If you entered icing by climbing , diving may well get you out of it ( but if you were climbing to avoid terrain ... ) . If you were turning left , turning right might do it ( but were you turning left to avoid collisions ? ) . Etc. . Etc. . IOW there 's no universal answer , it 's way too situational .
Avoid rotating the propeller through a compression of one of the cylinders . You can easily rotate the propeller in either direction safely about 45 degrees before you feel a cylinder in compression . If you want to pull the propeller completely through a compression stroke you must be prepared for it to snap around after reaching the top of the compression stroke and that is how you must have whacked your knee . Normally after an engine shutdown the mixture is pulled to idle cutoff which would prevent fuel reaching the cylinders . Also if procedures are followed the magnetos that generate ignition sparks should be off after the end of a flight . So in theory it should be safe to pull the propeller thru during preflight . But still you need to consider that it is not completely without some small risk that the engine could start simply because humans make errors and machines can need maintenance .
Changes to federal aviation regulations are listed on the FAA 's Regulatory &amp; Guidance Library ( RGL ) at <URL> : From the home page , click on the database titled " Code of Federal Regulations " On the left , in the navigation tree , select one of the branches under " Historical CFR " ( for example , " By Part " ) On the right , expand the items leading to the regulation that you are looking for ( in this case Part 61 ) Scroll down to the regulation that you are looking for ( 61.51 ) and it will list the original version and all of the revisions : Each revision is a link which takes you to the regulation as of that version , with links to the NPRM 's and dockets so that you can see what has been changed !
This is heavily dependent on the local jurisdictions you plan to operate in and what their laws are . First off you must find out if your desired countries of operation accept foreign certificates . This varies heavily all over the world and can range from full no questions asked acceptance , to you needing to simply take the test again ( in that country ) through any various case you can think of . Second you need to find out what certificate you need . Here in the US to give rides ( and receive compensation for such ) you need a commercial certificate . This looks like it <URL> . Hours . The FAA requires a few more hours than the Canadian certificate will , <URL> Are at least 16 years of age ; and Have logged at least 10 hours of flight time in a glider and that flight time must include at least 20 total glider flights , and Have 2 hours of solo flight time in a glider , and Have passed the FAA written examination ; and Have passed the flight exam with a FAA Examiner . <URL> A minimum of 6 hours of flight training under the direction and supervision of an instructor At least 2 hours of solo flight time , including a minimum of 20 takeoffs and 20 landings Right off the bad Canada requires 4 less hours which , no matter how you spin it will be cheaper ( since you have to pay for less time ) . Here is the US if you are not a citizen you will need to pass an NTSB background check to train . I do not know if Canada has a similar requirement . Travel , assuming you are in the Caribbean already it may be cheaper to travel to Florida ( or the like ) to train then go all the way up to Canada for your training . Edit : According to this document the ECCAA does issue glider ratings <URL> ( a ) The Authority may issue the following ratings for pilots ( i ) Category ratings in the following aircraft : ( a ) Aeroplane ; ( b ) Rotorcraft ; ( c ) Glider ; ( d ) Lighter-than-air ; ( e ) Power lift .
The FAA 's <URL> : Is an FAA-issued pilot certificate required to operate a civil UAS under an experimental airworthiness certificate or a grant of exemption under Section 333 ? If the aircraft is issued an airworthiness certificate , a pilot certificate is required .5 Pilot certification requirements for petitions for exemption under Section 333 are evaluated on a case-by-case basis . The footnote links to this <URL> called Airworthiness Certification of Unmanned Aircraft Systems and Optionally Piloted Aircraft , which says : b. UA PIC Certification and Ratings Requirements . ( 1 ) The PIC must hold and be in possession of , at a minimum , an FAA private pilot certificate , with either an airplane , rotorcraft , or powered-lift category ; with single - or multiengine class ratings , appropriate to the type of UA being operated . ( 2 ) The PIC must have and be in possession of a valid second-class ( or higher ) airman medical certificate issued under 14 CFR part 67 , Medical Standards and Certification . So , it looks like there are two possibilities : Your UAS has an airworthiness certificate , therefore you need a pilot 's license per the Order ( private at least , not sport or recreational ) Your UAS does n't have an airworthiness certificate , therefore your section 333 petition will be evaluated individually and the FAA will tell you if you need a license or not
If what you 're asking is to see groundspeed history of a certain type of aircraft , you can choose a type here : <URL> Then follow the links to see its flight track history as shown here : <URL>
ICAO publishes and maintains 19 Annexes to the Chicago Convention . They pertain to all matters in aviation and provide the framework for national legislation in each of the member countries in the form of Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) . In addition to the 19 Annexes , ICAO also produces more detailed guidance in the form of Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) : PANS-ABC , PANS-OPS , PANS-ATM . These are also usually referenced by their Doc number : 2007 , 8168 , 4444 , etc In addition to the PANS , for specific regions of the world ICAO publishes Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPP ) to incorporate regional variants/requirements . Any ICAO contracting state may have local legislation different from SARP/PANS , but is obliged to notify ICAO of these differences . You will find these differences in the country 's AIP section GEN. Getting electronic copies of these documents is a bit more difficult . ICAO <URL> for a very ' aviation ' price . Some CAA 's and institutions will provide <URL> , but they will most likely be out of date and their legality is suspicious at best . Welcome to the world of international law .
Simply put , ExpertFlyer gets its data from purchasing it from the GDSs ( global distribution systems for airlines ) these are the same systems that travel agents ( online and off ) use to book tickets/travel for their customers . This has a cost but has advantages vs free but less reliable means of acquiring flight data . Other services may screen scrape ( take ) information from public airline websites , however airlines frown upon that . We have seen active campaigns by airlines to go after services that collect data in this manor . Please note , this post is not meant to be " promotional " however fully answering the question posed requires explaining how different services may acquire flight data . Also , if the name " ExpertFlyer Voice " did n't indicate to you , I am a representative of ExpertFlyer.com
Wings may be tough to come by as they generally last the life of the plane and can be re-skinned/fixed if need be so they are not scrapped all that frequently . You can try a used parts dealer like <URL> or <URL> but they generally deal in air worthy parts which will not be cheap . Here is a guy <URL> he " has wings " , you may want to give him a call and check other part out <URL> adds . Your best bet may be to wonder on down to your local GA field and ask some questions at the FBO or maintenance facility if there is one . Its more than likely someone has a wing or wing section that is no longer air worthy from some accident or the like . You may even just see a junked wing sitting in a field behind a hangar ... STC 's are specific to part or aircraft/engine so testing on a generic wing may not be a good basis ( depending on what you are doing ) you may want to get the wing from the aircraft you intend to STC .
In systems theory , <URL> is the " phenomenon whereby larger entities arise through interactions among smaller or simpler entities such that the larger entities exhibit properties the smaller/simpler entities do not exhibit . " I think this best describes how the airspace design came to be from nothing . In the beginning ... There was air mail . The pilots had hard time finding their way despite the US Postal Service installing lighted beacons connecting the major routes . Then came a 20-something year old chap by the name of <URL> . He made a cheat sheet that everyone wanted . The aeronautical charts and the <URL> 's precursor was born . He even included farmers ' telephone numbers for weather reports . The Department of Commerce then funded a better airway system . First there was the <URL> , which gave way to VOR and NDB . NDB is now extinct in the wild , and VOR is vulnerable . GPS gave birth to the free route airspace . <URL> ( SkyVector ) Airways black hole in Europe ( Free Route implementation ) . Who draws the map ? Everyone . Each country designs its airspace , but since airspaces share borders ( even over water ) , countries also work together . Article 68 of the 1944 Convention on International Civil Aviation says : Each contracting State may , subject to the provisions of this Convention , designate the route to be followed within its territory by any international air service and the airports which any such service may use . Or , as the <URL> puts it : Before an airline can operate international services to another country , the government must first negotiate a treaty level agreement with the destination country 's government . These treaties are known as bilateral air services agreements . The result is that international aviation is regulated by a complex web of over 3000 interlocking bilateral air services agreements . <URL> Map of bilateral air services agreements . International waters <URL> ( <URL> ) In civil aviation , the <URL> ( born c. 1947 ) share borders . They are not limited to 12 NM offshore like territorial waters . In the Mediterranean Sea for example , Egypt and Greece share a border . So does Scotland and Norway across the North Sea . Along the shared border are waypoints shared by both countries , they form the entry/exit points to/from each county 's national air system . Airways that cross borders form regional networks , they have different prefixes from airways that never leave an FIR . See : ICAO Annex 11 . Really , who draws the map ? The <URL> ( ANSP ) of each country , by working with the <URL> ( NAA ) , other countries , airlines , ICAO , IATA , etc. . An example would be the FAA redrawing the map for the <URL> . Each ANSP or NAA will have an airspace design unit responsible for the analysis , design , and simulation of the airspace system , among other tasks . Guidelines and regulations exist on the local and international levels for every aspect of the route and sector design . An example would be ICAO Annex 11 . A typical team and process ( via <URL> ) : <URL> <URL> This process takes 280 days to complete . The bigger the scale , the more cooperative the process becomes , for example check this <URL> webpage for the EU . <URL> ( <URL> ) Software for airspace design . Demand and technology It 's supply following demand . You do n't see many airways above the Tibetan Plateau for example . And of course the technological advances are a huge driving force . A bend in an airway due to a mountain range shielding a VOR can now go away thanks to GPS , RNAV , RNP , etc. .
Basically , there are two ways . One is easy but imprecise , and the other is hard but more precise . First the easy one : Look at other aircraft and estimate how much winglets affect lift and drag . Make sure to do this at several lift coefficients ; winglets help much more at high lift coefficients . Do n't forget to account for the added mass of the winglets and their added friction over their surface area . Bonus points for estimating losses due to sideslip . The hard way is to do a numerical simulation of the wing . Since you want to know what difference the winglets make , you can focus on a comparison between a regular and a winglet-equipped wing and transfer the effect to the full airplane . For the lift and induced drag effects , you will at least need to divide the wing into panels and simultaneously solve the <URL> equations for bound vortices at the quarter chord of each panel plus the trailing free vortices with control points at the three-quarter point where local flow must be parallel with local wing inclination . Make sure you use a method which does better than to assume that all panels lie in one plane ! I have no experience with Simulink - I guess there are libraries around for vortex lattice or even Euler codes , but if you are free to choose your tools , maybe it is worth to take a look at <URL> . This should work out of the box for your project , and all you need to add is a proper input file .
Per <URL> , yes . That said , you ca n't just find an open field-there may be local/state regulations regarding helicopter operations . 14 CFR 91.119 : ( 1 ) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) of this section , provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA
<URL> has declared values for part shipments , including one with the 140N2139-4 , which is the assembly containing the seal , mid pane , and outer pane for the 737 NG . The declared value is 24,562 INR which is currently about 375 USD . A shipment of 20 also listed has a lower unit price . For searching purposes GKN has part numbers in <URL> You typically have to ask for a quote from suppliers .
end question
start question
What are ISA +10 , ISA -15 and ISA -30 ?
ISA+X is the ISA atmosphere with X ° C of variation . It ´ s used to determine how diferent ( in terms of Temperature ) of the Standard the actual condictions are and adjust the calculations . ISA as you said is : +15 ° C / 0ft / 1013.2 hpa / LAT 45 ° / Term . Grad . -2 ° C/1000ft So , ISA +5 is : +20 ° C / 0ft / 1013.2 hpa / LAT 45 ° / Term . Grad . -2 ° C/1000ft The pratical use is like the following : If you are at FL075 and the OAT is -15 ° C whats your difference to ISA ? So you are 15 ° C below the ISA temp at your FL or simply ISA-15 .
ICAO is headquartered in Montreal because that was the <URL> by the founding members ( PICAO is Provisional ICAO ) : Why was Montreal selected ? While insisting on the excellent hospitality offered since of the beginnings of PICAO by the federal , provincial and municipal authorities , the delegates described Montreal like a roundabout of the international means of communication and a strategic centre with a formidable economic , scientific , technical and aeronautical expansion being felt for a few years . One insisted on the vast spaces of the Canadian territory , offering unlimited possibilities for the scientific and practical experiments in the field of aviation . Moreover , PICAO was to be established as close as possible to the central head office of the United Nations . And IATA is in Montreal because its founding statutes said that <URL> : Article II of the IATA 1945 Statutes states that " The Head Office of this Association shall be maintained in the city in which the headquarters of the International Civil Aviation Organization is located . " ; this article was later amended to leave an opening for a possible other place as determined by the General Meeting
Lycoming engines have the camshaft above the crankshaft , and Continental engines have the cam below the crankshaft . This seems to keep the Conti cams better oiled and therefore less susceptible to corrosion .
Yes , increased maneuverability and redundancy are the main benefits of this layout . Another is a wider possible range of the center of gravity . In the video linked in Federico 's comment you can see that the canards reach high negative deflection angles in high-alfa attitudes : This means they will still operate in attached flow when wing and tail are already fully stalled . A canard-less airplane would only have thrust vectoring for control in this situation . Also noticeable in the video is the negative static stability which becomes evident in the lively elevator movements during the landing approach towards the end of the video . When you need agile pitch controls for artificial stability , it helps to have a second pair of them in highly dynamic maneuvers . The small size of the canards might be misleading : Since they will affect the flow over the inner wing , they are quite effective and powerful control surfaces . A multirole , long-range aircraft will have to deal with a wide variety of ordnance and fuel loads , so the addition of canards will allow to trim a wider range of c.g. positions . Without them , some load configurations , and consequently some missions , might not be possible .
If the nose landing gear ( NLG ) makes contact first , but the plane settles down on the runway , that 's a nose-down landing . If the landing is normal , i.e. the main landing gear ( MLG ) touches down first , but the plane bounces , only to settle down on the MLG , that 's a bounced landing . If the plane bounces , after scenarios 1 or 2 , but proceeds to land on the NLG , leading to multiple bounces on the NLG , that 's a porpoise landing . Risking structural failure . <URL> Source : <URL>
This depends : Under part 91 , you just have to remain clear of clouds and have a minimum of a 1,000 ft. ceiling and 3 SM visibility . Commercial operations ( 121 and 135 ) are further restricted by their Operations Specifications and have to maintain VFR weather minimums appropriate for the airspace that they are in ( among other things , see below ) . Here is an excerpt from the AIM ( there is more details there for different operations , with the differences between controlled and uncontrolled fields , etc. ) <URL> a . A visual approach is conducted on an IFR flight plan and authorizes a pilot to proceed visually and clear of clouds to the airport . The pilot must have either the airport or the preceding identified aircraft in sight . This approach must be authorized and controlled by the appropriate air traffic control facility . Reported weather at the airport must have a ceiling at or above 1,000 feet and visibility 3 miles or greater . ATC may authorize this type approach when it will be operationally beneficial . Visual approaches are an IFR procedure conducted under IFR in visual meteorological conditions . Cloud clearance requirements of 14 CFR Section 91.155 are not applicable , unless required by operation specification . The Part 135 Ops Spec for this contains the following requirements for a visual approach : b. Terminal arrival IFR - Visual approach or a Charted Visual Flight Procedure ( CVFP ) . The flightcrew may accept a visual approach or a CVFP provided all the following conditions exist . The flightcrew may not accept a visual approach or a CVFP unless the limitations and provisions of subparagraph f. of this operations specification are met . ( 1 ) The flight is operated and remains in Class B , C , or D airspace , within 35 miles of the destination airport in Class E airspace , or the airspace beneath the designated transition area . ( 2 ) The flight is under the control of an Air Traffic Control ( ATC ) facility . ( 3 ) The flightcrew must maintain the basic cloud clearance as specified in Section 91.155 . ( 4 ) For a visual approach without a CVFP - The flightcrew must be able to establish and maintain visual contact with the airport or maintain visual contact with the traffic to be followed as directed by ATC . In addition , the following provisions and weather conditions at the airport during the approach must be met : ( a ) Reported visibility must be as specified in Section 91.155 , but not lower than a visibility of three miles and reported ceiling must be 1,000 feet or greater , or ( b ) When in the terminal area with the reported visibility not lower than three miles and ceiling not reported , the flightcrew may continue to a landing if the runway of intended landing is in sight and the flightcrew can maintain visual contact with the runway throughout the approach and landing , and ( c ) Ceiling and cloud clearance must be as such to allow the flightcrew to maintain the minimum altitudes prescribed in Section 91.129 , 91.130 , or 91.131 , as applicable for the airspace class in which the flight is operated . ( 5 ) For a CVFP - The flightcrew must be able to establish and maintain visual contact with the airport or the charted visual landmark ( s ) for the CVFP throughout the approach and landing . In addition , the weather conditions at the airport at the time of the approach must be reported to be at or above the weather minima established for the CVFP , but never lower than the VFR landing weather minima stated in Section 135.205 in uncontrolled airspace . ... f. Special Limitations and Provisions for Visual Flight Rules . All VFR operations authorized by this operations specification shall be conducted in accordance with the following limitations and provisions . ( 1 ) The certificate holder must identify obstacles and use airport obstacle data which ensures that the performance requirements of Part 135 are met . ( 2 ) The weather conditions must allow the flightcrew sufficient visibility to identify and avoid obstacles and safely maneuver using external visual references and to maintain minimum altitudes .
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
Commercial aircraft are insured in exactly the same way that companies insure other vehicles like cars . Broadly speaking , a company - the airline in this case - purchases hull insurance and liability insurance . The hull insurance covers damage to the aircraft and the liability insurance covers other costs like damage to property , medical payments , compensation to passengers and other costs caused by an event . <URL> has a <URL> . There are also all sorts of specialized insurance policies available to cover specific flights , aircraft , countries , cargoes etc. . Small private aircraft can be insured in the same way , although many owners of older , less valuable aircraft do n't buy hull insurance because over a period of years the premiums can be more than the value of the aircraft . Most pilots do carry liability insurance , however , to cover medical or other expenses for themselves and their passengers ( although in the US at least there 's no requirement for pilots to have any insurance at all ) . I do n't know anything about military aircraft and it 's a more complicated case : governments are <URL> ( at least , you ca n't sue them ) so it really depends on the legal situation and practices in each country .
The primary advance in the transistor era is the <URL> . It 's essentially a fly-by-wire throttle , incorporating rate limiters to key engine inputs such as fuel flow rate , and performing automated monitoring tasks to reduce flight crew workload . Prior to the FADEC system , sufficiently complex jet aircraft required a crew member , the flight engineer , whose primary task was monitoring and maintaining engine performance in flight . Additionally , jets without a FADEC require particular attention paid by the pilot ( s ) to the rate at which the throttle is adjusted ; you ca n't just firewall it for a takeoff as that will cause a compressor stall .
It 's signalled from the cockpit ( the cabin chime ) to let the cabin crew know it 's OK to move around . If you watch , this happens before the seat belt sign goes off which at the earliest , is at 10,000 feet .
Near as I know , the answer to the first question is no . The aircraft requires that a tail stand be fitted to it when the gun , magazine and electromechanical drive mechanism is removed for maintenance . Operation of the A-10 without the gun would exceed the weight and balance envelope for the aircraft , making flight , as well as ground operations hazardous . The A-10 has been proposed for use as a converted water bomber to fight forest fires but this balance problem without a counterweight installed in this region would make this very difficult . <URL> If one was going to remove the gun for a ferry flight , it would have to be fitted with some kind of counterweight in its place , which would defeat the original purpose of removing the gun .
Conceptually , N1 is the fan ( or , fan speed ) and is most related to your thrust ( since the fan produces more thrust than the core on today 's big motors ) . The N2 is the engine core , and the N2 gauge is used mainly during engine start : on initial starter engagement , the N2 starts turning first , and things like adding fuel + ignition and then later disengaging the starter are based on specified N2 speeds . As long as you have N1 rotation before lighting the engine off , N1 is n't all that important during the start . But once it is running , power is generally set with reference to the N1 ( or fuel flow or EGT or EPR ) rather than the N2 . This picture of 727 instruments shows , from top to bottom , the N1 , EPR , EGT , N2 , and Fuel Flow indicators . You can tell ( hopefully ) how the N1 and N2 are both tachometers , showing percentages instead of values , because it 's a lot easier to talk about 52 % N2 than 6350 N2 RPM . The picture below shows an example of the engine stack displayed on a modern EICAS panel , with the N1 and the EGT displayed prominently , and everything else just shown as digital values ( with no EPR indication in this aircraft ) . This is a typical in-flight presentation , showing you the two things you most care about with large displays , and everything else available if you really need it .
At least in the US there are plenty of ways to get a flight briefing . My usual sources of pre-flight information are , roughly in order : <URL> No kidding , if I 'm planning a long/multi-day trip I 'll start looking at the long-range forecasts 10 days before my flight using The Weather Channel 's iPhone app or their website . As far as weather information goes it 's pretty decent ( which means " frequently wrong up until 24 hours before go-time , but still worth paying attention to " ) . Charts ( <URL> or <URL> ) , <URL> , and <URL> If you 're planning more than a hop around the local pattern you should familiarize yourself with the airspace you 'll be passing through , landmarks ( and obstacles ) on the ground , and navaid / airport frequencies . Charts and other FAA publications provide a great way to do that , and you can also usually pick up a phone and call the airport you 're flying to for additional information . All of this documentation is available in a variety of forms - Paper , electronic downloads direct from the FAA ( as linked above ) , or as part of flight-planning software like Foreflight , Garmin Pilot , WingX Pro , etc. . <URL> A few days before a planned flight it 's worth reading the forecaster 's discussion to see how confident the people predicting the weather are about their guesses . This is also something you should check the day of departure if there 's any uncertainty about the weather . Electronic briefing tools ( <URL> / <URL> / Foreflight/etc . ) About 24 hours out you can get official briefings from DUAT/DUATS/Foreflight and a bunch of other flight planning tools . Get them and learn to read them . Electronic briefings from many of these tools are recorded and count as an " official briefing " - a record is made that you requested and received the information . You are responsible for understanding all the information that just got dumped in your lap however , and that 's a huge responsibility , especially for a student pilot ! <URL> ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) The day of departure your final briefing should be a phone call to flight service to speak with an actual briefer to review your flight . If you can sit down and have your electronic briefing from # 3 in front of you it 's very helpful because you can follow along with the briefer to be sure you did n't miss anything . Calls to Flight Service are recorded and count as an official briefing . If you 're unclear on anything you 're being told you can ask for clarification . Of all the tools available I personally think the best one is calling flight service and speaking to a briefer . <URL> I 'd say they 're skipping out on a critical bit of your training , and you owe it to yourself to pick up the phone and . This is your big chance to talk to a live human being and ask any questions - big ones that I always ask are " Are there any TFRs along my route of flight ? " , and if I 'm anywhere near a restricted area I 'll check its status ( " Is R-12345 active ? " ) .
ISA+X is the ISA atmosphere with X ° C of variation . It ´ s used to determine how diferent ( in terms of Temperature ) of the Standard the actual condictions are and adjust the calculations . ISA as you said is : +15 ° C / 0ft / 1013.2 hpa / LAT 45 ° / Term . Grad . -2 ° C/1000ft So , ISA +5 is : +20 ° C / 0ft / 1013.2 hpa / LAT 45 ° / Term . Grad . -2 ° C/1000ft The pratical use is like the following : If you are at FL075 and the OAT is -15 ° C whats your difference to ISA ? So you are 15 ° C below the ISA temp at your FL or simply ISA-15 .
Two things : <URL> . This can be alleviated by carefully touching down , but you never know what exactly will happen in the next landing , so better do n't count on it to be smooth Deceleration distance : The higher mass requires a higher approach and touch down speed ( higher by the square root of the mass ratio between your actual mass and the maximum certified landing mass ) . Now you have more mass and more speed , but the landing strip and the airliner 's brakes are still the same . The risk is that you overshoot the runway with an airplane full of fuel or that you overheat the brakes ( which will result in their failure , and again an overshoot ) . Since the kinetic energy is proportional to mass times speed squared , the energy which needs to be absorbed by the brake goes up with the square of the mass increase . If the selected runway for your overweight landing is long enough and the weather is calm ( so a smooth landing is easier ) , an overweight landing is not such a problem . Now let 's look at the 777-300ER in detail . I use the figures from <URL> , because the <URL> is trying much harder to hide the relevant data . The MTOW ( maximum take-off weight , which is actually a mass ) is 351,534 kg , and the maximum landing weight is 251,290 kg , about 100 tons less . Now let 's assume that <URL> and returning to the airfield uses 5 tons of fuel , so the mass ratio is 1.379 . Therefore , the approach speed has to be 17.4 % higher and the total kinetic energy at touchdown is higher by a factor of 1.9 compared to the case at maximum allowable landing weight . If we now assume that speed is reduced linearly during the landing run and that the wheel brakes will just absorb as much energy over time as in the case at maximum landing weight , the deceleration needs to be lower by the mass ratio , so the aircraft decelerates with only 72.5 % of the deceleration at maximum landing weight . To shed its kinetic energy , the landing run will take longer by the increase in kinetic energy , i.e. 1.9 . Since the average speed is also higher by 17.4 % , the landing distance will be higher by a factor of 2.233 or 223 % of the landing distance at maximum landing weight . This neglects that the heating of the brakes is an instationary process , so you can not simply brake with the same intensity for more than twice the time they were designed for . But this little estimation should illuminate what impact a higher landing mass has on the energy and distance involved .
The difference is in mission , and the difference is non trivial . The twin rotor configuration goes back to the 1960 's . ( <URL> . The CH-47 replaced it in Viet Nam in 1965 ) . Chinook became the Army 's heavy tactical lift during Vietnam . Like the C-130 , that particular design is timeless . The CH-47F is the current configuration . It carries about twice as much as a CH-46 could . It is also one of the faster helicopters there is ( it can fly almost 200kts ) though the CH-53E has flown faster . The CH-46 was an adaptation of the same idea , but made smaller and marinized : it had to meet a host of Marine Corps and Navy requirements to fit on amphibious ships and supply ships . Space and fit are non-trivial limitations when writing requirements for naval aircraft . ( As an aside , the US military no longer operates the CH-46 . It appears that the last CH-46 squadron in the USMC , <URL> , let go of its last Phrogs in 2015 <URL> <URL> ) Not having to take off some power for a tail rotor is an advantage . The CH-46 mission for the Marine Corps was vertical assault ( it carried more than a Huey and predecessors like <URL> ) ; for the Navy , it was the <URL> mission . The payload and maneuvering benefits from the lack of a tail rotor made the VERTREP mission a perfect fit for the CH-46 . One of the challenges in ship borne operations is the ability to run simultaneously resupply by air and ship-to-ship ( <URL> ) while not being operationally constrained ( for the ship drivers ) " getting into the wind . " That limitation tail rotor helicopters do n't handle as well as the CH-46 . ( That point was a core argument against CH-60S as replacement for CH-46 ; but that 's another matter ) . I 've flown VERTREP in helicopters with tail rotors ; the CH-46 was less constrained than we were . What about Marine and Navy Heavy Lift missions ? The Marine Heavy lift ( analogue to the CH-47 for the Army and Air Force CSAR ) is fulfilled with the CH-53 , and has been for over 40 years . The CH-53 can fold its tail to fit on a ship . You ca n't fold a Chinook . The Navy VOD ( heavy lift ) was handled by CH-53 's for 40 years . <URL> ( Flexible , that 's helicopters ! ) Smart Requirement Writing led to smart choices " The Military " would have made a significant mistake " to just make one type " since back in the 60s and 70s , making mission specific aircraft was the way to go . Quite frankly , it makes for cheaper aircraft to build it for one core mission . ( See the A-10 as a fine example of that ) . Note : An early failure in " one size fits all " was the F-111 . A current " one size fits all " example of cost going through the roof is F-35 . At the time the CH-46 and CH-47 were procured , the military was smart : apply the KISS principle to get aircraft that fit mission requirements . The Army and Navy mission requirements were not identical . ( So how do I know all that ? 25 years Navy pilot ( helicopters , ASW warfare specialty , did other stuff like Vertrep ... ) , significant experience in multi-service operations , and a few years having to work in an acquisition job . )
Angle of Attack is the angle between the chord line of the airfoil and the relative wind . The elevator is also a " wing " in the effect that it is an airfoil . 1 ) Then what is the angle between the chord line of the elevator and relative wind ? Because if I am not wrong , by pitching the elevator up , the wing of an aircraft is subjected to the ' angle of attack ' . It 's also called " Angle Of Attack " . Pitching the elevator up also changes the angle of attack of the elevator . There are such conditions as elevator stall , although much less common than wing stall . 2 ) When you say angle of attack exceed critical angle of attack , is it because the elevator is pitched up thus creating wider angle between the chord line and the relative direction of the wind ? The " Critical AoA " is the angle at which the airfoil is generating the most lift . [ <URL> ] : The critical angle of attack is the angle of attack which produces maximum lift coefficient . This is also called the " stall angle of attack " . Below the critical angle of attack , as the angle of attack increases , the coefficient of lift ( Cl ) increases . At the same time , above the critical angle of attack , as angle of attack increases , the air begins to flow less smoothly over the upper surface of the airfoil and begins to separate from the upper surface Usually when you exceed the critical AoA , the air on the upper surface of the airfoil de-laminates and becomes turbulent . This results in a loss of lift ( stall ) . <URL> <URL> 3 ) In the Air France 447 accident , the PF kept saying , keeps the wings level . What does it mean ? How can the wings be leveled when the angle of attack is so high ? Does keeping the wings level means reducing the angle of attack to zero ? I 'm not sure what context you are talking about . I 've read the transcripts pretty carefully and I do n't recall the PF saying to keep the wings level . The Captain said to descend , while the PF was trying to climb . The SIC was pushing the stick forward while the PF was pulling back , causing the wings to remain level ( or at a slight climb ) . Keeping the wings level ( avoiding an un-coordinated turn ) in a stall condition is the best way to avoid putting the aircraft into a spin . This is possibly what they meant , although they did n't know that they were in a stall ( or if they did , they were not reacting to it appropriately ) . Yes , leveling the wings would be making the AoA at zero ( zero meaning where the airfoil is developing lift , and depending on the bank angle ) , but only if there were positive airspeed to make the relative wind parallel with the chord . In the case of AF447 , the aircraft was falling out of the sky at a spectacular 15,000 FPM , which means that the relative wind to the airfoil was basically perpendicular . They did n't have the forward airspeed to change the AoA , so they should have lowered the nose to gain airspeed and decrease the AoA . The important thing to remember is that the pitch angle of the aircraft is not the same as the AoA . You can take an aircraft at zero forward speed and drop it straight down , the pitch angle will be zero but the AoA will be perpendicular .
According to <URL> DFW ( <URL> ) is the largest at 4360 hectares . According to <URL> DXB ( <URL> ) has the largest terminal in terms of floorspace at 1,713,000 m2 ( 18,440,000 sq ft ) with a volume of approximately 10.0 million m ³ ( 360 million cu ft ) According to <URL> ATL ( <URL> ) has 206 gates Ca n't find this one
These are indeed related to MRO activities . Line maintenance generally refers to minor , unscheduled or scheduled maintenance carried out on aircraft that occurs at or near the gate or terminal ( Tarmac ) , launch area , ready area , hardstand or alert area . This is usually carried out by the operator . This is the basic level of maintenance and is limited by the ground support equipment available . Third Party Base Maintenance refers to the base maintenance ( i.e. maintenance done in aircraft hangar with special tools ) carried out by a third party - other than the manufacturer and the operator . This is usually the next level of maintenance . Component maintenance refers to the maintenance carried out on some component removed from the aircraft ( for e.g. rotable or LRU ) due to fault or completion of specified service time in a dedicated shop or lab . These are usually done for avionics units , engines , transmission items etc. . This is usually done by the OEM or their authorized agent .
Mainly , the optimum cruise altitude is where thrust and lift requirements for both take-off and cruise balance well . An additional benefit is the colder air which increases the <URL> . Since this helpful drop in temperature ceases once the aircraft climbs above the <URL> , the benefits of flying higher increase most below the tropopause . With increasing flight altitude , the airliner needs : Bigger engines to create the needed thrust in thinner air Bigger wings to create the needed lift With the wings , the size of the tailplanes will also grow ; this effect alone likely will weigh more than the beefing up of the fuselage structure for the increased cabin pressure . Flying higher will make almost all parts bigger and heavier . Note that <URL> for efficient flight ; airliners can not compensate for lower density by flying faster . The only way to allow higher flight levels is to attach bigger wings and tails . Another consideration is Breguet 's formula : Jet aircraft have their <URL> at a value of $ c_L = \ sqrt { 0.6 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot AR \ cdot \ epsilon } $ , if we assume the thrust of high-bypass-ratio engines to vary with speed proportional to $ v ^ { -0.5 } $ , which is a reasonable assumption . This means the airliner can not fly higher by flying at a higher lift coefficient : This would decrease efficiency . ( Nomenclature : $ c _ { D0 } $ = zero-lift drag , $ AR$ = wing aspect ratio , $ \ epsilon $ = span efficiency ) With the wing size and the engines needed for flight at Mach 0.82 in the tropopause ( Mach 0.85 is really not as efficient ; follow <URL> to find out why this is the quoted cruise speed for long-range airliners ) , the take-off distance is quite reasonable and approximately matches the airports which had been defined by NATO during the cold war . Flying any higher into the stratosphere would increase the aircraft 's mass due to bigger engines and wings , but would not incur the efficiency gains of increasing cruise altitude in the troposphere , where temperature drops with altitude . Conversely , picking a lower design cruise altitude would allow to make both wings and engines smaller , but this would translate into : Higher take-off and landing speeds , and critical speeds during take-off due to the smaller wing , Lower take-off acceleration due to smaller engines , For twins : Not enough thrust during take-off when one engine fails , Lower climb speeds , so it would take longer to reach cruise altitude , and Not fully taking advantage of the cold air up in the tropopause . Designing for a lower cruise altitude would translate into much longer runways and less efficient flight overall . Designing for cruise in the tropopause is simply the sweet spot for airliner designers where all conditions match well and produce a balanced outcome .
end question
start question
Why 1st and 2nd class but not fast or slow airplanes ?
is n't the cost directly proportional to speed ? No . Most fuel can be saved by flying higher because the lower air density reduces parasite drag . Provided the trip is long enough for the saving at altitude to offset the cost of getting there . Aircraft drag has two components . The parasite drag which increases with speed and the induced drag which decreases . So they have a point of minimum drag and for jet airliners it 's typically somewhere between 200 and 250 knots indicated . Flying any slower would increase the cost . At the altitude where jets normally fly , the true speed is significantly higher than indicated speed . For jet engines , the fuel burned is roughly proportional to thrust they generate and at higher thrust lower per unit of thrust . Since power is thrust times speed , this translate to much better efficiency at higher speed . So a jet wants to fly slightly faster than their lowest drag point . Even if the trip cost is higher , higher speed allows you to make more trips , so the fixed costs get split over more passengers . So it makes sense to fly slightly faster than the lowest fuel burn . Generally airliners are operated at the point of lowest cost . For long trips where it pays off to climb high , jets are most efficient . For short trips , turboprops are often used that ca n't climb that high , but are more efficient at lower altitudes and speeds .
NOTE : as pointed out in the comments , none of these quick verification steps actually guarantees that the airplane you clambered into is certified for LPV approaches , or for IFR GPS usage at all ! On boot , a 430W will display that it 's a 430W : Aside from that , I 'm sure there 's a version info screen somewhere ( on both G1000 and GNS430 ) , but the best solution I can think of is to check the satellite status screen . I 'm trying to find examples of a 430W displaying it , and failing , but on a G1000 , you 'll see this : <URL> ( <URL> ) If the G1000 supports WAAS , it 'll display that under the ' SBAS Selection ' header and you 'll see satellites at the bottom numbered in the 100s - , , , etc - all the 100-series satellites are the WAAS augmentation satellites . The satellites augmented by WAAS will also have a " D " at the bottom of the signal strength column .
This depends on how the systems are plumbed , and while this is likely an exception , for some airplanes like the EMB-145 , the answer is yes . The EMB-145 has 2 hydraulic systems . System # 1 serviced the outboard brakes and system # 2 serviced the inboard brakes and the parking brake . The parking brake actuated all of the brakes and this let you transfer fluid between the systems through the outboard brakes . This is n't a normal procedure , but one maintenance would walk you through if you had low fluid in one system and more than you needed in the other to balance the systems if you were out somewhere without the ability to service the hydraulic fluid . The procedure was either Depress and hold toe brakes Set parking brake Release toe brakes Release parking brake or the opposite , depending on which way you wanted to transfer fluid . This works in flight or on the ground ( <URL> )
In the early days of aviation it was simply easier to have the gear fixed . The landing gear adds drag , but so does <URL> and <URL> . Airplanes generally did not fly very fast or far , so the drag from the landing gear ( and that other stuff ) was not a big issue . The first design with retractable gear <URL> . Since then , retractable gear has been a design decision each airplane must make . Retracting the gear into the airplane allows for a cleaner form , which reduces drag . However , this is at the expense of added weight . The retract system , which is usually hydraulic , must be added , and the plane must be designed to make room for the gear somewhere at least mostly inside the aircraft . The plane must also be designed to handle situations where some or all of the gear does not extend properly . For planes that need to be fast and/or efficient , retractable gear is worth the reduction in drag . The additional drag has to be supported by the structure as well . Aircraft with retractable gear will have a maximum speed at which the gear can be extended . Even gear with proper fairings would add significant drag at the speeds airliners fly at . This would be much more critical at supersonic speeds . In these cases the weight of reinforcing the gear could be even higher than the weight of the retracting system . Particularly smaller general aviation planes tend to not have retractable gear . The retract system adds extra weight and complexity ( and therefore cost ) , which will be fairly significant in a small plane . Fixed gear is simple and can be designed to minimize drag as much as possible . These planes do not typically need to fly fast or have large range , so the added drag is less of an issue . Other small planes do have retractable gear , which will allow for greater speed and range . The PA-32 type shown in <URL> was later produced in a <URL> as well .
Like everything in aviation its a trade off of a few factors . Efficiency : A non-running engine is pretty quiet but that 's of little use to a pilot who needs thrust to actually go anywhere . Now you can have lots of sound suppression in an engine and alter the airflow and what not but in the end of the day jets work on Newton 's third law so you still need to throw a hot mass out the back . Any attempt to baffle this will take a toll on efficiency . ( Side note , car exhausts have a similar effect on car engines these days ) . Weight : The generally accepted way to reduce noise is to insulate against it . What you are really doing is adding material to absorb the mechanical energy that is the sound wave and dissipate it . Generally this is <URL> of some kind ( there is a variety of styles ) . But like anything this takes a toll on weight and will reduce what you can carry . Cost : Insulation does wear out and break down over time ( its usually some kind of foam ) , so the more you have the more you need to replace . Also of importance is the fact that most of it gets removed during check to inspect the airframe so having a lot of insulation will add to your down time during checks ( this costs the airline money in terms of hours ) . If you take a look at some custom-built private planes you will see some of the things they can do in terms of added noise reduction and what those implementations look like . On the other hand <URL> is becoming a cheaper and more efficient technology in headphones which makes a case for not needing to improve insulation ( it will eventually be cheaper to have a pair of ANR headphones for everyone than maintain a lot of insulation ) . A lot of the GA community has moved to ANR headsets which are much nicer than their traditional counterparts .
AC is easier to produce with the engines , that act as generators . The engines have a rotating shaft that it is easily equipped with magnetic dipoles all around . Then , depending on the instrument , the current is either used directly or , by the use of converters , in DC form as not only it is easier to produce , it is also easier to convert . So electronic devices that uses 12 , 5 or 3V may contain their own voltage converter ( though this is less and less true with modern efficient switch-mode converters ) . If DC conversion was as much efficient as AC conversion , we would n't see high-voltage lines . Last but not least , it 's easier to switch , because the current is null twice per cycle . DC must be switched at full current , which is expensive and weight costly . ( thanks mins )
The 747-300 was somewhat of a cross between -200 and SP . The -300 was almost same as the -200 except for the increased length of the hump . The -300 was never a success and was soon overshadowed by the -400 . The 747SP was the result of a requirement for longer range aircraft . Boeing engineers basically <URL> . However , by the time it flew for the first time , commercial air travel had changed ( in no small part due to the high oil prices ) and the model never sold as much as Boeing had hoped . However , when it was observed that there were no adverse effects when the rear of the cockpit lined up with the front of the wing , Boeing introduced the 747-300 with increased length of the hump with little else in terms of major change from -200 . However , just two years after -300 was introduced , Boeing introduced the -400 , which was a significant improvement - it eliminated the flight engineer , increased range among others , while retaining the -300 's hump ( which meant more economy seats ) . 747-400 is the most successful model of the series , with more than 690 orders . Most airlines jumped straight to the -400 , effectively killing the -300 . Actually , the 747-200 production ( with over 390 made ) ended after the -300 version ( of which only 81 were made ) . So they are more of contemporaries . Also , it 'll be a stretch to call that the older 747 versions are still in passenger service . 747-100 is <URL> , <URL> hardly qualify as passenger service and the most successful of these , the 747-200s are also <URL> , if you discount the VC-25s flying around with US President ( which are slated to be replaced by 747-8s ) .
Unlike with driving , in aviation the major variable when planning fuel consumption is n't how far you 're traveling but how long you 're traveling : Distance traveled in aircraft is a derived value ( calculated from groundspeed and time - groundspeed also being a derived value affected by many factors including wind ) . A pilot may not readily know their groundspeed ( it can be quite different from airspeed ) , but at a given power setting they know an engine will burn a specific quantity of fuel per unit time , therefore fuel consumption is generally expressed that way ( in gallons per hour or pounds per hour ) , and if they know how long they 've been flying they can reliably estimate how much fuel they 've burned , how much is left in the tanks , and how much longer they can keep flying before running out of fuel . To illustrate why this is superior for flight planning consider the following ( extremely simplified ) flights fitting the following profile : <URL> A 200 nautical mile trip An airspeed of 100 knots A fuel burn of 10 gallons per hour A 25-gallon fuel tank . Scenario 1 : No Wind With no wind the flight will take two hours to complete . The groundspeed is 100 knots . The aircraft will burn 20 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 10 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with 5 gallons of fuel left in the tank - that corresponds to 30 minutes , which is the minimum legal reserve for day VFR flight per FAA regulations . Scenario 2 : 25 Knot Headwind With a 25 knot headwind the flight will take about 2:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 75 knots . The aircraft will burn 27 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 7.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we run out of fuel 2:30 into the flight . Running out of fuel is generally considered to be a Bad Thing : The passengers complain , and the FAA asks a lot of uncomfortable questions . Scenario 3 : 25 Knot Tailwind With a 25 knot tailwind the flight will take about 1:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 125 knots . The aircraft will burn 16 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 12.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with almost an hour of fuel still in the tank - a very comfortable reserve . On longer flights , and in slower aircraft , the effects of wind can be extremely pronounced , and a 5 or 10 knot difference from the forecast winds can mean the difference between arriving at your destination or having to add a fuel stop .
Considering that ( one of ) the main reason ( s ) for introduction of larger Beluga XL is to meet the demands of the A350 XWB production , it does n't make sense to have a modified A350 for the next transporter : Airbus would prefer to sell A350s to customers than to modify them for internal use . A380 is not supported by airports near most of the Airbus production centers - defeating the very purpose of having the Beluga XL fleet . In the end , it boils down to which aircraft can satisfy two requirements - payload and runway capability at Broughton . From <URL> : Airbus wants an aircraft which not only meets high payload capabilities - including capacity to carry two fully-fitted A350 wings - but can operate within airfield landing limitations at its UK wing facility at Broughton , to which it will deliver A350 wing covers . Broughton 's declared available landing distance for the shorter runway 04 approach is 1,663 m ( 5,460 ft ) . Airbus considers this restriction to be too tight for a modified A330-300 or A340-500 , while the payload requirement is too high for an A300-600 . It believes an A330-200 variant - tentatively designated the A330-200XL - could potentially cope with the landing criteria at projected weights of around 135t , and is the most promising option . Boeing Dreamlifter , on the other hand , is purpose built for B787 transport - wings and fuselage , while the Beluga transports only the wings . The distances involved in the B787 production ( compared to the only European production centers of A350 XWB ) means that Airbus can afford to transport only the wings , rather than fuselages too .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
You 'll find your answer if you take a look at the form of a pitot tube or other kinds of ducts where pitot ( or total ) pressure is taken and compare it to the parts of the aerofoil where ice is prone to accumulate . Ice will most likely form on the leading edge of thin surfaces in the airstream but not on the side of the fuselage . If ice would built up there you will probably have some more urgent problems then switching to your alternate static source ;)
You are absolutely correct , <URL> . But tradition and a subjective feeling of being treated better means that people will prefer to be seated facing forward . Some even claim that they develop motion sickness when sitting backwards . This can indeed be the case for some people in trains with their big windows , but much less so in aircraft . Just note which seats will be occupied last in a train with lounge/mixed seating . In order to cram the highest number of passengers into their planes , the airlines would need to convert all seats to the backward orientation , and you can be sure there will be some passengers who will complain . If passenger safety would be important to them , airlines could already use better seatbelts , like the 5-point-harnesses used in gliders and aerobatics planes , but they all use the minimum lap belt which is mandated and nothing more . Convenience and cost always win over safety . Now I need to mention two caveats : If passengers should be seated backwards , the industry needs to develop new seats . It will not be helpful to turn existing seats around - they would collapse at much lower loads than what a backward-sitting human can sustain . However , to fully support these higher loads , seats will be more heavy and possibly even the floor structure needs to be beefed up . Backward-facing seating will only help in the fraction of cases where deceleration loads are too high for a forward-facing person , but low enough to make the crash survivable . If the plane flies into a mountain or ditches and sinks before people get out , the better seating will not help . Some military transports have backward-facing seats . In some crashes , the survivability rate was seven times higher in those than in forward-facing seats . Early air travel also used mixed seating , e.g. on the Zeppelins or the <URL> . One airline to use mixed seating was Southwest Airlines with their <URL> , and business jets have mixed seating as standard . Thanks to @reirab for pointing out that United Business class also has some backward-facing seats . Cabin of the Do-X . No seatbelts , seats not bolted to the floor . These were the days ... Cabin of the Dassault Falcon 7X business jet .
The one that decided to ground the fleet was Qantas . Qantas was having a new airplane model and potentially made a trade-off between having a not known design flaw and keep flying and the risk . At that time the A380 entered in service three years before and around 20 aircraft were in service with a mix of engines . Today , there are 200 A/C in service for 10 years . The possibility of having a design flaw or an unknown problem is really low . It was not a airworthiness directive as the directive was created <URL> in January 2011 . Qantas starting to get back in service the airplanes on 27th November ( incident was on 4th Novemeber )
There is no accepted technical term called fast jet . However , this seems to be used in media and other uses , especially in the case of British jets . Most of them seem to refer high speed aircraft ( BAE hawk , for example ) . <URL> , for example repeatedly refers to fast jets : BAE Systems provides cutting-edge electronic avionics systems ... Its display systems offer fast-jet pilots a real-world view ... AMPA is used extensively across the RAF from fast jets and helicopters ... ( A ) pilot following the Fast Jet training system will use AMPA at every stage of their training involving Tucano , Hawk T1 and Hawk T2 aircraft before moving on ... The British seem to use it regularly , for example <URL> : BAE Systems ... said , " ... increase the Indian Air Force 's fast jet training capacity and establish a similar fast jet training solution for the Indian Navy . The Hawk AJT fast jet training solution enables an Air Force or Navy ... My guess is that the usage of term is mostly found in UK ( the book also appears to be from there ) . There does n't seem to be any consistency in usage . While the examples above include the Hawk among others , <URL> ( UK again ) refers to Dassault Rafale as a fast jet : French Navy Fast Jet Duo set to thrill Air Day Crowds ... To reiterate , I 'm not aware of any precise technical term called ' fast jet ' and this seems to be ( mostly ) a British thing .
I do n't think many airline crew actually bother to log the day/night breakdown . At my airline we have different pay rates for day and night flying , so we do care , but the company " Electronic Logbook " tracks the day/night breakdown for us . The system is not 100 % accurate and we sometimes get paid more or less day or night then we actually fly in , but it tends to average out over the year . In the summer , polar routes can be as much as 15 hour flights of daylight , while the same route in the winter can be 15 hours of night flying . On some flights we will see the sun set , and then rise , and set again , as we chase the sun and our route changes from northwest bound to southwest bound . <URL> Here are some samples of summer/winter , day/night Toronto to Hong Kong flying in my eLog : <URL> <URL>
I attended the ACS webinar on June 25th . This is the response from Christopher Morris at the FAA . You can also read the <URL> on the FAA website . If the pilot recognizes the stall warning and promptly makes an appropriate correction or airspeed adjustment , a momentary activation of the stall warning horn does not constitute unsatisfactory performance on the maneuver . As with other standards , the problem would arise from continual deviation from the standard , lack of correction , and/or lack of acknowledgment . The goal is to ensure that the applicant does not perform the maneuver with the stall warning activated . The certification standard in 23.207 states for airplane certification testing , the stall warning must " begin at a speed exceeding the stalling speed by a margin of not less than 5 knots and must continue until the stall occurs . " This is the primary reason the suggested range above stall speed has moved from " 3-5 knots " to " 5-10 knots without stall warning activation . " The certification standard for the stall warning does play a role in the airspeed selection for the maneuver , and stall warning activation will vary from one airplane to the next , so it is important for the applicant to select an airspeed where the stall warning should not activate except on a momentary basis ( e.g. , due to turbulence ) . The PTS standard for maneuvering during slow flight was for the applicant to establish and maintain " an airspeed at which any further increase in angle of attack , increase in load factor , or reduction in power , would result in an immediate stall . " The current version of the Airplane Flying Handbook says slow flight should be performed at " the slowest airspeed at which the airplane is capable of maintaining controlled flight without indications of a stall -- usually 3 to 5 knots above stalling speed . " The guidance has always intended for there not to be a stall warning , and that is consistent with slow flight guidance published in AC 120-111 . However , the 3-5 knot range given does not pair well with the part 23 requirement for a stall warning ( § 23.207 ) . It is not practical to maneuver in that airspeed range and not have the stall warning , which is an indication of a stall . The standard in the PTS also implies being right above the critical AOA , which means the stall warning would be activated . This result does not align with the guidance , or with what the FAA advocates . Specifically , the FAA does not advocate intentional disregard for a stall warning while maneuvering . The purpose of teaching slow flight is to ensure that the pilot understands how the airplane responds with less airflow over the flight control surfaces . Since airplanes are operated at low airspeeds and high angles of attack during the takeoff/departure and approach/landing phases of flight , it is essential for pilots to learn the airplane cues and how to operate the airplane in this state . Regardless of airplane type , a pilot does not need to be just below the critical AOA to experience the desired characteristics and achieve the slow flight objectives . These objectives can be accomplished without deliberately activing the stall warning through flight just below the critical AOA . We want to influence the behavior and practices the pilot will follow outside the training environment . Therefore , with the exception of performing a full stall maneuver , a pilot should always perform the stall recovery procedure when the stall warning is activated . With respect to guidance , the change to AC 61-67 published just prior to the final decision on the AFH wording change , which drove the FAA 's decision to modify this ACS Task element . We are working on another change to ensure the AC will align with the AFH and the ACS and be consistent with AC 120-111 . To further explain these changes , we intend to publish a SAFO that is now in formal coordination . Teaching what an airplane will do at the critical AOA is part of stall training and should be addressed in that context . You allow someone to ' ignore ' the warning in one narrow instance -- as part of stall training . The pilot can still learn what happens at that point -- but as part of stall training and learning the proper recoveries -- not as part of slow flight .
Simplicity . Yes , a servo tab is helpful , but most control surfaces should include a trim tab , so this can double as a servo tab . Total part count should still be lower than that for a stabilizer-elevator combination . But there are other advantages : Easier adjustment of stick forces and little loss of stability with free-floating controls . By hinging the stabilator ( or full-flying tail ) near the quarter point , its control forces can be kept small and tailored with the servo tab . Also , this helps to keep the hinge moment coefficient derivative over angle of attack $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ low . The ratio between it and the derivative over deflection angle $ \ eta $ determines the angle to which the control surface will float , and a small $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ means that the stability with a floating control surface will be close to the stability with a fixed surface . Also , balancing masses are easier to place when the full surface moves .
Yes , short range airliners are designed for up to 90.000 cycles whereas long range airliners can be designed for 40.000 cycles or less . And it is not only the pressurized cabin that needs to be designed for more load cycles , also the landing gear has a lot more work to do . This should become clear when you calculate how many miles/kilometers an airplane will taxi in its life and compare that to the design life of a regular car . Your average short range airliner will easily taxi 5 times more miles in its life than your average car will drive .
All studies which so far showed an advantage for blended-wing bodies ( BWB ) were flawed . The trick mostly used is to compare an existing airliner with a hypothetical BWB which uses equally hypothetical engines of improved efficiency , like what could be expected 20 years into the future . This masks the inefficiency of the BWB concept and makes the combination come out ahead . The BWB will always have more surface area than a comparable conventional design . This translates into more friction drag and more skin mass , which more than offsets any advantage given by the bigger wing root ( which helps to reduce wing spar mass ) . If you like real data , use the <URL> as an early BWB and compare it to its contemporaries . Note that design attempts for an airliner based on the Vulcan ( <URL> ) went nowhere . Why are these BWB studies published ? The author gets more attention when he/she claims a " revolutionary breakthrough " than when he/she is more honest and admits that the concept is a dud . Even Boeing or Airbus like to publish BWB studies , so the public gets the impression they are ahead of the competition . It is sickening to read such academically dishonest studies - you need to spend time to dig to the bottom of the thing and to unravel the plot ; however , once you have done this a few times , they all become alike . But compared to studies made 60 or 80 years ago , where the author factually lists what he did and why it did n't work out ( which is the only way you can learn something ) , those modern studies are a waste of time .
I 'll address these one by one . Should shoulder harnesses be installed , at least to enable passengers to decide to use them or not ? No . They would not serve a significant purpose to improve safety in those seats , and they would add weight and increase maintenance costs for airlines . Keep reading , and this will come to light collectively with my full answer . Why would shoulder harnesses be obligated for flight attendants in their jump seats , but not for passengers ? Those seats are n't lined up in rows , therefore there is no seat in front of them that they would hit and be stopped by . Think of it like a school bus with no seat belts ; the passengers will be stopped by the seat in front of them in a low-force crash , but the bus driver wears a seat belt because there is a steering wheel and windshield in front of them , not a padded seat . How is 4 true ? ( It is superfluous in a crash when compared to the same safety from a lap belt ) Essentially , if there is a crash that will kill people , the shoulder harness will not be the thing that makes a difference . The lap belt is n't really even there for crashes . Extreme turbulence could throw someone up out of a seat ; a lap belt is sufficient to prevent this . A shoulder strap is designed to reduce impact with an object on board a vehicle . A car , we can safely assume , will remain in one piece if it hits a concrete wall . Airplanes do not have structures designed to withstand impacts like that . If a plane disintegrates in a crash , the passenger , packaged along with the lap belt , shoulder strap , and all , will come to impact the external object directly due to structural failure . No seat belt can save you from a total structural failure . Do the safety benefits not outweigh the costs ? Since there really is no safety benefit whatsoever in adding them in the seats that do n't already have them , no . It would be security theater that costs airlines a lot of money . Regarding Pilots Notice I highlighted the low-force impact statement up above in regards to buses . Let 's say there is a low-force impact in a plane such as a taxiing crash that jars everyone on board . The passengers will hit the seats in front of them , not that the seats are even necessary to prevent injury . However the pilots , on the other hand , have a lot of hard instrumentation in front of them such as throttle quadrants , and other things you do n't want accidentally shoved forward during a ground crash .
end question
start question
Is there a button that pilots push to transmit on the radio ?
There is a push to talk ( PTT ) button located at the yoke or sidestick , in small and large aircraft likewise . When the PTT button is not triggered , all communication is routed through the intercom and not broadcasted on the frequency . Once the button is triggered , communication is broadcasted on the active frequency . In the below picture of a glider , it is located on top of the middle stick . On the second picture is it behind the yoke , to be used with the index finger . ( Image Source : <URL> ) ( Image Source : <URL> )
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
Your puck ( GlobalSat BR355 ) runs on 5v and the UART line idles high ( it is pulled high when there is no traffic ) . The first thing you need to do is find the power lines that go to the gps puck -- connect wires to these lines ( 5v and gnd ) and run them to the spot where you want the button/led . Then make this circuit : <URL> The value for R1 should be 150 ohms ( which will yield under 20ma of current through the LED , assuming your led has a voltage drop of 2.1 v ( which the ones in the link I provided do have ) ) Here is a link to a transistor that will work for Q1 : <URL> Here is a resistor that will work for R1 : <URL> And here is a link to a selection of LEDs you can use ( all with voltage drop of 2.1 v ; Any of these should work ; just choose a color and form factor that works for your application ) : <URL> Here is a link to a selection of pushbuttons that should work -- just choose a form factor you like ( look at the datasheet for the ones with 4 pins -- these are just two pairs of pins ( each pair is connected ) for mounting ease -- two pins can be harder to mount on a circuit board ) : <URL> I personally recommend you use something like this for the button : <URL> For this button here is a picture and a schematic ( as you can see , the pins on either side of the flat side of the button are connected : <URL> <URL> And something like this for the led : <URL> Just wire these components up according to the picture and solder them together -- I 'll leave how to mount the switch and the LED up to you but make sure once you are done you cover all the exposed wire with glue and/or electrical tape and/or liquid electrical tape so they do n't accidentally short out . Also make sure no exposed wires within the circuit are touching where they should n't touch ( especially make sure you separate the pins of the transistor because if they accidentally touch the circuit will not work and you may damage your gps receiver -- long story short be careful in your wiring and make sure nothing is touching that should n't .
The only passenger needs that would result in a non-scheduled landing would be a medical emergency or acts/threats of violence of the level that prompt removal of the passenger is needed ( with law enforcement coordination ) . A passenger forgetting his wallet would not result in a diversion . An aircraft deviation to enplane more passengers and proceeding to the scheduled destination would be a highly unusual situation and would not be for passenger needs , it would be for operational needs .
FAA Advisory Circular ( AC ) <URL> covers " standards and recommendations for airport design . " It does not include any restrictions on proximity to bodies of water , but it does make the following recommendation in paragraph 319 ( a ) : It is recommended that the entire RSA and RPZ be accessible to rescue and fire-fighting vehicles such that no part of the RSA or RPZ is more than 330 feet ( 100 m ) from either an all-weather road or a paved operational surface . Where an airport is adjacent to a body of water where access by rescue personnel from airport property is desirable , it is recommended that boat launch ramps with appropriate access roads be provided . The actual FARs ( <URL> ) also do not state a limit . The only reference to bodies of water of any kind is in § 139.325 ( Airport emergency plan ) paragraph ( e ) : The plan required by this section shall contain provisions , to the extent practicable , for the rescue of aircraft accident victims from significant bodies of water or marsh lands adjacent to the airport which are crossed by the approach and departure flight paths of air carriers . A body of water or marsh land is significant if the area exceeds one-quarter square mile and can not be traversed by conventional land rescue vehicles . To the extent practicable , the plan shall provide for rescue vehicles with a combined capacity for handling the maximum number of persons that can be carried on board the largest air carrier aircraft that the airport reasonably can be expected to serve . So , bottom line : there is no limit , but airports are required to take water into due consideration when developing emergency plans , and the FAA looks at each airport and plan on a case-by-case basis during airport certification . As for the rest of the world , I have no authoritative information ; but as others have posted , it certainly seems like the situation is the same , there being numerous examples of airports worldwide built on natural or reclaimed land very close to water .
As one of my instructors was fond of pointing out , there 's pretty much a regulation for everything -- <URL> which is pretty short and to the point as far as government regulations go . The big rules regarding kites/balloons kick in for a kite " over 5 pounds " or a balloon " over 6 feet in diameter / 115 cubic feet of gas capacity " , and are : You have to keep them at least 500 feet below any clouds . You have to keep them less than 500 feet above the ground . You must be at least 5 miles from the boundary of any airport . If your kite/balloon is going to be more than 150 feet above the surface you 're also supposed to coordinate with the closest ATC facility ( who would theoretically put out a NOTAM saying " John Doe is going to be flying a kite/balloon/thingy here , between these hours . Please try not to hit it . " ) There are also some lighting requirements ( if you fly the balloon/kite at night ) , and visibility requirements ( but really , who wants to fly a kite in less than 3 miles visibility ? That seems like pretty lousy kite weather . ) As a favor to your local pilot community ( and to prevent having your wayward kite dragged off by a Cessna on short final ) it 's probably best to observe the three " big rules " above regardless of the size of your kite - a 6-ounce piece of balsa and cellophane can still make a lot of people 's days more interesting if it appears in an unexpected location .
From the <URL> referenced by mongo , Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.425 - 121.475 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.525 - 121.575 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 It seems that these frequencies exist only to be silent space around Guard/121 .5 . No one should transmit on them , and you should probably hear total silence there . I think these are an excellent place to look for quiet space .
When related to a significant point , there is no difference between pass and cross . For altitude/FL only pass is used . The phraselogies used by ATC is described in ICAO <URL> ( Air Traffic Management / PANS-ATM ) , chapter 12 , phraseologies . The document explains the meaning for ATC , therefore to be understood and used by pilots . 12.3.1.2 LEVEL CHANGES , REPORTS AND RATES EXPEDITE CLIMB ( or DESCENT ) [ UNTIL PASSING ( level ) ] AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.1.4 TRANSFER OF CONTROL AND / OR FREQUENCY CHANGE AT ( or OVER ) ( time or place ) [ or WHEN ] [ PASSING/LEAVING/REACHING ( level ) ] CONTACT ( unit call sign ) ( frequency ) 12.3.1.10 ADDITIONAL REPORTS REPORT PASSING ( significant point ) REPORT PASSING ( three digits ) RADIAL ( name of VOR ) VOR 12.3.2.3 MAINTENANCE OF SPECIFIED LEVELS MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL PASSING ( significant point ) MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL ( minutes ) AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.2.4 SPECIFICATION OF CRUISING LEVELS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE , or BELOW ) CROSS ( distance ) MILES , ( GNSS or DME ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( name of DME station ) OR ( distance ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE or BELOW ) ( level ) 12.3.2.8 SEPARATION INSTRUCTIONS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time ) [ OR LATER ( or OR BEFORE ) ] ADVISE IF ABLE TO CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time or level ) 12.3.3.1 DEPARTURE INSTRUCTIONS AFTER REACHING ( or PASSING ) ( level or significant point ) ( instructions ) 12.3.4.12 TURN OR CLIMB INSTRUCTIONS AFTER TAKE-OFF AFTER PASSING ( level ) ( instructions ) 12.4.2.3 PARALLEL APPROACHES YOU HAVE CROSSED THE LOCALIZER ( or GBAS/SBAS/MLS FINAL APPROACH COURSE ) If another wording is used in some country , the differences must be explained in the country AIP , at section GEN 1.7 . For USA ( <URL> ) , Doc 4444 differences are found at GEN 1.7-23 . There are none related .
This is a good question - the comments above answer most of it , but here are some more details : Short answer : yes , they are pretty much standardised . Any modern GA intercom will work with any modern GA radio . Part of the job of the intercom is to tell the radio when to transmit , and to route the correct microphone signal through to it . This is almost always done using a single wire which signals " transmit now " , and a pair of wires for the microphone signal from the headset corresponding to the PTT button that was pushed . On more advanced integrated setups , the signals might be transmitted over a digital bus , but outside of fully integrated setups like the G1000 ( and even then on some models ) , there are always ways to connect standard aircraft radios to the intercom .
Answer based on information found on-line . Related documentation : USAF <URL> C-130T <URL> Lockheed <URL> KC-130 <URL> KC-130J <URL> C-130 <URL> C-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) The KC-130 Hercules is the tanker variant of the C-130 Hercules . The cargo opening consists of a door , and a ramp which can be operated separately . The door is opened by rotating up and inwards the top panel . The ramp is opened by rotating down and outwards the lower panel ( source : <URL> ) KC-130 / C-130 have a <URL> at low speed . From the the C-130 flight manual : Door and loading ramp are operated at a speed of 150 KIAS , with flaps down at 50 % . Same conditions for flying with door and/or loading ramp open . Low speed adjustments : Reducing speed from 300 kt to 150 kt requires nose up trimming . The center of gravity may be adjusted by ballasting fuel in the tanks ( refueling tank and aircraft tanks ) . Opening the ramp will change the aerodynamic shape of the aircraft : The ramp will not be moved past the horizontal position ( only need for full down position is to load cargo on the ground ) . Moves the nose down . Balanced by some trim accordingly . If loads are dropped ( pallets , paratroopers ) or fuel is delivered , the center of gravity will roll back , with a significant nose-down tendency , and trimming will be required . Opening the door will be less of an issue as seen on the image below : The aircraft is near level . Above : KC-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) . Note that the attitude is not so far from level , in spite the door is open .
I ca n't find any explicit FAA banning of Aspartame by the FAA so its most likely hype and pseudo science . <URL> that lists it as a food to eat ( but they state its not their full official position ) . <URL> also states the FAA has no opinion on the matter . However , the FAA does hold the position that you as the pilot in command are responsible , to some extent for your own health ( your chosen airline may also have policy on this ) . If you as the PIC know that you respond poorly to aspartame then you are responsible for avoiding it . <URL> .
Per definition the moment coefficient in the Aerodynamic Centre is independent of the angle of attack . Since the airfoil is symmetrical , the moment around the a.c. , $ M _ { a.c. } $ for an angle of attack $ \ alpha $ will be of equal magnitude and opposite sign at angle of attack $ - \ alpha $ : $ M _ { a.c. } ( \ alpha ) = - M _ { a.c. } ( - \ alpha ) $ The two statements can only hold if $ M _ { a.c. } = 0 $
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
It is important to remember that it is often difficult to diagnose radio malfunction during flight . Therefore it is hard to know whether you have a malfunctioning transmitter , a malfunctioning receiver , or perhaps both . You also have the point-of-failure that is the headset you are using . For this reason it is quite usual to carry a spare headset and the first piece of diagnostics is to swap headsets . Many General aviation aircraft also have a handheld microphone and speakers integrated into the radio stack . Once you 've ascertained that its the actual transmitter and/or receiver that has failed it is common to set the transponder to 7600 . For landing , the relevant detail for the procedure to follow is contained within <URL> : Receiver Inoperative Remain outside class D airspace until the direction of air traffic can be ascertained Notify the tower your type , position , altitude , intention to land and request you are controlled with light signals At 3 -5 miles , advise the tower of your position and join the traffic pattern Watch the tower for light signals Continue to advise of position ( downwind , turning base , etc ) Transmitter inoperative Remain outside class D airspace until the direction of air traffic can be ascertained Monitor the primary local control frequency as depicted on sectional charts for landing or traffic info . Look out for light signals that may be directed to your aircraft During hours of daylight , acknowledge tower transmissions or light signals by rocking your wings At night , acknowledge by blinking landing of navigation lights Transmitter &amp; Receiver inoperative Remain outside class D airspace until the direction of air traffic can be ascertained Maintain visual contact with the tower and acknowledge light signals as above . The light signals used for an aircraft in flight are as follows <URL> : Steady green - Cleared to land Flashing green - Cleared to approach airport , or return to land Steady red - Continue circling , give way to other aircraft Flashing red - Airport unsafe , do not land Alternating red and green - Exercise extreme caution They can be seen in <URL> .
Fuel flow is measured by flow transducers in line with the fuel pipes . And they do a very good job at measuring flow , but unfortunately a fuel leak bypasses them . There is no direct measurement of the leak flow anywhere . The pilots of Air Transat 236 had two indications of the fuel leak : Increased fuel flow through the oil/fuel heat exchanger caused a drop in oil temperature and a corresponding increase in oil pressure . Drained fuel on the leaky side caused a fuel imbalance . It would only be possible to positively identify increased flow as a leak if the leak occurs in between two flow transducers , both mounted in the same fuel line . If the leak occurs after a single transducer , the increased flow gives an indication . Otherwise , the leak flow would have to be observed from available volume , minus legitimately used engine flow . There are fuel tank probes distributed in airliner fuel tanks that give an indication of fuel volume per tank . Picture below shows the six fuel probes in the 747 centre tank ( <URL> ) . <URL> The difficulty here is that leak flow must be derived from volume measurement : unit of flow is $ m ^ 3 $ / sec , the derivative of volume . The wing tanks are long and flat and the probes measure vertical distance , with an accuracy that suffices for Qty indication but lacks the precision of the fuel flow meters which directly measure impulse of the mass flowing through them . Plus they measure mass directly , a more useful entity than volume . Volume per mass changes with fuel temperature , tank levels change with aircraft pitch and roll , the level needs to be derived over time : all of this can only give an indication over the course of hours , when a large amount of fuel has leaked out already , and with a degree of uncertainty that would leave room for doubt . You 're right though , in wondering why there seemed to be no automated way for monitoring discrepancies in fuel quantity . @Waked mentions the estimation messages of the B737NG , which would also only seem to occur after much fuel has been lost aready . The A330 now has an ECAM caution message : FUEL FU/FOB DISCREPANCY , put <URL> the Air Transat incident . Lessons learned from this incident would now be incorporated in the fuel management systems and aircrew procedures . The brilliant glide flight of the pilots demonstrates once again why we need pilots in front of the aeroplane .
Short Answer No , it does not have a back-up , there are some fail-safe components in the system ( see below ) , but in general the system itself is not duplicated . The system , together with a design that avoid ignition sources within the tanks , is just a part that contributes to prevent fuel tanks to ignite . An <URL> for commercial planes have been considered since <URL> and first regulation arrived in may 2006 . Longe Answer The certification CS25 .981 Fuel tank ignition prevention states : ( a ) No ignition source may be present at each point in the fuel tank or fuel tank system where catastrophic failure could occur due to ignition of fuel or vapors . ( c ) Design precautions must be taken to achieve conditions within the fuel tanks which reduce the likelihood of flammable vapors . So the function that should be achieved is prevent tank ignition and there are two fronts two work on , avoid ignition source , and reduce fuel vapors ( similar to the two slices of cheese that rbp was mentioning in the comments ) . So the fuel ignition system is a system designed to avoid fuel vapors . As can be seen in the image below , within the systems there are some redundancies ( e.g. : Dual Flow Shut Off Valve ) , but the system itself is not duplicated . Moreover the system is not on the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) , so the aircraft can still be dispatched with the system inoperative for 10 days . <URL>
The fenestron is a lot heavier than a free tail rotor . This is probably the main disadvantage ; helicopters are more sensitive to extra mass than aircraft . At the time <URL> was produced by joining Aerospatiale 's and MBB 's helicopter divisions in 1992 , a follow-on to the successful <URL> was under development . That was the <URL> . Immediately , development was stopped to implement a fenestron into the finished design in order to give all Eurocopter products a common , distinctive feature . This resulted in major structural changes and a heavier helicopter . The result is now known as the <URL> . From <URL> : The only significant drawback to ducted fans like the Fenestron is that the shroud adds weight that offsets at least some of the improvements in performance . As @Koyovis ' answer points out , the low position of the lateral thrust vector is also a clear disadvantage . See <URL> for more .
The <URL> says : The system uses power from the engines , thus reducing their maximum performance . With the anti-ice system on , the highest altitude at which the overloaded aircraft could fly -- without stalling -- was reduced to 31,900 feet ( 9,700 m ) . The de-icing system on most turbine aircraft ( including MD-82 involved in that accident ) uses bleed air from the engines , that is it extracts some air from behind the ( low pressure stage of the ) compressor . This air is therefore not ejected from the nozzle and not producing thrust , so the thrust is reduced . Or fuel flow rate increased if thrust levers are advanced to compensate , provided the engines are still below their maximum permitted thrust setting . Either way fuel consumption per mile increases . Compressing air increases it 's temperature , so this pressurized air is simply blown through tubes under the critical surfaces . There are other uses of bleed air , mainly pressurization and air-conditioning , but turning on deicing increases it 's consumption significantly . And note that this switching de-icing off and on was part of the accident sequence . It was only because they turned de-icing off that they were able to climb to FL330 in the first place . It is also often not allowed to use de-icing when outside temperature is higher than some value because the heated surfaces could overheat .
<URL> contains recommended crew member procedures and training for combating in-flight fires . It has information about causes , indications and procedures of in-flight fire fighting . According to the AC , Upon discovering a fire , the initial focus should be on aggressively extinguishing the fire with a readily available extinguisher ( which will likely be halon ) , but do not use water if it is believed the fire is of aircraft electrical system origin . Generally , you should consider using the first available extinguisher rather than delaying your firefighting efforts while you locate a particular extinguishing agent for a class A , B , or C fire . Airbus <URL> also says pretty much the same thing : Any fire , no matter how small , may rapidly become out of control , if not dealt with quickly.The first priority will always be to put it out . Coming to the Galaxy Note 7 issue , the AC says , h . What are the Recommended Procedures for Fighting a Lithium Battery Fire ? The following procedures are recommended for fighting a fire in a lithium-type-battery-powered PED . The procedures consist of two phases : extinguishing the fire , and cooling the remaining cells to stop thermal runaway . ( 1 ) Utilize a halon , halon replacement , or water extinguisher to extinguish the fire and prevent its spread to additional flammable materials . ( 2 ) After extinguishing the fire , douse the device with water , an aqueous-based extinguishing agent , or other nonalcoholic liquids to cool the device and prevent additional battery cells from reaching thermal runaway . Though the standard procedures in case of a fire has to be decided by the company , the FAA recommends some procedures to be followed , like : • Be aggressive ; if flames are visible , fight the fire immediately . • Someone must immediately notify the flight crew to describe the fire , smoke , smells , action being taken , etc. . • If flames are not visible , find the base or source of the smoke . • Pull circuit breakers , in applicable area . • Do not reset circuit breakers , unless instructed by flight crew . • Relocate passengers as necessary . • Locate hot spots using the back of your hand . • Don PBE ( not necessarily in this order ) . The flight crew ( who are supposed to don their oxygen masks on indication of smoke/fire ) are supposed to inform the ATC and plan for an emergency landing , if necessary .
Well in regard to " How are these situations resolved ? " you 've already answered your own question in a way : the intended recipient responds with something like <URL> or " Calling center , say again . " ( If they are expecting to hear from a specific aircraft they 'll often respond with " N12345 , say again . " , and if the frequency congestion is really bad controllers may add " All other aircraft standby " ) . As kevin42 pointed out this is very similar to what digital <URL> systems do - they detect a collision ( " Blocked " ) , wait a while , and try their transmission again . As a practical matter , two-way voice communication over the radio is possible , but difficult : for example a discrete " uplink " and " downlink " frequency as you have with some radio systems would be impractical in the sort of mesh topology that you have with aviation radio ( you could implement it for a single air-to-ground pair trivially , but aviation radios are also used for air-to-air communication , and it 's important that pilots hear what 's going on as this enables them to build a mental picture of the airspace , as well as ensure that they 're not blocking other pilot 's transmissions ) . Regarding analog-vs-digital , the traditional AM radio used in aircraft has one major advantage over its digital counterparts : when two digital signals overlap the result is garbage -- you ca n't recover any of the information . When two analog AM signals overlap you get heterodyning ( the two signals mix , and your receiver pipes that mix into your ears ) . The resulting mixed signal sounds AWFUL , there 's an ear-bleeding squeal from the out-of-phase carriers and the voice modulations combine to a garbled mess much of the time , but with experience you can usually pick out one of the communications ( particularly if you 're close to one of the transmitters , where it will overpower the more distant signal ) . The ability to step on a transmission as described above this can be useful : Instructions have been issued over a " stuck mic " before to get other aircraft off the frequency . In a similar vein , if you have an emergency you probably are n't going to listen before you talk - you 're going to key the mic with your mayday and even if the controller misses half of what you 're saying under the heterodyne noise they 'll know there 's an emergency when they hear the other half of your transmission and tell everyone else to standby while they talk to you . In both of those situations a digital system implementing CSMA/CD would detect that the frequency was in use and not transmit ( and if were a digital system and transmitted anyway both digital signals would be garbled and unusable ) .
end question
start question
Why does the EGT gauge in 172s have no numbers on it ?
The simple EGT gauges do not have numerical scales because you never lean to a temperature . You find the peak temperature , set the movable red needle to that temperature , and then lean to x degrees lean ( or enrichen to x degrees ) of peak temperature . Set the peak temperature at full throttle , full rich at a sea level airport . This system eliminates the concerns of calibration : Is the gauge calibrated , did the mechanic install the probe in exactly the right spot , etc. etc. .
With larger wings comes more drag . True , because the drag is a function of the wing area A : $ $ D = C_D \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho \ cdot V ^ 2 \ cdot A $ $ You need a certain wing area to support the weight of the aircraft . Now the question is : over how many wings will we distribute this wing area ? For over 80 years , the answer has been : one wing ( the two wing halves make up one wing ) . The classical biplane is a thing of the past , however there have been incredibly clever aircraft builders who have looked at the long coupled canard configuration . This one really makes a lot of sense : <URL> Image <URL> So to answer your question : there are aircraft with two wings . It 's just that people do n't buy them , and go for boring old Cessna 's instead .
The instrument shows the gas generator rpm in the engine . It think you are referring to this scene ( screenshot from youtube ) : <URL> The Bell 412 in the movie uses a pair of Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada PT6T-3BE Twin-Pac turboshafts , which are free turbine engines . The turboshafts used in helicopters consist of , Compressor Combustion chamber turbine and other components . The gas producer ( from which ' GAS PROD ' came ) forms part of the turbine . The gas generator forms the first stage that runs the compressor and makes the engine self sustaining . It also runs the oil and fuel pumps . As it is a free turbine , the gas generator stage is not mechanically connected to the next ( power turbine ) stage . From <URL> : The turbine section consists of a series of turbine wheels that are used to drive the compressor section and the rotor system . The first stage , which is usually referred to as the gas producer or N1 may consist of one or more turbine wheels . This stage drives the components necessary to complete the turbine cycle making the engine self-sustaining . Common components driven by the N1 stage are the compressor , oil pump , and fuel pump . The second stage , which may also consist of one or more wheels , is dedicated to driving the main rotor system and accessories from the engine gearbox . This is referred to as the power turbine ( N2 or Nr ) . In some cases , NG is used in place of N1 . The gas generator speed is measured in the PT6 engines using a tachometer-generator mounted on the engine . From <URL> : The tachometer-generator produces an electric current which is used in conjunction with a tachometer to indicate gas generator RPM . The tachometer-generator drive and mount pad are located at the 5 o’clock position on the accessory gearbox and is driven form the internal scavenge pump .
The 'N' numbers you 're referring to are <URL> . The FARs ( Federal Aviation Regulations ) specifically mention registration as not being required for military aircraft : <URL> ( b ) No person may operate an aircraft that is eligible for registration under 49 U.S.C. 44101-44104 , unless the aircraft -- ( 1 ) Has been registered by its owner ; ( 2 ) Is carrying aboard the temporary authorization required by § 47.31 ( c ) ; or ( 3 ) Is an aircraft of the Armed Forces The FAA issues these registrations in accordance with its responsibilities under the <URL> , which required ( in <URL> ) that : Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear its appropriate nationality and registration marks . As per the above-cited 14 CFR 47.3 , though , the U.S. specifically requires that all eligible aircraft have registrations unless it 's either a military aircraft or it has temporary authorization under 14 CFR 47.31 ( c ) .
How Boeing 747 is called Jumbo Jet ? The <URL> is the world 's first wide-body aircraft . For a long time , it was the world 's largest passenger aircraft1 . When Boeing was designing the 747 in mid-1960s , it expected that in the near future <URL> would become the norm . Hence , there would not be a need for the passenger version of 747 . Because of this , 747s were designed in a way that they can be easily converted into freighters . <URL> , being one of the first customers of 747 , wanted to fit two rows of cargo containers2 , instead of one . This meant that the fuselage had to be at least 16 feet wide , wider than any airliner at that time . This would have worked fine for cargo , but it would make loading and unloading passengers very time-consuming . To accommodate this , Boeing engineers designed two aisles , which ran parallel through the length of the aircraft , hence the term <URL> was coined . When the press noticed the huge size , they described it with the catchy term Jumbo Jet . It is also known as Queen of the Skies but that is not common . Do other airplanes have nicknames ? Airbus A380 dubbed as superjumbo by media . The only A380 sold as a business jet is called <URL> . Although there are n't official nicknames of airplanes , almost all airplanes earned <URL> . <URL> contains nicknames for mostly military aircraft . 1 <URL> as world 's largest passenger airplane in 2007 . 2 At that time , cargo containers were cubes that measured 8 feet ( 2.44 m ) per side .
General rule here : the engine will remain at its last power setting should the FADECs lose comms with the flight deck controls ( in your A380 case ) or the thrust lever cables come unhooked ( in the case of an older aircraft with mechanical cable-and-pulley controls ) . However , the fire handle will kill the engine even if the main controls fail -- it operates the firewall fuel and hydraulic shutoff valves . In QF32 , this did n't happen because the cable for the # 1 engine fire handle itself was damaged by shrapnel entering the wing .
The code for Markham Airport , CNU8 , is a Transport Canada identifier . The codes for the other airports are <URL> . ICAO airport codes always consist of 4 letters . Markham Airport does not have an ICAO airport code .
Chinese superstition . The same reason Airbus went with the 380 number when 350 would have been next in line . The Chinese sign for 8 looks like an up arrow ( 八 ) and 8 is the lucky number in Chinese . Similarly , 4 ( 四 ) is considered unlucky because the word for it ( sì ) sounds similar to the Mandarin word for death ( sĭ ) . Boeing and Airbus management court their prospective Chinese customers wherever they can because they expect their biggest sales in the next decade from that part of the world . Originally , Boeing used three-digit numbers for their subtypes , and the last two digits <URL> . <URL> 's number was 21 , for example , so a Boeing 707-100 made to Pan Am specs was a 707-121 .
Yes , such system exists , for example the <URL> . * It was <URL> and installed as an option on the Boeing 707-300 freight aircraft . Other aircraft that had a similar ( optional ) system include the L1011 and Boeing 747 . It is mostly found on freight aircraft because they have a less predictable load distribution ( centre of gravity ) than passenger aircraft . The reason they are not common is that they add cost in the form of installation , weight and maintenance . While quite accurate when in good condition , the reliability of the weighing systems used to be poor , which probably contributed to the fact they never became wide spread . Because crew are commonly operating on several aircraft types these days that have take-off weights of more than 100 metric tonne difference ( e.g. A330 and A340 , B747-400 and B747-8 ) there is an increase in take-off weight confusion related incidents . This , combined with the fact that systems are becoming more reliable , makes it likely that these weighing systems will be used more in the future . * An <URL> in a 1987 Flight issue .
Depending on certain factors , you can accept a SID clearance knowing that you can not make the required climb gradient with one engine inoperative ( OEI ) . The FAA <URL> 5-2-8 ODP and SIDs states this : ODPs and SIDs assume normal aircraft performance , and that all engines are operating ( AEO ) . Development of contingency procedures , required to cover the case of an engine failure or other emergency in flight that may occur after liftoff , is the responsibility of the operator . This answer begs another question and what are some contingency procedures you can consider when accepting a SID when the required climb gradient is not possible with OEI procedures ? The FAA lists two possible places for this information : <URL> <URL> Chapter 1 . AC 120-91 talks about how runway analysis is used to comply with Part 121 / 135 obstacle climb requirement . Instrument Procedures Handbook provides additional information on how OEI takeoff obstacle clearance requirements are different than TERPS requirements . Besides using runway analysis , there is n't a lot of additional information on contingency procedures . Here are my contingency procedures in the preferred order Runway Analysis - Let an engineer figure out the maximum weight to takeoff and be able to climb above the obstacles Radar vectors - Once ATC issues the words " Turn left / right heading xxx ° " they are equally responsible for terrain clearance See and avoid the terrain ( VMC only ) - If we can see the obstacles ... hopefully we can miss them . Of course , mountains do n't care if you can see them or not . They do n't move . Obstacle Departure Procedures ( ODP ) using OEI calculations . SID using OEI calculations . It would be great if others come up with a different set . I would love to see them . I will typically work through this listing and if I am taking off from an airport without radar services in IMC where I do not have runway analysis , I need to be able to make the ODP or the SID on OEI performance .
A lot of consideration is placed on the airframe ( which has to hold for 20 + years ) rather than the passengers . One of the primary reasons is to slow corrosion of the aluminium airframe . This is also why the Boeing 787 is a lot more humid - corrosion is no longer an issue in a composite fuselage ( or a lot less at least ) . <URL> and the <URL> sum it up nicely I think : the greatest issue lies with the cold fuselage skin interacting with moist air , which will condensate and speed up the rate of corrosion . But condensation in the gap between cabin and hull can be lethal . This gap contains much of an aircraft 's wiring , and water can damage that wiring 's insulation . Such a problem is thought to have contributed to the loss of a Swissair DC-11 off the Atlantic coast of America a few years ago . Too much condensation causes other difficulties , as well . There have been cases when ice has built up inside the tailplanes of aircraft , causing their rudders to freeze and thus preventing their pilots from steering them . An aircraft such as a Boeing 747-400 can accumulate as much as 700kg of condensation before it reaches equilibrium . Even though that is only about 0.17 % of the 400 tonnes such an aircraft weighs fully laden , it is enough to cause problems for the pilot when he tries to trim the balance of the aircraft . And 700kg is about the weight of nine men . So the aircraft is carrying the equivalent of at least nine non-fare-paying passengers , in an industry where every extra kilogram affects fuel consumption and profit margins .
It looks to me like the <URL> you quoted is unreliable or at least not current , e.g. it gives results for codes QQQ and ZZZ too , but they <URL> . The actual IATA code for <URL> seems to be MZX . Anyway , there 's no particular reason why <URL> , ZZZ or any other specific combination should be assigned ; they just <URL> . There 's also no reason why IATA should assign a code to every airport : the US alone <URL> but only 500 or so have air carrier service .
All parts of an airliner 's horizontal surface move , not just the rear part . The rear part , called an elevator , can move much faster and is for maneuvering . The forward part , called a ( trimmable ) stabilizer , is for trimming and moves slowly . It is moved in response to changes in loading , speed or flap settings and positions the tail surface such that only small continuous elevator deflections are needed . It does n't need to move fast - high load factors would upset the passengers and overload the structure . <URL> A330 port tailplane root ( picture <URL> ) . Note the markings which show the range of incidence angles covered by the trimmable stabilizer . Benefits of a stabilizer-elevator configuration : Camber : The elevator deflection changes the camber of the airfoil of the tail surface and makes the production of the intended lift change more efficient . If the elevator deflection is supposed to create a downforce , negative camber is produced and vice versa . This reduces the drag which is created in order to maneuver the aircraft . Lower control forces : By moving a smaller surface , less hydraulics power , and on small aircraft , less muscle power is needed for the same moment change than with a full-flying tail or all-moving surface . Makes sense , right ? Better tailoring of the hinge moment derivatives : Two effects are important for getting the control forces right : The change in hinge moment over deflection angle ( $ c _ { r \ eta } $ ) , and the change in hinge moment over angle of attack ( $ c _ { r \ alpha } $ ) . With tabs , the right elevator hinge position , nose shape and control horns , both can be tailored individually , while a full-flying tail or all-moving surface will give the designer less freedom to manipulate both independently . Note that full-flying tails only emerged with hydraulic controls , because only those systems can manage the control forces of all-moving control surfaces at high speed . <URL> Horn balance and overhang balance on control surfaces ( picture <URL> ) Benefits of a full-flying tail surface By avoiding a contour break due to a flap deflection , all-moving control surfaces can avoid the shocks which would otherwise occur at high subsonic speed . This is their main benefit for combat aircraft . At supersonic speed , the uncambered surface will produce less drag , so for supersonic speed the all-moving control surface is more efficient . By moving all of the tail surface at high speed , an all-moving control surface will produce the highest rate of moment change over time possible . To produce also the highest sustained moment change , however , it needs to be larger than a comparable stabilizer-elevator combination because it forfeits the benefits of variable camber . The all-moving control surface has no gaps which could add radar reflections , allowing for a more stealthy design . Lower mechanical complexity . This is somewhat offset by the need for much beefier hydraulics .
Judging from <URL> , it does not have an automatic prop sync . When throttles are advanced you can hear the harmonic beat of the twin propeller blades , and during the climb the instructor seems to manually set the levers to reduce the harmonic set the correct manifold pressure . He may or may not have an indicator to help him , but judging from the sound effects there is no automatic synching taking place . And here is an old <URL> , on how to fly the aircraft . Nothing on synchronising the propellers . That beautiful engine sound is not produced by a turbine by the way .
New airliners without a buyer will be handled on a case-by-case basis . Of course manufacturers prefer to not be in such a situation , and there is no standard system for handling this . However , there are some typical ways that this is handled . One option it to <URL> . This is the same ( and pretty much only ) option that is used for aircraft without engines . This has the advantage of being easier to work in and deliver , but will of course take up valuable space . To save space at the factory , the aircraft can be moved somewhere else . <URL> , but <URL> . <URL> , <URL> . Of course the manufacturer has spent money assembling the aircraft , and it is costing money to have it sit somewhere , so they will be eager to cut their loss as much as possible . These aircraft will probably be offered at a significant discount compared to placing a new order . However , buyers may prefer to wait and receive an aircraft straight from the factory , rather than one that has been sitting in storage for a while . There may also be issues with customized options applied for an original buyer that would need to be refurbished or accepted by a new buyer . <URL> and <URL> is not unheard of and is part of the business of making aircraft . It may be that no one is willing to buy an aircraft , or the aircraft would otherwise not be economical to put in service . The aircraft may in this case be sent to a museum , as with the RJX . In a similar case , the first three 787 aircraft were not deemed economical to put into commercial service after the test program , and <URL> . The last resort would be to <URL> . This is certainly disappointing for a new aircraft , but in some cases it is the only option left to regain any value .
The aircraft weight needs to be 70 kg or less . FlyNano mentioned this on their <URL> ( my paraphrasing ) : Do I need a pilot 's license to operate FlyNano ? According to the <URL> ... FlyNano is below the necessary weight of 70kg ... In Finland for example no classification , no aviation license or medical certification are needed . But skill is needed . Nevertheless a good understanding of water plane operation , rules and aviation safety is requested . ... I found that <URL> . But regardless , and emphasized by FlyNano also , pilot skills are required .
The short answer is to use color in some way . I could n't find anything very detailed on this : there 's plenty of general checklist information out there from the FAA , NASA , universities and so on , but nothing that goes into specific details on how to use colors , fonts or the other things that you mentioned . There is <URL> called The Use and Design of Flightcrew Checklists and Manuals that was part of the response to the <URL> . Unfortunately it 's from 1991 so some content is already dated , and it 's aimed at part 121 and 135 operators with multiple crew members , but it 's an interesting report anyway . Their main recommendation on memory items was simply to reduce them as much as possible because memory is very unreliable compared to checklists , but again that 's in the context of multi-member crews . As for design , layout , formatting etc. , they did make some specific recommendations ( see section 4.1 and Appendix A ) and the most applicable one to your question seems to be the use of color-coding . They strongly recommended the use of color as a general method , e.g. headings in yellow for " abnormal " items and in red for " emergency " items . Interestingly , the report says that at that time ( 1991 ) airlines resisted using color because of the costs of printing , but today it <URL> to highlight critical checklists and items . However , each checklist provider has their own approach to coloring headers , text , blocks or even entire pages . I do n't think there 's any such thing as a standard ' style guide ' for checklists , so if you 're making your own then you can obviously do whatever you want that works for you . But the 1991 report noted that most checklist problems were caused by missing or inaccurate items , so make sure you get the content right before you break out your paintbrushes :-)
<URL> Right behind the fan you can see the stators . <URL> Here they are from behind . <URL> Here is the fan removed , with the ( 1 ) fan stators ( outlet guide vanes ) , and ( 2 ) inlet guide vanes for the compressor ( booster ) . Just like I <URL> : On the funny side , here 's a <URL> , absolutely bonkers <URL> . Do n't trust illustrations . <URL> ( CFM56-5A manual ) You can watch the fan removal here : <URL> Below is the stator assembly for the GE90 : <URL> Image sources : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
For conventional VORs , Positive sensing occurs when the headng currently being flown is on the top half of the VOR . Reverse sensing occurs when the current heading is on the bottom half of the VOR . <URL> Used wth permission from <URL> Taking this theory to the HSI where the currently flown heading is always on the top half and you can never have reverse sensing . It is also proper technique to set in the front course when flying a LOC/BC approach . This will negate the effects of reverse sensing for HSIs . To get all my students into the habit of setting in the front course for HSIs I teach to always set in the front course even when flying on conventional instruments . I do n't believe in positive and reverse sensing anymore . A discussion for another day . <URL>
The two aircraft in question were actually only one . Apparently it was a glitch in the FR24 system . It was an Embraer ERJ-190AR , registration number N949UW on flight AA1678 from ATL to LGA . <URL> <URL> <URL> This also pretty much validates sweber 's assertion that the numbers are internal FR24 codes , because the mode-S ID is AD306E .
end question
start question
What should a pilot do when flying in the vicinity of parachute jumpers ?
Qualification : I worked at a busy drop zone for 10 years . Just announce yourself on the airfield frequency about 5-10 minutes out and they 'll tell you what 's going on , including which runway is active and how high they are jumping from - standard altitudes are 3000ft and 12,000 ft AGL . At our place it was really simple : left-hand for 34 , right-hand for 16 . We landed everyone on the east side , and if we are dropping at 3000 all day you can just pop up to 4000 and be completely out of the way . Under no circumstances make a cross-field pass as that 's usually right in the middle of everyone else 's landing pattern , and we do n't carry radios . If you are just passing by a 2km buffer is lots - no one is likely to be in the air that far away . No reply usually means nothing in the air .
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
Some useful texts are <URL> by Cockrell , <URL> by Lingard , and the Parachute Recovery Systems Design Manual by Knacke . The Lingard and Cockrell papers both have extensive references that are worth pursuing . The Knacke manual is , as far as I know , only available in hardcopy . It seems that the designers of modern sport ram-air parachutes and paragliders are more concerned with protecting trade secrets than they are in publishing research . The paragliding side of the aisle is a bit more willing to share . There is an online <URL> , and there are several open source paraglider CAD software packages available .
According to <URL> , you can request an extension online through the FAA 's <URL> . You also can look up your current status here : <URL> In my case , this was updated about a week before my card arrived in the mail . You can also see what date 's submissions they have processed here : <URL>
To become an Air Force pilot , you have to be a commissioned officer , there are few ways you can do that . First you can go through the Air Force Academy , which is probably the most common . Another way is to be in an ROTC program through your college of choice . The last way I know of is to graduate college and join the Air Force through the officer candidate school ( OCS ) . Regardless of the method you choose , there are certain requirements you must meet : Be a U.S. Citizen Have any 4 year college degree or be within 365 days of attaining it Minimum 2.5 GPA ( although I 'd be surprised if they took you that low ) Under the age of 28 by the board convening date Have a standing height of 64-77 inches and a sitting height of 34-40 inches Have no history of hay fever , asthma , or allergies after the age of 12 Meet USAF weight and physical conditioning requirements Normal color vision Meet refraction , accommodation , and astigmatism requirements Distance vision can not exceed 20/20 uncorrected or must be corrected to 20/20 or better Near vision can not exceed 20/40 uncorrected or must be corrected to 20/20 or better If you 've met those requirements you can then go through the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test ( AFOQT ) and through Military Entrance Processing Station ( MEPS ) for your intellectual and physical evaluation . If you pass those tests , you may be selected for the Officer Candidate School ( if not joining through ROTC or Academy ) . After that you go into undergraduate pilot training ( UPT ) where you spend a year learning to fly through academic and hands-on training . Depending on how you perform at UPT you will receive a seat assignment . Higher scores are selected for fighter training while lower scores move towards transport aircraft . You can voice your opinion on what you want to fly , but ultimately the decision is driven by the needs of the Air Force at the time you graduate UPT . After UPT , you will move to Advanced Flight Training ( AFT ) which is between 6 months and a year long depending on the aircraft you 've been assigned . After AFT you 'll be assigned a squadron and location . If you do n't meet height requirements There is a waiver process , although getting a waiver for height requirements is extremely rare ( if not completely unheard of ) . The issue is that the ejection systems are designed for a specific height . This process starts by appealing a medical review board which you are allowed to write a letter to argue your position , however even with a waiver you would probably not be assigned a fighter aircraft . You would probably be assigned an aircraft that does not have an ejection system like transport or mid-air refueling aircraft . As <URL> mentions in the comments , the T6 training aircraft is also equipped with an ejection seat and if you ca n't fly the trainer , you ca n't progress on . The only other alternative to be a US Air Force pilot outside of height requirements is to be an unmanned aircraft pilot . Source 1 : <URL> Source 2 : <URL>
The purpose of the test flight is for the safety of passengers . For most maintenance , in a not-for-hire aircraft , a private pilot can perform the test flight and determine the aircraft is airworthy , but they must do it without passengers . <URL>
There is n't much non-flying duty for airline pilots . The most important is recurrent training . Pilots are required to attend a refresher course at least annually . This school covers regulations , aircraft systems , and performance . The performance part involves computing weight and balance , airfield/weather restrictions , fuel required , etc ( basically the same thing as a Cessna 172 , but with much bigger numbers ) . Additionally , full flight simulators are used to teach and/or evaluate normal and non-normal ( we do n't get emergencies anymore ) procedure . This training is usually concurrent with the groundschool . Pilots are required to maintain their approach charts and aircraft manuals ; changes come frequently . A junior First Officer will spend an eternity ( at least it seems like it ) doing standby duty . This involves being available to take the place of any pilot who calls in sick or is otherwise unavailable . All pilots must pass a flight physical . The implication is that they must maintain themselves in at least minimal health . I hope this at least partially answers your question .
The first and perhaps most important thing to do is NOT turn around . Generally speaking you wo n't have the airspeed/altitude to make a full 180 and return to the field . While it can be done , it 's advised to continue forward and put the plane down as you would in any emergency . Trim for best glide and pick a landing spot ( limited options in this case ) . In some cases with small plane/long runway situations you will be able to execute something like a short field landing with the remaining runway but that is very situationally dependent . When I flew out of KPNE in a Warrior 24 was 7000ft ; if you lost an engine at rotation you had plenty of runway . At DYL where I fly now that 's not really the case . Every airport is different but a good deal of the airports I have flown out of recently have had long fields at either end of the runway giving maybe an extra 1000 ft or so . Airports in populated areas may have roads you can touch down on . You should always consult the POH of the specific aircraft in this case for proper emergency procedures . Specifically to the 152 point , the take off distance is around 1400 ft. full loaded if memory serves . Unless you are training on 2000 ft strips you should have no problem getting the plane back down with remaining runway at all but the shortest of fields . If you are only 10ft up you should be able to put the plane down fast , albeit a bit hard , but fast none the less . For what it 's worth <URL> . Once you have touched down it would be advised to retract your flaps , this will increase the load on the gear ( by reducing your wings ' effectiveness ) and increase brake effectiveness . You should take care to not lock the brakes as well . Side Story : This happened to a buddy of mine in his Archer a bunch of years back ( I 'll try to find the incident report ) . The plane was fresh out of annual and something was not hooked up correctly and shook loose on take off causing the engine to cut out around 100ft or so . There was a corn field dead ahead and he was able to put the plane down smoothly . Thankfully no one was hurt and he simply owed the farmer for the corn he took out on landing & hellip ; .
The whole idea behind the policies and procedures for transferring control of the aircraft between the pilots is so that everybody is always on the same page . Somebody always needs to be flying the aircraft . If I want to hand control over to the other pilot , and he does n't want it/can ' t take it , he would simply explain why not . I have never seen standard operating procedures ( SOP 's ) that explain how to refuse , as simply saying no or unable should let the other pilot know that there is a problem and should be the beginning of a conversation about it . On the other hand , the SOP 's do cover the scenario where the other pilot does n't respond . This is why there is always a challenge/response as part of handing off control . If the other pilot were incapacitated and I did n't realize it , I would say " You have the flight controls " ( or whatever phrase that the SOP 's require ) and wait for his response . If they did n't respond , I would n't just blindly stop flying the airplane and assume that they are . Instead , I could say it again or look over at them to see what was going on and figure out what the problem was while continuing to fly the airplane . Now , to request control from the other pilot ( rather than requesting them to take control ) , I would simply skip the first part and say " I have the flight controls " and they should respond with " You have the flight controls . " Again , it 's a challenge/response situation so that everybody is on the same page . In either case , the captain is the final authority and can always override a request . Airline policies are all very clear that if there is a disagreement , the captain has the " tie breaking " vote .
While the question is fairly broad , looking at 61.51 is a good place to start , as well as 61.57 for some of the currency stuff . But let 's try and work out some of your examples : How should actual instrument be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log actual time if they are monitoring during instrument conditions ? 61.51 ( g ) is what dictates the logging of instrument time : ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . So barring any legal interpretations out there or regulations I 'm missing ( note , I 'm not an instrument rated pilot nor attorney ) , a strict reading of the reg would indicate that only an authorized instructor , conducting instrument flight instruction , can log instrument time when not operating the aircraft . How should landings be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log landings they were not at the controls for ? The short answer is no . Assuming the landings are being logged for currency reasons , 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) states that the person had to be the sole manipulator of the flight controls . 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( i ) says the same thing , but for night currency . How should approaches be logged ? Again , I 'm guessing this would be for instrument currency , at which point 61.57 ( c ) ( 1 ) would be in play . Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device that involves having performed the following - ( i ) Six instrument approaches . ( ii ) Holding procedures and tasks . ( iii ) Intercepting and tracking courses through the use of navigational electronic systems . Again , I 'm not an instrument pilot , but despite " sole manipulator of the controls " verbiage being absent in this particular paragraph , I 'm guessing the FAA would construe it to be the same . Of course , I 'm more than happy to be corrected should I be wrong .
Manufacturers are going to have different opinions of this scenario , but this answer follows the opinion of Cirrus Aircraft in their flight manuals and CCIP syllabi for the SR2X airplanes . First off , your best bet is to obtain a proper weather briefing prior to departure and obtain in-flight weather updates enroute so you can stay out of a thunderstorm in the first place . The CAPS has very specific guidelines for operations as well as a maximum demonstrated safe deployment speed , depending of the model of aircraft . The flight manuals for the SR2X aircraft all state that : . Barring that and you actually enter a thunderstorm which is so severe that it either causes departure from controlled flight or structural failure , there is a clause in the CAPS literature stating that if an accident is imminent , even if the acitivation of the CAPS is outside the demonstrated safe deployment range , it should be utilized and activated nonetheless . The reason has to do with minimizing the amount of energy on impact and even a partially deployed or damaged CAPS is going to slow the aircraft considerably , increasing your chances of survival . Bottom line is that you did something stupid vis a vis a serious lack of judgment where a safe recovery is no longer possible . Whatever happens in the next few minutes is probably going to hurt really bad ; the only thing we can do is make every effort to minimize how badly we are hurt and minimize the chances that we are going to be killed . Even an unsafe CAPS deployment in this situation is better than riding down to impact without .
My experience transitioning from airplanes to helicopters and then to gliders is that I never forget what I 'm flying . I know that sounds obvious , but its no different than the difference between driving a car with automatic transmission and manual , riding a motorcycle which has all the controls in a different place than a car and <URL> , and flying an airplane . I do n't reach for the throttle when I want to slow down in a car , and I do n't turn the wheel in the direction of the turn when I 'm riding a motorcycle . Similarly , when taking off in an airplane , I know I have to add power and pull back a bit to get it off the ground , and in a helicopter I inch the nose forward to gain <URL> . The reason I do n't act/react improperly when flying different aircraft is that it 's all been trained into my muscle memory to do the right thing depending on the circumstances . I do n't think of the horn in a helicopter as a stall horn , just like the buzzer in my alarm clock and smoke alarm are not stall horns . The horn in the heli is a low-rpm horn , and I ease the stick back not forward . Another complication is instrument flight . Although I am an instrument rated airplane pilot , I have a little hood time in a helicopter . I 'm so used to flying pitch and power against the AI that all my instincts under the hood in the heli were completely wrong . Nevertheless , I do n't think I 'll ultimately have any trouble flying instruments well in a heli .
I 'm assuming you 're more interested in the base-or-downwind question rather than the where-is-the-2-mile-base question . Theoretically you 're supposed to fly the published procedure unless told otherwise . In this case the procedure would probably be a standard traffic pattern . Being told to ' report ' means only that , you should report it when you 're there . This is not to be confused with the ( in my experience ) more common instruction " Enter and report a 2 mile base for runway 16 " , in which case you head for the base and not the downwind , and you report it when you get there . To argue ad absurdum , the clearance " Cleared touch and go , after the touch and go , make left traffic , report mid-field downwind " does n't mean you should head straight for the downwind . As always , when in doubt , ask .
Pilot 's breath is not recorded on a flight data recorder , as it is not one of <URL> . However , if a pilot is breathing abnormally , the cockpit voice recorder may easily detect that as the breathing sound is captured by the CVR . A reference to this can be found in the <URL> for Germanwings flight 4U9525 , which states : ... the only sound to come from Lubitz is the sound of him breathing , picked up by the microphone on his headphone set . ... " We could hear human breathing inside the cabin , " said Mr Robin , " and this breathing noise we heard up until the moment of final impact . That means that the co-pilot was alive . Apparently he was breathing normally , so this is not someone having a heart attack , for example .
It has happened <URL> What then happened is that the plane just went on until out of fuel after which it will glide down and skid to a stop ( pilot survived ) . This is assuming there is no obstacle in the way . Another example is the <URL> , a fighter pilot eject and the plane still under power just kept going in a straight line and " landed " in a field . A more deadly example is the <URL> . A mistake in the pressure regulation setting let the plane become unpressurized while climbing to cruise altitude . Both pilots lost consciousness and the plane 's autopilot followed its programmed path following the waypoints and ending up in a holding patter until it ran out of fuel and crashed into the ground . Survival depends on luck with obstacles , whether the plane is properly trimmed and which order the engines flame out in , asymmetric flame-out may result in a spin .
See Chapter 4 of this IATA document for flight crew management of unruly passengers . <URL> In general , they will weed a lot of the negative behavior out on the ground prior to boarding by looking for signs of agitation or aggressiveness towards other passengers or crew . Should a passenger becom unruly while enroute , the following is generally done . Assess the situation and level threat : what 's happening ? who is doing it ? what are their grievances ? Are the legitimate e.g. . A family member having a medical emergency or trivial e.g. Passenger in 22B is drunk and aggressive ? If there are other than legitimate reasons for the disruption , action in taken using the use-of-force continuum : Physical presence - flight crew will be nearby watching subject . Verbal commands - confront subject . Inform them of both the airline 's and Law Enforcemnt 's zero tolerance policy toward their exhibited behavior . Inform them if they continue with this behavior the aircraft will be landed , they will be placed under arrest by LE on the ground , and that penalties for their actions are severe . Try to calm them down as well , but do NOT serve them alcohol , even if requested . If behavior continues , quietly inform the cockpit crew of the disruption and they will make arrangements to divert to nearby airport and inform local airport police and other LE agencies to be ready on the ground . If passenger has become so unruly that they are posing an immediate threat to other passengers around them , physical force can be used to restrain them by the flight crew . This poses a high risk and should only be done as a last resort to regain control of the cabin . If there is a federal Sky Marshall ( s ) on board they can assist the crew here as well . Restraints such as handcuffs and the waist belts may be used to immobilize subject until LE can take over . Divert will become urgent . Electro Muscular Disruptors - flight crews are now being equipped with and trained on the use of the TASER EMD systems to immobilize unruly passengers in order to restrain them . If subject 's actions pose an immediate threat to life and limb of passengers and threaten the safety of the aircraft and crew ( VERY low probability but it is is a contingency ) , deadly force may be used to neutralize the threat . Near as I know some Capt. / FOs do carry firearms as do Sky Marshals . I 'm not aware of guns being issued to flight attendants .
Qualification : I worked at a busy drop zone for 10 years . Just announce yourself on the airfield frequency about 5-10 minutes out and they 'll tell you what 's going on , including which runway is active and how high they are jumping from - standard altitudes are 3000ft and 12,000 ft AGL . At our place it was really simple : left-hand for 34 , right-hand for 16 . We landed everyone on the east side , and if we are dropping at 3000 all day you can just pop up to 4000 and be completely out of the way . Under no circumstances make a cross-field pass as that 's usually right in the middle of everyone else 's landing pattern , and we do n't carry radios . If you are just passing by a 2km buffer is lots - no one is likely to be in the air that far away . No reply usually means nothing in the air .
The overspeed goes off when either the indicated airspeed exceeds that limit or the mach speed exceeds the mach limit . At least that 's how it worked on 747-100/200 aircraft . The 350 knot figure for the max operating airspeed sounds reasonable to me as long as you 're low . From memory that was around the max operating INDICATED airspeed for 747-100/200 aircraft . Remember , though , that indicated airspeed decreases with air density . A 747 cruising above 30,000 feet at around 550 knots TRUE airspeed is going to show an indicated airspeed of less than 300 knots . However , that cruising true airspeed of 550 knots or so is going to be around mach 0.86 . The max mach number for the 747 was 0.92 . If you were at , say , 15,000 feet and speeded up to 350 knots , the mach number would be much less than 0.86 . Take your sim up to 35,000 and see what you get .
Up to a certain speed , which will be in the POH , the greatest power requirement is when hovering out of ground effect . Next is hovering in ground effect and power required in forward flight is the lowest , and decreases up until a point where the increase in parasitic drag starts to increase the power required . See a typical power required curve . <URL> <URL> So it is possible to not have enough power margin to be able to hover OGE but enough to hover IGE . To perform a normal take-off ( ignoring a lot of side effects such as need for pedal ) , come to a normal hover height , about 2-3 feet , then push the cyclic forward . Increase collective smoothly to maintain altitude and allow the aicraft to accelerate which it will , since increasing collective increases power and the rotor thrust now has a forward horizontal component . As significant translational lift kicks in at about 10 kts , a reduction in collective is required to avoid climbing early . You do n't want to be climbing with high pitch , and therefore high drag , if the engine quits . When reaching about 45 kts or so , pull back on the cyclic to adopt a climbing attitude . The aircraft will settle at about 65 kts . To perform a " creeping " take-off , increase collective to become light on the skids . Gentle forward pressure on the cyclic will start a slide on the ground . As translational lift kicks in , apply a little back pressure to lift gently to climb to about 1-2 feet to remain in maximum ground effect and continue to accelerate . Wait until 45 kts is reached , and off you go . During this manouver , the collective is left where it is until established in the climb , aside from small adjustments needed to keep the altitude constant during the creep . I am not sure if it is a certification requirement , but every helicopter I 've flown is capable of safely flying when there is not enough power margin to hover OGE , and most helicopters I have flown are on the weak side ( R22 , B206 , B206L , S300 , Enstrom 280 ) so I guess all helicopters can do so . <URL> and I can see nothing about creeping take-offs . I am reasonably sure that the only limits that apply are for RPM , MAP , torque , N1 , N2 , temperatures etc. . As long as you do n't exceed those and are in accordance with the POH , then it does n't matter how you get airborne . As you can see from the power required curve , the power required for forward flight is a great deal lower than for hover . I 've copied in your comment : I understand that vertical climbing is not hovering , but neither is it " flying " in the same sense that translational flight adds lift . Positive vertical climb out of ground effect with no translation is , I deduce , the hardest thing a helicopter can do . The maximum rate of climb in that attitude seems like something you 'd have charts for , but I do n't even know a term or acronym for it . Because of translational lift , a helicopter requires less power to climb when flying forward than it does to hover , in or out of ground effect . The greatest power requirement is when hovering OGE and increasing the hover height requires more power still so yes , climbing vertically OGE requires more power than any other regime . There is no chart , or term for this that I am aware of simply because you should not do it and the POH will detail restrictions , not least , the " dead mans " or avoid curve . <URL> <URL> The only time you should ever climb vertically ( a " towering " take-off ) is when operating out of a confined area when it would not be possible to get out without clearing the trees , walls or whatever . Some pros do it all the time , e.g. power line inspection/repairs , logging and so on but they accept a risk of operating outside of the limits and are certified and insured appropriately . The avoid curve shows the combinations of height and speed in which test pilots ( i.e. the best ) have demonstrated that a safe landing is possible if the engine quits . You should not fly in the shaded area so you can see ( and that chart is similar for all helicopters ) that a towering take-off should never be used unless there is no alternative , and only then , for the shortest possible time . Coming into a high hover , say 50 feet , or continuing a vertical climb OGE is prohibited by virtue of it being in the shaded area ( s ) of the chart . Helicopters are not always intuitive . Many people are surprised by the fact that climbing needs less power than hovering , and the faster you go ( up until that point where the parasitic power increases dramatically ) , the less power is required . Imagine a car where less power was required to accelerate and go faster !
ATC is , broadly speaking , required to ensure that pilots hear , understand , and acknowledge information that is delivered . The way they do that is via read-backs , and although the AIM mentions a few of the things that are required it 's a good idea to read back anything that 's important ( If you 're not sure , err on the side of " It 's important " ) , with your aircraft callsign ( No callsign ? Does n't count ! ) . What are some important things controllers usually expect you to read back ? Clearances ( headings , vectors , altitudes , transponder codes , and radio frequencies ) . Like the AIM says , mutual verification . Runway assignments , hold short instructions , line-up-and-wait , and takeoff clearances . Taxi routes Instructions , ESPECIALLY runway crossings &amp; hold-short instructions . Wake Turbulence advisories . Traffic point-outs . The magic words here , by the by , are " Negative Contact " and " Traffic In Sight " . I think if you say " Tally Ho ! " you 're required to buy everyone on the frequency a bottle of 30-year-old scotch . Instructions to " Maintain visual separation with " some traffic ATC is handing off collision avoidance responsibility to you as the pilot . They need to hear " Will maintain visual separation with " the traffic in question . They also need you to tell them if you lose visual contact . Airport Point-Outs ( Especially if there are several airports close to each other ) You can also pre-empt this by calling the controller : " Cessna 12345 has Podunk Municipal in sight " , possibly with a bearing and approximate distance . Landing Clearances If you 're in a busy pattern and they give you a sequence ( " Number 3 , cleared to land " ) they want to hear that part too . That altimeter setting you get after a handoff . ( I blame <URL> for getting me into this habit , but it IS a good one unless the frequency is crazy ) This list is by no means exhaustive , but it 's most of the big stuff .
end question
start question
How can I check that the GPS receiver is sending data to the transponder ?
Your puck ( GlobalSat BR355 ) runs on 5v and the UART line idles high ( it is pulled high when there is no traffic ) . The first thing you need to do is find the power lines that go to the gps puck -- connect wires to these lines ( 5v and gnd ) and run them to the spot where you want the button/led . Then make this circuit : <URL> The value for R1 should be 150 ohms ( which will yield under 20ma of current through the LED , assuming your led has a voltage drop of 2.1 v ( which the ones in the link I provided do have ) ) Here is a link to a transistor that will work for Q1 : <URL> Here is a resistor that will work for R1 : <URL> And here is a link to a selection of LEDs you can use ( all with voltage drop of 2.1 v ; Any of these should work ; just choose a color and form factor that works for your application ) : <URL> Here is a link to a selection of pushbuttons that should work -- just choose a form factor you like ( look at the datasheet for the ones with 4 pins -- these are just two pairs of pins ( each pair is connected ) for mounting ease -- two pins can be harder to mount on a circuit board ) : <URL> I personally recommend you use something like this for the button : <URL> For this button here is a picture and a schematic ( as you can see , the pins on either side of the flat side of the button are connected : <URL> <URL> And something like this for the led : <URL> Just wire these components up according to the picture and solder them together -- I 'll leave how to mount the switch and the LED up to you but make sure once you are done you cover all the exposed wire with glue and/or electrical tape and/or liquid electrical tape so they do n't accidentally short out . Also make sure no exposed wires within the circuit are touching where they should n't touch ( especially make sure you separate the pins of the transistor because if they accidentally touch the circuit will not work and you may damage your gps receiver -- long story short be careful in your wiring and make sure nothing is touching that should n't .
Basically , there are two ways . One is easy but imprecise , and the other is hard but more precise . First the easy one : Look at other aircraft and estimate how much winglets affect lift and drag . Make sure to do this at several lift coefficients ; winglets help much more at high lift coefficients . Do n't forget to account for the added mass of the winglets and their added friction over their surface area . Bonus points for estimating losses due to sideslip . The hard way is to do a numerical simulation of the wing . Since you want to know what difference the winglets make , you can focus on a comparison between a regular and a winglet-equipped wing and transfer the effect to the full airplane . For the lift and induced drag effects , you will at least need to divide the wing into panels and simultaneously solve the <URL> equations for bound vortices at the quarter chord of each panel plus the trailing free vortices with control points at the three-quarter point where local flow must be parallel with local wing inclination . Make sure you use a method which does better than to assume that all panels lie in one plane ! I have no experience with Simulink - I guess there are libraries around for vortex lattice or even Euler codes , but if you are free to choose your tools , maybe it is worth to take a look at <URL> . This should work out of the box for your project , and all you need to add is a proper input file .
You ca n't get real-time data from the FAA without an operational need , and organizations which do receive real-time data can not legally re-distribute this data publicly , except to other organizations approved by the FAA . An operational need pretty much means you have to be a flight dispatcher for an airline or commercial operator , not just have an interest in tracking flights . You can get some real-time data from your local area using an ADS-B receiver . See this question for more information : <URL> . If you are okay with the five minute delay , then <URL> you might consider . The direct feed from the FAA is called <URL> and I believe you can apply for the delayed feed , though I 've never gone through the process , and the government 's site is very sparse in information . I would suggest contacting them before attempting to apply if it 's something you 're interested in .
I 'm not an expert in 3D geometry , so I 'll only explain the methods detailed in : <URL> . Two DME ranges and aircraft altitude When the slant distance has been determined using a DME station , the aircraft is on a sphere centered on the station . By interrogating two stations , two intersecting spheres are determined . If the aircraft is located on the line between the two stations ( the baseline ) , then the intersection is a single point , else the intersection is a circle ( pink in the figure below ) . <URL> Taking into account altitude , only two points of the circle ( green in the figure below ) correspond to a possible aircraft location . Ambiguity One of these points is the true position , the other is the " ambiguity " , symmetrical to the true position relative to the baseline ( gray ) . The ambiguity will appear in the method when using $ arcsin $ function , which will give two angles for the same value . There are multiple possibility to eliminate the ambiguity : Monitor the progress of the aircraft and keep the point which motion matches the heading . For example on the top view , if the aircraft flies north , the top point moves north while the bottom point moves south . The latter is indeed a wrong position . A predictive <URL> can detect such anomaly . Use a third DME : The third DME matches a single point . DME accuracy must be taken into account , and the best result will be obtained when the third DME is abeam the aircraft position , between the two first DME stations . Such position maximizes the difference between the two possibilities . Use a VOR collocated with one of the DME . Position determination : Overview of the method The problem of DME/DME/Elevation location boils down to : <URL> Two DME stations U and S : latitudes , longitudes and altitudes are known ( $ \ small L_U , \ lambda_U , h_U $ and $ \ small L_S , \ lambda_S , h_S $ ) Aircraft A : altitude is known ( $ \ small h_A $ ) The slant distances are measured ( $ \ small d _ { UA } $ and $ \ small d _ { SA } $ ) C is Earth center ( Earth radius is $ \ small R_e $ , and P the ground projection of the aircraft position . The manual suggests these steps : Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle We know the altitudes and the slant ranges : It is possible to calculate two geocentric angles $ \ theta _ { SA } $ ( SCA ) and $ \ theta _ { UA } $ ( UCA ) . For each DME $ x $ : $ $ \ theta _ { xA } = arcsin \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ sqrt { \ frac { ( d _ { xA } - h_A + h_x ) ( d _ { xA } + h_A-h_x ) } { ( R_e + h_x ) ( R_e + h_A ) } } \ right ) $ $ Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations We now need to calculate the geocentric angle $ \ theta _ { US } $ between DME stations : $ $ sin ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ theta _ { US } ) = \ sqrt { sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( L_S-L_U ) \ right ) + cos ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) \ right ) } $ $ where $ \ small L_U $ and $ \ small L_S $ are latitudes of U and S and $ \ small \ lambda_U $ and $ \ small \ lambda_S $ are longitudes of U and S. ( You get $ \ small \ theta $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) The method also provides equations for the determination of the azimuth at the extremities of the baseline between U and S , let 's calculate one : $ $ tan ( \ psi _ { S/U } ) = \ frac { cos ( L_S ) sin ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } { sin ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) - cos ( L_S ) sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ psi _ { S/U } $ using $ \ small arctan $ . ) Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed This step check wether the ranges are meaningful , i.e. the two DME range spheres intersect . If they do n't ( and this should never happen ) , there is no solution . The DME spheres are depicted by the geocentric angles $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } $ and $ \ small \ theta _ { SA } $ : If $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } + \ small \ theta _ { SA } < \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then the spheres do n't intersect ( too remote ) If $ \ left | \ small \ theta _ { UA } - \ small \ theta _ { SA } \ right | > \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then spheres are concentric , they do n't intersect . Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA This step allows for the determination of any angle of the triangle USA , we need only one : $ $ cos ( \ beta_U ) = \ frac { cos ( \ theta _ { SA } ) - cos ( \ theta _ { US } ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { sin ( \ theta _ { US } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ beta_U $ using $ \ small arccos $ . ) Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Azimuth angles : If A is south of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } + \ beta_U $ $ If A is north of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } - \ beta_U $ $ Aircraft latitude $ \ small L_A $ : $ $ sin ( L_A ) = sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) + cos ( L_U ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) cos ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) $ $ ( You get $ \ small L_A $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) Aircraft longitude $ \ small \ lambda_A $ : $ $ tan ( \ lambda_A - \ lambda_U ) = \ frac { sin ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { cos ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta
Honestly , very little . First , be clear as to whether you are actually see something failing . If you see flames , or a wing has broken off , then yes , it 's a problem . However , if you see someone doing a slow spiral towards an empty field with the power idling , they 're more likely to be practicing engine out procedures ( something that 's required for all US pilots to practice and demonstrate during their checkride for their certificate ) . In the event that you actually see an impact , fire , off-airport landing and so on , call 911 and give them your location . They 'll send the appropriate crews . Otherwise , if the aircraft is still flying , there 's a strong chance the pilot ( s ) are already talking to ATC about their problem , if it actually exists . There 's nothing you really can or need to do in this case . Quick Anecdote : I 've been told the story of a local police department who gets phone calls virtually every time a citizen lands his small airplane in his private field . Fire/police/medics / etc are summoned , when absolutely nothing bad has happened . This is why you should make an attempt to verify that a problem actually exists before reporting it .
Check out AIM 1-1-9 for localizer information . Basically , the localizer is positioned so to have a course width of 700 ' at the threshold . So full deflection to either side is 350 ' . A CDI has 5 dots on each side , so at the threshold each dot is 70 ' . Near the Middle Marker , one dot means you 're off course by 150 ft. Near the Outer Marker , a one-dot deviation puts you about 500 ft. from the centerline . GPS ( non-WAAS ) approaches have a constant full scale deflection of .3 NM after the final approach fix . AIM 1 − 1 − 17 5 ( e ) ( 5 ) When within 2 NM of the Final Approach Waypoint ( FAWP ) with the approach mode armed , the approach mode will switch to active , which results in RAIM and CDI changing to approach sensitivity . Beginning 2 NM prior to the FAWP , the full scale CDI sensitivity will smoothly change from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM at the FAWP . As sensitivity changes from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM approaching the FAWP , ... WAAS on the other hand is similar to the localizer . AIM 1-1-18 ( d ) 4 Both lateral and vertical scaling for the LNAV/VNAV and LPV approach procedures are different than the linear scaling of basic GPS . When the complete published procedure is flown , ± 1 NM linear scaling is provided until two ( 2 ) NM prior to the FAF , where the sensitivity increases to be similar to the angular scaling of an ILS . There are two differ - ences in the WAAS scaling and ILS : 1 ) on long final approach segments , the initial scaling will be ± 0.3 NM to achieve equivalent performance to GPS ( and better than ILS , which is less sensitive far from the runway ) ; 2 ) close to the runway threshold , the scaling changes to linear instead of continuing to become more sensitive . The width of the final approach course is tailored so that the total width is usually 700 feet at the runway threshold . Since the origin point of the lateral splay for the angular portion of the final is not fixed due to antenna placement like localizer , the splay angle can remain fixed , making a consistent width of final for aircraft being vectored onto the final approach course on different length runways . When the complete published procedure is not flown , and instead the aircraft needs to capture the extended final approach course similar to ILS , the vector to final ( VTF ) mode is used . Under VTF , the scaling is linear at ± 1 NM until the point where the ILS angular splay reaches a width of ± 1 NM regardless of the distance from the FAWP .
No , you still have to monitor the underlying NAVAID . You just have to read further in that same section of the AIM . Reference the most recent edition of the AIM , which has Change 3 dated April 27 , 2017 . In section 1-2-3-c-5 it says : Use of a suitable RNAV system as a means to navigate on the final approach segment of an instrument approach procedure based on a VOR , TACAN or NDB signal , is allowable . The underlying NAVAID must be operational and the NAVAID monitored for final segment course alignment . That last sentence in the quote above is the important part .
The receiver has to be programmed . It 's important to remember that A429 is a unidirectional hard-wired bus with a single transmitter and multiple receivers . Each connection is physically unique and the reason for all the pin-out diagrams and bus definitions in the ARINC Characteristics . To help with data integrity and fault detection , each transmitter includes Label 377 on the bus which contains its equipment ID . For each type of equipment , the label assignments and coding are fixed . So , if you 're building an LRU that 's receiving GPS data , you would program the port assigned as the GPS # 1 Input to verify the equipment code is 00B hex and the find the specific labels your LRU needs ( it 's likely to be a small subset of all data on the bus ) . Since you know the source LRU and the Labels you 're looking for , you know the individual label coding and can program the receiver to decode the data . Most avionics companies have developed custom ASICs to act as the A429 UART . It simplifies the design and saves costs .
The builders of an FDR must comply with <URL> ( the older <URL> may also be of interest here ) as per <URL> . These documents do not specifically define a data format but provide requirements for what it must be resilient against . Here is an <URL> that covers some of the topics you are asking about . Since most avionics use <URL> as their standard of communication some FDRs provide <URL> to record the avionics instructions at the time . I would assume these inputs dump the bus data right to the storage medium ( most likely solid state memory these days ) . Since the formats the device uses may be proprietary as well as very low level ( and memory efficient ) I am sure they make software to dump it to other formats . For example <URL> . After some more searching I found what may be the most comprehensive answer from this <URL> What Is a Data Frame ? A flight data recorder ( FDR ) data frame is the order of the words that are transmitted from the digital flight data acquisition unit ( DFDAU ) to the digital FDR ( DFDR ) each second over many seconds ( see ARINC 717 for additional information ) . Most FDR system data frames are made up of four subframes within one superframe . For a 64-words-per-second ( wps ) FDR system , a DFDAU will output 64 12-bit words to the FDR each second , where each word typically contains the value of an analog parameter . The order of the words ( for example , word number 12 of the 64 words ) within a subframe , as well as the order of the subframes , define an FDR data frame . This order is important to understand in order to decode the data recorded in the DFDR . It should also be noted although they may have all been phased out by now , some older cockpit voice recorders and FDRs recorded on analog mediums and may still be inservice doing so .
I did all my training in PA-28 's ( Warrior and Archer II mainly ) and here is my advice ) First off , practice makes perfect in all cases here . Second , I am not a CFI and you should ALWAYS seek the experience of a CFI to help you learn how to fly properly . Discuss everything with your CFI before trying anything . The PA-28 is one of the most benign airframes and even in the bumpiest the bumpiest of conditions you can fly it by the numbers every time . Floating on landing is generally caused by ( in my experience ) 2 things . Excessive speed on final - Remember you will only land nicely once you have gotten rid of all excess speed . This happens during your round-out and flare to landing . On a short field even a perfect landing will take up more runway if you are overspeed since you need to bleed that speed off . Ballooning - This is generally a result of over speed and over flaring . Since the PA-28 is a low wing ( compared to the high wing of the C172 ) an over-flare to early will cause significant ballooning as you effectively bounce off the ground effect . A proper timed round out and flare will come in time . One thing you can do to mitigate this ( and I found this helped as a student pilot for me ) is to fly a longer final leg ( and thus a longer downwind ) . When I was learning to fly a stable approach it took time for me to get the settings in and really nail the approach . A longer final will help you settle the plane into place as a student and really nail a maneuver like this . Generally tight patterns are taught but if its safer and better for you to fly a longer final and nail the maneuver , do it . In the PA-28 's you can ( and should ) be right on 65 kts when doing a soft field . Practice descending at a constant airspeed at altitude with your instructor . 500ft/min right on 65Kts with full flaps , then come back into the pattern and use what you learned to come in right as you should . Cut the power a bit earlier . Generally you are most likely taught to cut the power over the numbers and touch down at the markers . In a short field situation you can cut the power a bit earlier , pitch down to keep you speed up , and touch down right on the numbers . <URL> Train at an actual short field ( or as short as you are allowed to fly ) . My flight school generally had us going between 5000ft airports with 2 runways ( we were based at KPNE ) . Crosswinds were never really an issue and runway length left plenty of margin for error . My instructor made it a point to take me to 3000 X 60 fields to really get practice in ( the shortest the fligh schools insurance would cover ) . Depending on where you are training out of this may not be an issue . One more general habit of new pilots is over correcting and getting your self into an increasingly corrective state . This happens both laterally and vertically but in your case the vertical over correction is going to be the killer . If you are comming in and notice that you are low you add power , pitch up a bit and now you are too high . You pull power and pitch back down but this builds up some speed . Now you find your self over correcting all over the place to get back to a stabilized aproach . This is where the long final will help . You need to really get the plane on that 65Kt mark , trim it off , leave the power alone and fly it in . If you get bumped by a gust or a thermal wait a second and see if the termal settles then and only then should you come in with a small correction .
I do n't know about the situation specifically in the US , but in my - mostly European - experience crew are happy to welcome you to their office after flight . When I feel the need to see the cockpit or discuss things with the pilots I try to ask the flightcrew before take-off if I can meet them after the flight . Sometimes I explain my interests to the cabin crew and often they will arrange the visit . In a few cases I just asked while deboarding . Depending on the aircraft type and airport situation you have to think about the logistics a bit . In single aisle aircraft , if you start a discussion with crew while deboarding , you are blocking the queue . This gives the feeling that it is an inconvenient moment and reduces your chances . So if you ask at the last possible moment , make sure most people already exited before you . However , if passengers are transported to the terminal by bus , you will be holding the bus since you are the last to get off . This reduces the time you can spend in cockpit drastically . If you expect to be bussed to the terminal , ask cabin crew before the descent and do n't wait until everybody has exited .
Sadly , there likely are no official recordings of this story . Unfortunately , there was no <URL> at the time , and unless there is an accident or incident , audio is not routinely archived by the FAA or NTSB . Even when you want to request recent data , the FAA warns , <URL> ( I 've seen elsewhere but could n't find an official source that it can be anywhere from 5-45 days ) , so even if you could find a date of this event , you would n't be able to file a FOI request .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
Transport Canada has all the information <URL> for each FAA license type ( and type ratings ) ; the necessary forms and contacts are <URL> . These are the basic requirements for a private pilot , for example : 6.1 Conditions for Conversion - Private Pilot -- Aeroplane . ( 1 ) Must hold an FAA Private airman certificate with airplane category and class rating ( s ) . ( 1 ) Age : Must be at least 17 years of age . ( 2 ) Medical fitness : Must hold either a Category 1 or Category 3 TCCA medical . ( 3 ) Knowledge : Must pass the Conversion - Private Pilot Licence -- Aeroplane , ( FAAPA ) written examination on air laws and communications . Must be able to read , write and communicate in English or French . ( 4 ) Experience : Must provide proof of a minimum of 45 hours pilot flight time . ( 5 ) Skill : No additional practical flight test is required .
Generally speaking you continue your climb after rotation although this will depend on the runway , runway conditions and airport procedures . <URL> : In some cases if you are leaving from a grass strip ( still technically a runway ) you will go for your soft field take off maneuver . In this case you will actually pop the plane off the ground into ground effect as soon as you can ( you will be flying at this point ) . Then build up speed in ground effect ( at a level attitude so you can see the runway fine ) then begin your climb out when you have sufficient speed at a climb attitude . <URL> : If the runway is short ( or there is an obstacle to clear ) you will execute your short field maneuvers . In this case you will take off with 1 notches of flaps . Gun the engine but hold the breaks and let the prop spin up . Then as soon as you hit rotation speed pull back to your best angle of climb . Then when you have cleared your obstacle you can level it out to a normal climb t ( best rate or what ever you planed for ) . In this case clearing the obstacle may be more important than strictly maintaining the runway heading ( depending on where the obstacle is ) . In this maneuver you will focus on your airspeed ( to keep from stalling ) as well as your attitude indicator and your heading indicator to keep as on course as possible . Air Port Procedures : Some airports have special procedures for departing because of obstacles , air spaces , noise abatements etc. . For example I fly out of DYL and they have a procedure on runway 23 that calls for a turn to 250 and climb out to 1200 ft before executing any other turns or maneuvers . Once I have cleared the trees I will usually begin my turn . Generally speaking you fly the runway heading after you have rotated and you do this using the heading indicator NOT the compass . Since you are in accelerated climbing flight your compass is inaccurate .
You can find much of this sort of information at <URL> For example , searching for <URL> lists their fleet , and clicking the number of active for a model ( eg <URL> ) will list the tail number and other interesting information . From there you can click a <URL> for all the information along with a picture .
There is a push to talk ( PTT ) button located at the yoke or sidestick , in small and large aircraft likewise . When the PTT button is not triggered , all communication is routed through the intercom and not broadcasted on the frequency . Once the button is triggered , communication is broadcasted on the active frequency . In the below picture of a glider , it is located on top of the middle stick . On the second picture is it behind the yoke , to be used with the index finger . ( Image Source : <URL> ) ( Image Source : <URL> )
How do makers get data from aircraft in flight The data is usually transmitted using something like <URL> which is a system used in aircraft to transmit data in flight using underlying radio and satellite communications systems . The communications infrastructure is typically provided by large multinational companies who specialise in this job . See ARINC , SITA , Inmarsat and so on . Engine-makers and Aircraft makers often offer pro-active maintenance and support services to airlines , operators and lessors which involve their aircraft transmitting such data to the makers . For example , Airbus has <URL> Airbus Real Time Health Monitoring ( AiRTHM ) is an advanced service through which A380 and A350 XWB operators can receive guidance on optimised maintenance and real-time troubleshooting actions . As part of this effort , a dedicated 24/7 team takes advantage of the uplink technology to further investigate and anticipate warnings/fault consequences . The uplink technology allows real-time remote access to aircraft data parameters via the ACARS digital datalink system , enabling Airbus AiRTHM engineers to deliver maintenance and technical advice both in flight and on the ground . Boeing have <URL> AHM sutomatically monitors , collects and transmits service levels using ACARS through the installed Aircraft Condition Monitoring System ( ACMS ) Note that ACARS is a relatively low-volume data transmission system . Makers have explored other underlying communication systems as a way to transmit more data at lower cost . How is this data stored It is true that there is a lot of data but Boeing and Airbus are big businesses and are able to partner with major IT businesses . For example <URL> " Today 's aircraft can generate up to a half terabyte of data per flight , an unprecedented volume and variety of data seen in few other industries , " said Timothy Wholey , IBM global leader for the aerospace and defense industry in its global business services unit . Note - not all data has to be transmitted in flight . A lot of data is collected and stored in the plane and only transferred when the aircraft is on the ground . Makers like Airbus and Boeing inevitably are already very heavy users of IT for aircraft design purposes . For example , <URL>
To answer the question as asked , such data is out there , although it may be hard to get . A flight simulator program is probably much easier , although the real answer to the question probably is , the effects of anything other than straight &amp; level flight are probably dwarfed by the effects of DIRECTION of flight coupled with time-of-day ( i.e. is the sun overhead , or low on the horizon to one side or the other , or ahead of or behind the aircraft ) , and the effect of cloud cover . Airlines capture exactly the data being discussed as part of the Flight Data Recorder -- one of the two famous " black box " recorders ( the other being the Cockpit Voice Recorder ) . This data is routinely downloaded by the airlines ' maintenance departments and analyzed as part of Flight Operations Quality Assurance or FOQA programs . They can see roll , pitch , yaw , heading , altitude , position , track , and dozens if not hundreds of other parameters , all on a moment-by-moment basis , and the analysis of this data is used to inform any number of proactive safety efforts . Rather than waiting for an accident , they can see where things are starting to drift away from what 's desired , and take preventative actions . The problem here is that FOQA data is extremely sensitive , and for an outsider to get access to it is probably somewhere between extremely difficult , and absolutely impossible . The next step down from that would be the logged data as has been discussed in the various comments , and I 'm not smart enough on those specifics to add anything useful to what 's already been posted as far as where and how to get those logs . After that , it is possible to record data yourself , with the right equipment ( not cheap ) . Using an iPad with Foreflight and an AHRS unit ( essentially a self-contained INS , with receivers for things like XM satellite weather , GPS , and ADSB , you can record a track log that includes all the parameters mentioned . Here 's the issue : if you 're paying for that equipment and the flight time , you will want to get DATA for your efforts ... so let 's go do STUFF so we have an interesting track log : do some holding , fly a few approaches , maybe a steep turn or a stall series . Because that 's much more interesting DATA ! But the simple fact is that when airplanes are actually being used for anything besides flight training , most of what they 're doing is simple boring straight &amp; level flight , probably on autopilot . Most of the maneuvering happens at the beginning &amp; end of the flight , on the departure and then on the arrival and the approach , and that all happens at lower altitudes where clouds will have the greatest influence how much sun your solar collectors are getting . Up in the 30-to-40-thousand feet range is where most of the cruise flight happens , mostly straight and level , and with most ( though not all ) of the sun-blocking clouds below you . For a realistic estimate of how much solar energy your panels can get , I strongly suspect that you 'll do best with an assumption of straight &amp; level flight , and models of the various possibilities of direction of flight and time-of-day . And combine that with estimates of how cloud cover will affect your ability to collect solar energy ( remembering that plenty of flights happen at night ) . A really accurate log of a particular flight could allow you to calculate to fairly high precision how your received energy would vary over time for that exact flight , but when you want to generalize that out to a large number of operations , you 'll need to look at the factors that influence collection the most , and those will be the variables other than detailed records of roll &amp; pitch .
You 're correct that there are two ways to connect the tug with an aircraft . In case a tow bar is used , it is fixed laterally at the nose landing gear , while allowing slight movement for height adjustment . Usually , the tow bar may pivot freely laterally and vertically at the end that attaches to the tug rather than the aircraft end , which is fixed . The following image shows the tow bar attachment point in Airbus A380 . <URL> Image from alamy.com . The attachment points differ from aircraft to aircraft , so the tow bar basically operates as an adapter between the aircraft and the tug . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . When using a towbarless tug , the nose wheel is simply scooped off the ground using hydraulic ( for large aircraft ) or electric power . The tug has a movable arm , which is opened and the tug is moved and placed so that the nose wheel fits inside the fixed arms of the tug . The movable arm is then closed . The movable arm and the opposite side has sloping edges , over which the wheels slide and the nose is lifted off as the arm closes due to hydraulic power . This video shows how its done in case of Airbus A380 . Video from Youtube : How to lift up the world 's largest commercial aircraft the Airbus A380 . by user Kasavubu The nose wheel dimensions and aircraft weight do matter and tugs are certified for different ramp weights .
end question
start question
Is it possible to fly horizontally with zero angle of attack ?
Unless you tell us which book you read this in ( and what exactly it said ) , it is not possible to answer your question ( the answer depends on whether the zero angle of attack is that of the airframe or the airfoil ( wing ) ) . We can try for a general answer though . As far as angle of attack is concerned , there are two kinds - geometric and absolute . First , angle of attack is the angle between some reference line and the freestream ( i.e. the velocity vector ) . The selection of reference line determines the ' kind ' of angle of attack . Geometric angle of attack , $ \ alpha $ is the angle between the chord and freestream ; this is the one usually used . Absolute angle of attack , $ \ alpha_a $ is the angle between the freestream and the zero lift line ( the line , which when parallel to the freestream , produces no lift in the wing ) . The geometric and absolute angles of attack can be related through $ \ alpha_a = \ alpha - \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ , where $ \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ is the angle between the chord and zero lift line . <URL> Relation between geometric and absolute angles of attack , image from <URL> For a cambered airfoil , the zero lift line is negative i.e. the airfoil will produce lift even when the geometric angle of attack is zero ( in this condition , the absolute angle of attack is positive ) . For a symmetric airfoil , of course , the zero lift line coincides with the chord and as such , the airfoil produces no lift when the geometric ( or absolute ) angle of attack is zero . As far as the lift is concerned , what matters is the absolute angle of attack , while we usually use the geometric one . Simply put , what matters is the absolute angle of attack of the wing . If this value is positive , lift will be produced and level flight is possible , whatever the aircraft attitude .
I think the answer is no . If you think about V1 as primarily based on runway length , it is certainly possible for an aircraft to easily reach Vr long before reaching the " point of no return " as far as stopping distance is concerned . However , you must also consider the meaning of Vr . This is when the aircraft is going to rotate . After rotation and leaving the ground , the distance required to still stop on that same runway increases significantly . For this reason , maximum V1 is generally considered to be Vr ( see <URL> ) . In large aircraft , rejecting a takeoff after leaving the ground is generally discouraged , unless the pilot feels that the plane could be uncontrollable . It 's must safer to continue the takeoff and fly for a normal approach . However , <URL> . In smaller aircraft , it 's more reasonable for the aircraft to take off and then land safely ( I 'm thinking a C172 on one of the low density altitude runways you linked to ) .
Accessing hydraulic lines &amp; resevoirs is perfectly straightforward in plenty of aircraft -- the C-130 as one example . With crew chiefs &amp; their tools &amp; spare parts on board , a temp repair on a hydraulic line would be possible . Highly unusual , but possible . Spare fluid is common enough to have on-board to replenish the resevoirs . However , access to the tires ... Nope . I ca n't think of anything where you could do that , and it would have to be a designed-in capability . Typically , crew-accessible areas are pressurized , but where the wheels retract , are n't . You have things like access to unpressurized bomb bays , and in unpressurized aircraft that 's not a barrier , but still ... If there are designs where the crew can access the tires in flight , I 'm not picturing them . As noted elsewhere , landing with a flat tire is n't typically a big deal .
Yes ! You can charter large aircraft like the 747 . A lot of airlines offer this service for large groups ( sports teams come to mind ) , and there are also operators of the Boeing Business Jet that were created just for private and charter uses . The TSA requires aircraft like this to adopt a security program called the Twelve-Five Standard Security Program ( or TFSSP for short ) . <URL> contains the regulations which cover this . Most of the security program falls under non-disclosure rules that prevent anyone with knowledge of the program from talking about it to people that do n't have an operational need to know ( and have also signed a non-disclosure ) . This helps to prevent people that would try to bypass the security measures in place from even knowing what to look for . The regulations do specify the following though : Each operator of an aircraft that weighs more than 12,500 lbs . that is used for scheduled or charter operations must adopt the program . The program must be approved by the TSA . The program must contain the procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used regarding : the acceptance and screening of individuals and their accessible property , including , if applicable , the carriage weapons as part of State-required emergency equipment , the acceptance and screening of checked baggage , the acceptance and screening of cargo , the screening of individuals and property , the use of metal detection devices , regarding the use of x-ray systems , the use of explosives detection systems , the responsibilities of security coordinators , the requirements for law enforcement personnel , carriage of accessible weapons , carriage of prisoners under the control of armed law enforcement officers , transportation of Federal Air Marshals , aircraft and facilities control function , the specific locations where the air carrier has entered into an exclusive area agreement , fingerprint-based criminal history records checks , personnel identification systems , training , an aviation security contingency plan , bomb and air piracy threats , flight deck privileges , and the Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan ( AOIP ) . As you can see , there is quite a bit that goes into the TFSSP . Two of the biggest things though are the requirement for all flight crew members to undergo a fingerprint based criminal background check and that access to the flight deck must be restricted . For more details , refer to the actual regulations which cover this in more depth . <URL> also has a page about the TFSSP .
There is an excellent answer at <URL> The <URL> is a ground attack fighter unsuited to intercepting and/or shooting down 777s . If the Ukrainian air force wanted to do so , they have better aircraft available . The SU-25 max speed is slower than a cruising 777 . The SU-25 has an operational ceiling of 16000 ft with max weapons to 23000 ft clean , MH17 was at 33000 ft. It is an unpressurised aircraft . As a ground attack aircraft it probably only rarely carries air to air missiles . It can carry the R-60 infra-red air-to-air missile which has a 6 lb warhead effective against small aircraft . An R-60 once hit and destroyed one engine of a small BAE 125 business jet at 35000 ft but failed to bring it down , apparently the missile failed to explode . <URL> , a Boeing 707 , was hit by an R-60 and made an emergency landing 40 minutes later . The R-60 is a short-range missile ( 5 miles ) . The Russians claim the SU-25 came within two or three miles of MH17 . On the whole this makes the SU-25 a poor choice for shooting down a cruising 777 . It seems unlikely that a 777 would be shot down in this way . Not impossible , but far less likely than other proposed scenarios such as those involving BUK ( SA-11 ) ground to air missiles . Results of an <URL> . Results of an <URL> ... two R-60s were launched , one missed . These R-60s were fired by supersonic interceptors , not by SU-25 ground-attack aircraft .
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
The current QNH at an airport is included in METARs so you can grab it form there . There are a few online services to retrieve the METAR automatically , such as <URL> ( using Vienna airport as an example ) . The latest METAR when I wrote this answer was : which shows a QNH of 1012 . Note that depending on the country the format may vary slightly , but in Austria ( and European countries ) you should always find a value in the report .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
( This is similar to <URL> - and see <URL> in particular - but there may be some points here that deserve a separate answer . ) First , can you use a Canadian medical instead of a US medical , with a US pilot 's certificate ? The answer is no , with one ( ? ) exception . If it were possible , then people could shop around other countries to find the easiest medical for them , which would be a huge loophole and would allow them to simply ignore the FAA 's medical requirements . As a general statement , the country of your pilot 's certificate and medical certificate must be the same . The only exception I 'm aware of is when you hold a foreign license and medical , and then ask the FAA to issue a foreign-based private certificate under <URL> . See <URL> for more information but basically , you would have to hold a Canadian pilot 's license and medical first , and even then you would be limited by the privileges of the Canadian license . Second , could you get a US commercial certificate using a Canadian medical ? Yes , but only in a very roundabout way , and even then you could n't use it . You 'd first have to get an FAA foreign-based private certificate as I described above - which means getting a Canadian license first - and that certificate would be fine to use for a US commercial checkride . However , after passing the checkride you 'd still need an FAA second-class medical to actually exercise your new commercial privileges . Finally , another option would be to get a Canadian commercial license and medical , and then fly only Canadian aircraft in the US . I have no idea how practical that is because most countries do n't allow <URL> , but maybe there 's some way to make it work . AFAIK diabetes is only disqualifying if you 're insulin-dependent ; if you 're on oral meds you may still be able to get a Special Issuance for it . If you have any doubts about your personal situation then I 'd suggest consulting an AME and/or calling AOPA , if you 're a member .
The aerodynamic coefficients $ c_l , c_d , c_m $ are in general functions of the angle of attack $ \ alpha $ , Reynolds $ Re $ and Mach number $ Ma $ . For your experiments , since you are operating in a very low $ Re $ regime , assuming incompressible flow , your lift , drag , moment curves will largely depend on viscous phenomena ( i.e. $ Re $ number ) . Generally , as $ Re $ number drops , the boundary layer thickens . For this reason , you will expect a lower $ c_l $ number ( due to viscous decambering ) and a higher $ c_d $ . You may also discover non-linear behaviors even on operating angles due to laminar separation bubble forming/bursting on the suction surface and this is very dependent on the turbulent intensity of your wind tunnel so the stall angles and post-stall behavior may not be the same for flight conditions where turbulent intensity is very low . Finally , you can confirm with Xfoil that for $ Re = 300k \ Rightarrow \ alpha _ { L = 0 } = -4.33 \ deg $ while for $ Re = 150k \ Rightarrow \ alpha _ { L = 0 } = -3.64 \ deg $ for the NACA4412 .
The inlets of supersonic aircraft routinely control ( reduce ) the Mach number of the engine ( at compressor inlet ) during flight . This is done using either a 2D ramp type inlet ( like Concorde ) or a center body ( like Mig-21 ) . These inlets convert the incoming supersonic flow to subsonic flow by forming shock waves in the path of the airflow . <URL> Source : sturgeonshouse.ipbhost.com In subsonic conditions , the inlets perform two functions : At cruise condition , diffusion of the free-stream flow to the compressor inlet condition . At takeoff , acceleration of static air to the compressor inlet condition . So basically , the inlet design can be optimized such that the Mach number is constant ( within some variation ) over the engine operational range . In your case , however , I think that it is a simplifying assumption made for the problem .
That will vary very much from country to country . While civil aviation regulations are very much standardised across the globe through ICAO ( of course with local exceptions ) and manufacturer 's guidance , military aviation is very much the domain of national regulations . Technically a military jet will be able to fly with an unserviceable ejection seat , so I imagine that some countries under some circumstances allow flying when they do n't work .
You are mostly correct , but the fuselage distorts the airflow in sideslip such that the windward wing sees a higher angle of attack near the root , and the leeward wing a lower angle of attack . Please see the drawing below for an explanation . The blue lines show the sideward component of air flow and the red arrows the resulting rolling moment . This is why low wing airplanes need more dihedral , and high wing planes like your 172 almost none . Wing sweep adds more directional stability , and then you even find aircraft with pronounced anhedral , like the <URL> or the <URL> . See <URL> for more detail on this .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
In AF447 the falling motion most definitely affected the angle of attack . Due to the fact that the pf did keep the stick pulled back for all but the last few seconds of the fall the aircraft was so steep that , although the aircraft was falling at a slight pitch up , angles of attack actually reached as high as 60 ° . The descent was so steep that the air was passing over the pitot tubes at such an angle that it was reading below 40 knots , although the plane was moving far faster then that . The computer required that the airspeed be of a certain value to consider the aoa plausible so the stall warning stopped sounding even though the aoa was between 30 ° and 60 ° during the fall . When it hit the water the forward ground speed and the vertical speed were both 107 kts . As far as why the pilot did not realize he was stalled , that 's the question of the century . Much effort has been put into figuring that out , and there are numerous things that are at play . But in the end I do n't think anyone has come up with a satisfactory answer for that . If you want to dig into the causes of this crash and get a good understanding of Airbus systems in general I highly recommend <URL> and it 's companion <URL> . The author is uniquely qualified and gives the most thorough explanation yet is not as technically challenging as reading the BEA report . All of the numbers mentioned in this answer come from the linked book .
You did n't say which country you 're asking about , but in the US it 's legal . Your definition of service ceiling <URL> , and there 's no regulation that I know of that requires you remain below it . The only clear case I can think of would be if the POH says that the service ceiling is an actual limitation and you should n't operate above it . Exceeding limitations in the POH is a violation of <URL> : Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards The <URL> requires you to report to ATC if you ca n't maintain a 500ft/min climb rate , so I suppose that not doing that could get you in trouble somehow . But there 's no actual regulation , as far as I can see . There are other , contrived scenarios that you could invent . If exceeding the service ceiling would require specific equipment or training that you do n't have , then you could be in violation of various regulations , but that is n't because of the service ceiling itself . And finally , there 's the catch-all <URL> : No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . If you do operate above the service ceiling and something goes wrong , then the FAA could bust you on that . Trying to get over mountains at or close to your service ceiling could be an example .
Perhaps the most important resource for airfoil data is the NACA ( the predecessor of NASA ) Report No. 824 <URL> by Abbott , Von Doenhoff and Stivers . This report contains the description , generation and experimental data like variation of lift , drag and moment coefficients with angles of attack for a number of NACA airfoils . You can also see NACA report No. 460 <URL> by Jacobs , Ward and Pinkerton . Also , <URL> by Pinkerton and Greenberg . These are similar to the first report , but older .
You are right , the horizontal tail of a conventional airplane appears to have a higher incidence , but the actual angle of attack is smaller than that of the wing . The wing , flying ahead of the tail , produces downwash , so the flow at the tail location has a distinct downward component . The downwash angle can be calculated from the lift coefficient and the geometry of the aircraft : To simplify things , let 's assume the wing is just acting on the air with the density $ \ rho $ flowing with the speed $ v $ through a circle with a diameter equal to the span $ b $ of the wing . If we just look at this stream tube , the mass flow is $ $ \ frac { dm } { dt } = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v $ $ Lift $ L$ is then the impulse change which is caused by the wing and equal to weight . With the downward air speed $ v_z $ imparted by the wing , lift is : $ $ L = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v \ cdot v_z = S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho $ $ $ S$ is the wing area and $ c_L $ the overall lift coefficient . If we now solve for the vertical air speed , we get $ $ v_z = \ frac { S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho } { \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L \ cdot v } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ with $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ the aspect ratio of the wing . Now we can divide the vertical speed by the air speed to calculate the angle by which the air has been deflected by the wing . Let 's call it $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ A typical airliner cruise lift coefficient is 0.4 , and a typical aspect ratio is around 8 : This results in a downwash angle of nearly 2 ° if the lift distribution over span is elliptical . In reality , it is more triangular-shaped , so the downwash angle is larger near the center of the aircraft . Note that the engine nacelles of the <URL> are tilted 3 ° up to align them with the local flow . The resulting angle of attack is lower by those 3 ° , and if the angle of attack difference between wing and tail is less than that , the tail surface will appear angled upward . To achieve static stability , the tail will have to fly at a slightly <URL> .
The wingtip vortices create both upwash and downwash ; The downwash lies within the wingspan and affects the wing angle of attack while the upwash region lies outside the wingspan and can be utilized by another aircraft ( or bird ) flying behind and above the wing . The flow induced by the downwash reduces the effective angle of attack of the ( finite ) wing and causes the induced drag . See if this image clarifies your doubt . <URL> Source : aerospaceweb.org Consider the upwash before the wing and downwash after the wing ( section ) . <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com As it can be seen , the airflow in front of the wing is slightly directed upwards by the upwash . Now , the angle the wing makes with the horizontal datum ( i.e. relative airflow ) is the same . However , the airflow is slightly turned upwards and the wing sees the air coming at it at a different angle compared to the relative airflow . As a result , the effective angle of attack ( defined as the angle of attack that lies between the chord of an airfoil and the effective airflow ) is reduced , so that the relative and effective airflow looks something like this : <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com This difference between the relative and effective airflows is what that causes the induced drag . <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com
The term bearing is not so clear , as the <URL> . But let 's say bearing means the angle between the track ( over ground ) of an aircraft and a fixed location . This position usually is the magnetic or ( true ) geographic north , but within the context of this question , it could also be any location on earth . If the bearing is 90 ° or 270 ° ( perpendicular to fixed location ) , the aircraft just flies circles , in case of using the geographic north , it flies along a line of constant latitude . If the aircraft is flying at a different angle , the trajectory is a spiral , more precisely a <URL> , with curls around that location and the location at the opposite side of the earth : <URL> ( <URL> ) BUT due to the magnetic deviation , the magnetic field does n't point to the ( magnetic ) north pole everywhere on earth . I simulated the trajectory for a quite similar <URL> . The red arrows indicate where the needle of a compass points to . The black line is the trajectory for an aircraft flying a 90 ° - track with respect to the local magnetic field . It is just a deformed circle . The blue line is the trajectory of an aircraft flying a 93.6 ° - track . This is a deformed Rhumb line , and the aircraft coming from KLAX will circle around the magnetic pole at some point like a moth around a light . ( at least mathematically ) <URL>
end question
start question
Does night takeoff & landing currency count for daytime currency ?
Yes , night landings satisfy the requirements of § 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) for both nighttime and daytime currency . The wording of the regulation is not crystal clear , and some ( including me ) have thought that the wording of ( a ) ( 2 ) required daytime landings for daytime currency . This is not the case , per the following interpretation from the FAA ( Springfield , IL FSDO , dated 16 April 2014 ) : Please note , in this section , there is no mention of a day or night differences in the regulation . In 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) the regulation specifically mentions the requirement for Night Takeoffs and Landings and the time period they can be completed in . If the passenger carrying will be done at night , the additional requirements of 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) must be met . The night takeoffs and landings , as required by 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) , will qualify for both the day and night requirement , provided all other requirements are met . The day takeoffs and landings will NOT qualify for the night ( section ( b ) ) requirement though . Stanley E. Swank II Aviation Safety Inspector Springfield , IL FSDO , AGL-19 Other sources on the Internet agree with this interpretation : <URL> : ... your three takeoffs and landings to a full stop at night will also fulfill the recent flight experience requirements for day currency . <URL> .
The best term to describe it would be the ' final approach segment ' , which is <URL> : This is the segment in which alignment and descent for landing are made . Final approach may be made to a runway for a straight-in landing , or to an aerodrome for a visual manoeuvre . The <URL> : The FAS begins at the PFAF and ends at the landing threshold point ( LTP ) . The FAS is typically aligned with the runway centerline extended . The segment OEA is divided into the FAS OCS and the visual segment obstacle identification surface ( OIS ) . Note : Both <URL> ( which refers to the ICAO document ) and <URL> define it only for instrument approaches .
Once you 've lined up nicely on the runway , you only need the rudder pedals as they do provide enough nose gear steering for the takeoff roll even at low speed . Rudder pedal steering is available during takeoff , landing , and taxiing when small directional changes are required . Full deflection of the rudder pedals produces about 7 degrees of nose wheel steering . -- <URL> The 7 degrees figure quoted above will vary by plane . Tiller is used when tight turns are needed . Remember most airliners do n't have a tiller on the first officer 's side , yet they do takeoff without the captain steering for them . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the linked video we see the captain let go of the tiller as soon as he is lined up on the runway . Also notice the tiller move on its own afterward , which indicates that the rudder pedal [ nose wheel ] steering is being used .
The Bell Helicopter <URL> covers survivability in Appendix 1 . Specifically it refers to Redundant Fly-by-Wire Controls Redundant Electrical Power Redundant Hydraulics Swashplate Actuator Armor implying that this possibility has been engineered to a minimum . Nevertheless , the premise of your question is that it 's occurred , so further on in the same section we see V-22 crashworthiness is a function of design . Heavy components , such as the engines and transmissions , are located away from the cabin and cockpit area . The proprotors are designed to fray or " broomstraw " rather than splinter on impact with the ground . The energy-absorbing landing gear system is designed to attenuate most of the energy for hard landings up to 24 fps . The wing is constructed to fail outboard of the wing/fuselage attachment in a manner that absorbs kinetic energy and ensures the cabin area will not be crushed , thereby protecting the occupants . An anti-plow bulkhead prevents the nose from digging in on impact , and the fuselage provides a reinforced shell that is designed to maintain 85 % of its volume during a crash . Aircrew and embarked troops receive additional protection from crashworthy seats that stroke vertically to absorb energy ( my emphasis ) Since the aircraft is still flying , I 'd head for the nearest decently equipped airfield , conduct a normal fixed wing approach and land , trusting that the rotors will sweep a nice clean path along the runway instead of peppering the fuselage with shrapnel . I 'd probably take the precaution of cutting power early to reduce the kinetic energy in the rotors before they hit the ground .
They need the throughput . Got to use what you have . They utilize their crossing runways to the full under any conditions that allow it . Major commercial airports try to have as many parallel runways as possible , as crossing runways are a hassle . ( See DFW , ATL , LAX , many other examples of new or remodelled major airports using almost exclusively parallel runways ) . But sometimes ( for any number of reasons , a main one at LGA being space ) parallel runways have n't been built , so they ca n't be used .
You can log PIC time because you are " the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated " ( <URL> ) . That 's all that is required in this case for the pilot to log PIC time . So since a pilot must be night current in order to fly with passengers , ( <URL> ) the question becomes , " is a flight instructor considered a passenger if they are providing instruction " ? AOPA has a <URL> about this specific scenario where they quote FAA legal interpretations as saying : " We agree that , for purposes of section 61.57 ( b ) , an authorized instructor providing instruction in an aircraft is not considered a passenger with respect to the person receiving instruction , even where the person receiving the instruction is acting as [ pilot in command ] . ( The instructor must be current , qualified to instruct , and hold a category , class , and type rating in the aircraft , if a class and type rating is required . ) The instructor is not a passenger because he is present specifically to train the person receiving instruction . Neither is the person receiving instruction a passenger with respect to the instructor . This training may take place , even though neither pilot has met the 61.57 ( b ) requirements . " Note that they say in this case , since neither of them is a passenger , that technically neither the pilot or the flight instructor has to be night current .
I do n't think that the article suggests " pilots are using ILS for landing only in bad whether conditions " . it simply says that under foggy ( i.e. in bad weather ) , ILS is used as visual approach is not possible . The use of ILS is at the discretion of pilots with ATC permission . The ILS localiser and glideslope can still be used as a reference during the visual approach ( even if the landing is not ILS ) . The decision is the pilots ' as the visual indicators and glideslope may not match . While it is true that ILS is much more precise and safer , you are forgetting the human factor - the pilot may want to ' fly ' the aircraft rather than letting the computer do it .
The Part 121 regulation that governs low visibility takeoffs are specified in 14 CFR 121.651 . It references company OpSpecs and 91.175 and Part 97 : " Standard " takeoff minimums are specified in 14 CFR 91.175 and would be the highest of : Non-standard takeoff minimums specified on the airport charts ( FAR 97 ) For aircraft , other than helicopters , having two engines or less -- 1 statute mile visibility . For aircraft having more than two engines -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . For helicopters -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . OpSpec C056 is issued to all 121 carriers , and basically just spells out the " standard " takeoff minimums that I listed above , and specifies that RVR must be used if it is available on the runway . OpSpec C078 is normally issued and allows taking off with lower than standard visibility as long as the airport does n't already have published higher than standard takeoff minimums . This is a fairly involved OpSpec with several optional paragraphs , and operators may be approved for takeoff operations down to and including 300 RVR . For those not familiar with the term , RVR ( Runway Visual Range ) is the distance that a pilot can see down the runway , measured by automatic equipment , and is measured in feet in the US . It offers approvals for the following visibilities : 1/4 SM / RVR 1600 : Touchdown zone RVR ( or mid RVR if touchdown zone is inop ) is controlling : Requires " runway markings or runway lighting provide pilots with adequate visual reference to continuously identify the takeoff surface and maintain directional control throughout the takeoff run . " ( Basically as long as the pilot feels comfortable , but specifically mentions HIRL , CL , and RCLM as okay . ) RVR 1000 ( optional ) Touchdown zone RVR and rollout RVR ( A mid-RVR report may be substituted for either if they are inop , but still must have two systems ) are both controlling Requires Runway Centerline Lights ( CL ) RVR 500 ( optional ) Touchdown zone RVR , mid RVR , and rollout RVR are all controlling ( one may be inop ) Requires Operative runway centerline lights ( CL ) Requires Runway centerline markings ( RCLM ) RVR 300 ( optional ) Requires a takeoff guidance system Requires operative high intensity runway lights ( HIRL ) Requires operative runway centerline lights ( CL ) Requires serviceable runway centerline markings ( RCLM ) Front course guidance from the localizer ( if applicable to the system used ) Crosswind less than 10 knots Touchdown zone RVR , mid RVR , and rollout RVR are all controlling ( one may be inop ) Requires special training requirements for both the PIC and SIC Taxiways with operative taxiway centerline lighting must be available Regulations / <URL> <URL> ( a ) Notwithstanding any clearance from ATC , no pilot may begin a takeoff in an airplane under IFR when the weather conditions reported by the U.S. National Weather Service , a source approved by that Service , or a source approved by the Administrator , are less than those specified in -- ( 1 ) The certificate holder 's operations specifications ; or ( 2 ) Parts 91 and 97 of this chapter , if the certificate holder 's operations specifications do not specify takeoff minimums for the airport . <URL> ... ( f ) Civil airport takeoff minimums . This paragraph applies to persons operating an aircraft under part 121 , 125 , 129 , or 135 of this chapter . ( 1 ) Unless otherwise authorized by the FAA , no pilot may takeoff from a civil airport under IFR unless the weather conditions at time of takeoff are at or above the weather minimums for IFR takeoff prescribed for that airport under part 97 of this chapter . ( 2 ) If takeoff weather minimums are not prescribed under part 97 of this chapter for a particular airport , the following weather minimums apply to takeoffs under IFR : ( i ) For aircraft , other than helicopters , having two engines or less -- 1 statute mile visibility . ( ii ) For aircraft having more than two engines -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . ( iii ) For helicopters -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . C056 , IFR Takeoff Minimums , Part 121 Airplane Operations - All Airports . a. Standard takeoff minimums are defined as 1 statute mile visibility or RVR 5000 for airplanes having 2 engines or less and 1/2 statute mile visibility or RVR 2400 for airplanes having more than 2 engines . b. RVR reports , when available for a particular runway , shall be used for all takeoff operations on that runway . All takeoff operations , based on RVR , must use RVR reports from the locations along the runway specified in this paragraph . c . When a takeoff minimum is not published , the certificate holder may use the applicable standard takeoff minimum and any lower than standard takeoff minimums authorized by these operations specifications . When standard takeoff minimums or greater are used , the Touchdown Zone RVR report , if available , is controlling . d . When a published takeoff minimum is greater than the applicabl
Yes , night landings satisfy the requirements of § 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) for both nighttime and daytime currency . The wording of the regulation is not crystal clear , and some ( including me ) have thought that the wording of ( a ) ( 2 ) required daytime landings for daytime currency . This is not the case , per the following interpretation from the FAA ( Springfield , IL FSDO , dated 16 April 2014 ) : Please note , in this section , there is no mention of a day or night differences in the regulation . In 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) the regulation specifically mentions the requirement for Night Takeoffs and Landings and the time period they can be completed in . If the passenger carrying will be done at night , the additional requirements of 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) must be met . The night takeoffs and landings , as required by 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) , will qualify for both the day and night requirement , provided all other requirements are met . The day takeoffs and landings will NOT qualify for the night ( section ( b ) ) requirement though . Stanley E. Swank II Aviation Safety Inspector Springfield , IL FSDO , AGL-19 Other sources on the Internet agree with this interpretation : <URL> : ... your three takeoffs and landings to a full stop at night will also fulfill the recent flight experience requirements for day currency . <URL> .
I did a search on FlightAware for 747-400 aircraft in flight , and <URL> . A Qantas flight <URL> came up . I 'm assuming that for a 6500 Nm flight , at 13.5 hours , the aircraft is fairly heavy at takeoff . The flight data shows a departure at 03:28:33 , reaching an initial cruise level of FL300 at 03:52:59 , after a continuous climb . It was at cruise speed at this point , which gives a time of 25 minutes after takeoff . Comparing the coordinates of these two reporting points gives a distance of about 180 Nm , which from the track is pretty straight . If you just want to know when it reached a speed around that of cruise , this was about 10 minutes and 80 Nm earlier in the climb , when it reached a ground speed of about 480 knots .
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
On Nov 12 at about 1845 UTC , which would be about 1215 local on Nov. 13 , a Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , took off from BLR and did several touch-and-go 's at VOBG then returned to BLR . On Nov. 10 , around the same time , another Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , did the same thing . Taking off from BLR , doing touch-and-go 's at VOBG before returning to BLR . According to <URL> @pondlife found , VOBG airport is open for pilot training .
Landing distance is a function of the formula Any change that will increase kinetic energy will require longer landing distances . When we land , the kinetic energy needs to go somewhere . It can be converted into heat with the brakes , opposed with drag from the thrust reversers or deployed spoilers Higher landing speed will cause an increase kinetic energy that must be converted on landing and thus you will have a longer landing distance . Braking , thrust reverser or spoiler issues will increase the landing distance because they will not be as effective ( take more time ) in converting kinetic energy . In a hydraulic issue , most likely the manufacturer has chosen to fly the airplane at a speed greater than needed for a normal landing ( VREF + 20 ) and will most likely not have the ability to use normal braking . Most jets use hydraulic fluid to stop the brakes . In the jets I fly , without normal braking means we use the emergency brakes which are not routed through the anti-skid system so precaution must be taken to not skid the tires . This all adds up to a substantial landing distance penalty . Hare the landing distances for some airplanes . Learjet family : Factor of 3.15 Learjet 45 family : Factor of 2.2 Challenger 604 family : Factor of 1.7 ( braking ) times 1.8 ( airspeed ) for a total of 3.06
First , can a pilot without an HP endorsement act as safety pilot in an HP aircraft ? Since <URL> only requires a safety pilot to have category and class ratings , there 's no need to have any additional endorsements . That 's confirmed in <URL> : there is no regulatory requirement that a safety pilot have a high performance endorsement to act as safety pilot The same document says that safety pilots are " encouraged to be thoroughly familiar and current in the aircraft that is used " - which is great advice - but that 's it . As for the flight conditions ( IMC/VMC ) and rules ( IFR/VFR ) , I 'm not sure what you 're asking . Is either pilot IFR current ? If not , then the flight can only be VFR . <URL> might be relevant .
Aircraft carriers using <URL> ( the skyramp ) always need to maintain a speed of about 55kmph in order for the Aircrafts on them to take off . This is done to generate enough windspeed on the deck to assist the aircraft to take off . And STOBAR system already hampers the carrying capacity of aircraft , so for takeoff from a STOBAR carrier at rest , a further reduction in Takeoff weight of the aircraft would be required to generate enough lift for the aircraft to take off at such low speeds . This reduction in weight would depend on the Aircraft carrier and the aircraft as such and might create scenarios where this is entirely not possible . For Aircraft Carriers equipped with <URL> , the conventional steam piston drive which is used to catapult the aircraft provides approximately 95 MegaJoules of energy to accelerate the aircraft to speeds where it can takeoff safely . Hence the arguments stated about the STOBAR carriers can be sequentially applied to this class as well . But recent <URL> provides around 122 MegaJoules of energy to accelerate the aircraft . Given the extra amount of energy available to accelerate the aircraft at higher speeds , it is quite possible that it is going to be easier for the Aircraft to take off from a static aircraft carrier equipped with electromagnetic catapults when compared to the aircraft carriers equipped with convention steam piston catapults . But the exact details for the feasibility of this idea would be a matter of national interest and might not be available online . Also , one should not ignore the extra amount of stresses that an aircraft would have to face while taking off from a stationary aircraft carrier as it would have to accelerate to a higher speed at the same available length of the runway and hence this might prove determinant to the lifetime of the aircraft . Edit : Under research technologies such as <URL> , if implemented would also assist further in reducing the weight of the aircraft and hence make it easier for the aircraft to take off from carriers at much lower speeds .
Most airplanes have a POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) with a table on aircraft distances . <URL> .
The " QS " first stood for quarter share , according to the <URL> . Each aircraft will have multiple owners to help bring the cost down for the owner .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
Interesting question . <URL> mention only two reasons that controllers have to say " at your own risk " : The pilot " insists " on using a closed or unsafe runway ( 3-3-2 ) A helicopter takeoff or landing uses a non-movement area ( 3-11-2 , 3-11-6 ) Obviously Solar Impulse 2 is n't a helicopter , so that leaves the closed or unsafe runway reason . I do n't know for sure why the tower used the " own risk " phraseology - it would be great to hear from an actual controller - but some possibilities are : The runway was marked as closed ( for Solar Impulse 2 ) on the tower controller 's displays , and he said " at own risk " more or less out of habit There were vehicles on the runway , therefore it was " unsafe " Solar Impulse 2 is such an unusual aircraft that the controller felt he could n't contribute anything to the safety of the takeoff , so he was simply saying " go for it , I ca n't do much to help you " Of course , the problem with all those suggestions is that they should apply at all the airports , not just half of them . But I did find this quote from a controller on the AOPA forums ( members only ) : Although it 's normal for helicopters , I issued this " departure will be at your own risk " to an aircraft once . The runway was open , he was n't departing from a taxiway or anything like that . The problem was fog , where I could n't see the runway from the tower , and therefore I could n't determine whether the runway was actually " clear " for his takeoff . I do n't know if this is the right response in this situation or not , but I was a pretty new controller at the time , had n't faced this situation before , and figured the " at your own risk " was appropriate . That could have applied to the Solar Impulse situation : with other vehicles and personnel on the runway , the controller ca n't say it 's " clear " . And just like the controller on the forum , perhaps some of the controllers handling Solar Impulse 2 felt that the non-standard wording was appropriate for a very unusual situation . The other controllers who did issue a takeoff clearance presumably felt differently .
I 've always heard this referred to as a " greased landing " or a " greaser " , but never a " greaser landing " . My understanding is that it is referring to a landing that was so good that somebody must have greased the entire runway so that you did n't even feel the airplane touch down . If you 've ever tried to pick something up that has been well greased , then you know what they are referring to . It 's very slippery and slides right out of your hands no matter how hard you try .
end question
start question
What happens when you break the rules while flying ?
When you break the rules while flying , it falls into one of two categories : Only you know about it The FAA knows about it In either case , the very first thing you do is file a <URL> . You might ask , why does NASA care about airplanes ? They are acting as an uninterested 3rd party to your actions , and collate statistics from this information . If the FAA becomes aware of your actions , the presence of an ASRS form in many cases limits the action the FAA can take against you . It is always worth filling out and I have filled out a few myself . In the case the FAA knows about it , how do they know about it ? This typically happens when you are in radar control and do something wrong or are on the ground and do something wrong . Some examples of this are : Flight plan in the FMS is incorrect and you make a turn off of your cleared course . The controller will see this . You taxi incorrectly Runway incursion Climb / descend through your cleared altitude In most of these cases , the controller will just correct you . In cases that result in a loss of separation or a runway incursion , you may get a phone number from the controller to call when you land . Less commonly , something you do may be witnessed by an FAA inspector -- you buzzed the tower when he was on the ramp watching you . Or perhaps he watched you get into a plane and fly off without performing a pre-flight inspection . Perhaps you were ramp checked and something was n't right with you or the airplane . In all of the above cases , if you are able to file an ASRS form , do it . If you do something that may be severe and are a member of AOPA , call their legal team and discuss the situation . If the FAA responds to something they know about , it can range from a controller talking to you over the phone up to certificate action ( suspension , revoked ) to the infamous " 709 ride " , in which the FSDO administers a checkride and decides which , if any , ratings you keep and which you lose .
<URL> The short answer is this is n't something that 's realistically planned for because the chance of a double-failure of the redundant systems in question ( the two pilots ) is pretty unlikely , and many of the conditions that could lead to it would result in a catastrophic loss of the aircraft anyway . ( The most notable exception to that would be a loss of pressurization at altitude , in which case hopefully at least one of the pilots can get their oxygen mask on to make the emergency descent . ) The ATC/Airline system as a whole can theoretically deal with this sort of a double failure in a few different ways . The most common is finding an off-duty employee of the airline who is riding non-revenue ( dead-head , jumpseat , etc. ) to fill the role of an incapacitated crew member . This is of course predicated on whatever incapacitated the flight crew not affecting this other person . If no qualified personnel are available it may be possible to get an experienced instructor on the radio to " talk the plane down " , but that relies on having someone onboard who can ( a ) get access to the cockpit , and ( b ) at least figure out how to operate the radios to ask for help . " Talk-Down Landings " have happened <URL> on several occasions , but <URL> outside of <URL> and similar thought experiments .
If all ACM failed , an alarm would sound in the cockpit . And two messages would appear on the ECAM/EICAS ¹ . One indicating that the ACMs failed and the other indicating that cabin altitude ² is rising above desired level . Pilots would execute corresponding checklist , and the one for rising cabin altitude calls for rapid descent to 10,000 ft. That is the altitude where humans can breathe safely . If the problem is a hole in the fuselage , the oxygen masks would drop to allow breathing until the aircraft descends , and emergency descent ( with full spoilers ) would be done . But if it is just failed pressurization , the outflow valve would close and the pressure would only decrease slowly , so the aircraft would most likely descend before the masks would be needed and they would not release . Even normal rate of descent is usually sufficient in such case . If you 're flying above mountains , there are additional rules where to fly to avoid any terrain rising above 10,000 ft , which will be part of the flight plan . For example flying along the mountains of Peru , you 'd need to deviate toward the ocean during such descent . Now at lower altitude , the aircraft flies slower while burning more fuel , so it probably wo n't be able to make it to the original destination any more . However when planning flight and calculating the required fuel this is taken into account , so the aircraft has enough fuel that it can make it to one of suitably selected diversion airfields if it needs to descend to 10,000 ft at any point along the route . ¹ Modern aircraft have a display on which information about any problems and abnormal conditions is printed , which is called <URL> by Airbus and <URL> by Boeing . Older aircraft had large panels of warning lights . ² Pressure in the cabin is usually given as altitude at which that pressure occurs in standard atmosphere . Normal cabin altitude is 7,000 -- 8,000 ft , 10,000 ft is maximum safe altitude ( with generous safety margin ) . The oxygen masks fall out if the cabin altitude exceeds 14,000 ft.
The FAA is responsible for safety regulations and standards , not for code of conducts or courtesy regulations for interactions between flight attendants and passengers . Flight attendants are bound to certain behaviour only by their employer and their code of conduct , additionally to any national law that prohibits insulting others or harming them otherwise .
You have a few questions here so I will address them independently . But first off in a more general sense you should understand that everything on an airplane is generally designed with a <URL> this helps to ensure that if something fails it fails in a way to create the least adversity to flight . However there are event scenarios where multiple units fail in such a way that an adverse condition can be encountered . Generally ( if you read accident reports ) these can be avoided if an emergency landing is executed earlier on . What happens if the GAS fail , if for instance two ailerons get stuck in an extreme position ? Or maybe even worse : imagine a sensor failure that produces two opposite extremes on each wing , such that e.g. the left wing have all its ailerons in the up position , and the right wing ailerons in the down position . In this case the plane still , to an <URL> . I do n't know for the Airbus , but generally speaking all systems like this have a manual override and can be disconnected . So this is implying that the system is somehow stuck on and not responding . It should be noted that in the Airbus this system does not independently actuate the flight control surfaces and most likely is bused as input to the fly by wire system . On that note a sensor failure generally does not cause extreme inputs but instead causes no input . Most things like this are <URL> ( so that you can figure out which sensor is bad ) and if all are providing inputs that disagree the system usually disconnects and becomes inop . So to create the case you ask about you would need to have 3 independent sensors provide the same erroneous input which is highly unlikely . Could this be fatal ? Its hard to say , but generally speaking no , the direct failure of a single system would not be fatal . Are there procedures for this in some checklist ? More than likely but I do n't have access to the official checklists so I cant say for sure .
You raise an interesting question , and I assume you refer to flying near the poles using a lightly equipped general aviation aircraft . Airliners or jets usually have inertial navigation equipment that is working autonomously and will not be affected by pole proximity . Several procedures could be taken in a general aviation aircraft to improve situational awareness : You need indeed to deslave the HSI from the magnetic slaving transmitter in order to use it as a directional gyro manually slaved ( see <URL> ) . The directional gyro will have to be realigned manually regularly to compensate for precession ( astronomical precession is 15 ° / hour at the pole , to the right at North pole , to the left at South pole ) . Do n't forget it is still possible to use astronomical navigation if you are in VFR conditions and able to see stars ( at night ) or the Sun ( during day ) . This will not be very accurate but a precision better than 5 to 10 degrees could be reached without needing a sextant . Computing your location only from star positions is a complex operation , but it is rather easy to find out aircraft true heading thanks to the Sun or major stars relative position from aircraft nose . You could use this heading to manually realign your unslaved HSI/directional gyro . Regarding GPS , it is strongly advised to check in advance GPS coverage near the pole using RAIM prediction function , either from the onboard GPS or using web servers . This will allow you to check the coverage should be assured according GPS satellite locations relative to your position ( an outage is always possible ) . When flying in such remote locations I always bring with me a portable standalone GPS unit , in addition to panel mounted GPS . Standard navigation ( keeping track of position thanks to heading and clock ) of course should be used and near coasts you could cross-check your computed position using landmarks , but above ice caps you will have few or no landmarks . If you are lucky enough to have an inertial navigation platform on board , your position will be kept rather accurately independently of any other input , with an error of the order of 10 NM after 7 hours of flight . The main issue you will encounter in a general aviation aircraft flying near the pole is their endurance is often limited , regulatory fuel reserves are higher than usual , airports are few and far apart , alternates may close quickly due to quickly changing weather conditions . This means that when you fly or are ferrying an aircraft in those regions , you could definitely not afford to get lost or not to be sure of your position .
The short answer is that it 's up to you as PIC to make that determination ; the FAA has no clear definition apart from what a " reasonable and prudent " pilot would do . The FAA issued <URL> on exactly this question in 2009 , here 's the closest thing to a definition that they give ( my emphasis throughout ) : " Known icing conditions " involve instead circumstances where a reasonable pilot would expect a substantial likelihood of ice formation on the aircraft based upon all information available to that pilot . While " known icing conditions " are not defined by regulation , the term has been used in legal proceedings involving violations of FAA safety regulations that relate to in - flight icing . The National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) has held on a number of occasions that known icing conditions exist when a pilot knows or reasonably should know about weather reports in which icing conditions are reported or forecast They go on to say that the PIC is responsible for determining the likelihood of icing conditions : Any assessment of known icing conditions is necessarily fact-specific . Permutations on the type , combination , and strength of meteorological elements that signify or negate the presence of known icing conditions are too numerous to describe exhaustively in this letter . Whether a pilot has operated into known icing conditions contrary to any limitation will depend upon the total information available to the pilot , and his or her proper analysis of that information in evaluating the risk of encountering known icing conditions during a particular operation . The pilot should consider factors such as the route of flight , flight altitude , and time of flight when making such an evaluation Note that even visible moisture and freezing temps are n't automatically considered to be known icing conditions : The FAA does not necessarily consider the mere presence of clouds ( which may only contain ice crystals ) or other forms of visible moisture at temperatures at or below freezing to be conducive to the formation of known ice or to constitute known icing conditions . The specific regulations mentioned in the interpretation are 14 CFR 91.9 ( compliance with the operating manual ) , 91.13 ( no careless or reckless operation ) and 91.103 ( become familiar with all information relevant to the flight ) . Those regulations would be the basis for any hypothetical enforcement action : If the composite information indicates to a reasonable and prudent pilot that he or she will be operating the aircraft under conditions that will cause ice to adhere to the aircraft along the proposed route and altitude of flight , then known icing conditions likely exist . If the pilot operates the aircraft in known icing conditions contrary to the requirements of § 91.9 ( a ) , the FAA may take enforcement action . So the bottom line is : you 're PIC and it 's your decision whether it 's safe to fly or not because there are far too many variables for anyone else to decide . But personally I think it would be difficult for any pilot to say that it was " reasonable and prudent " to fly a non-FIKI aircraft in an area where forecasts , AIRMETs or PIREPS indicated icing .
It has happened <URL> What then happened is that the plane just went on until out of fuel after which it will glide down and skid to a stop ( pilot survived ) . This is assuming there is no obstacle in the way . Another example is the <URL> , a fighter pilot eject and the plane still under power just kept going in a straight line and " landed " in a field . A more deadly example is the <URL> . A mistake in the pressure regulation setting let the plane become unpressurized while climbing to cruise altitude . Both pilots lost consciousness and the plane 's autopilot followed its programmed path following the waypoints and ending up in a holding patter until it ran out of fuel and crashed into the ground . Survival depends on luck with obstacles , whether the plane is properly trimmed and which order the engines flame out in , asymmetric flame-out may result in a spin .
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
Probably the best thing to do is to start looking for your reference as you start to lose the runway under your nose . Hopefully at that point you 'll be low enough to identify something that will stand out from the crowd all the way down to the ground . You may also favor choosing something closer in from the horizon at 2000AGL , to ensure you do n't lose it behind the horizon as you descend . For me , flying out of Addison , it 's pretty easy ; the runway faces downtown Addison about 3 miles south-southeast ( a row of corporate headquarters buildings along the Dallas North Tollway ) which is far enough out to line up on but close enough and tall enough you 'll see it right up until you pass the numbers . Flying into a more rural strip , you might have more trouble identifying a good reference that you can keep in sight as you descend . Some potential issues with this general strategy : Your reference point will lie well beyond the runway by design . Do n't fixate on it ; that will cause you to subconsciously stay higher than your intended glide path as you fly toward your reference , potentially overshooting the runway . Your reference is a single point . That point and your aircraft make a line , which you want to be colinear with the runway . But , your aircraft is a moving point , so it 's not necessarily true that you 'll be in line with the runway even if your nose is on the reference point . Instead of one reference point , I 'd pick two ( even if they 're not perfectly in line ) and focus on keeping both reference points steady relative to each other . If you ca n't see the runway , you may not be able to see surrounding visual aids like the glide slope indicators , which are just as important as staying lined up . Addison 's PAPI lights are off to the right when approaching runway 15 , which is stupid as my instructor can see them perfectly while I 'm blind unless I nose down every few seconds to keep track ( not an option without flaps ) . While I would n't rely on it completely in VMC , if you have a VOR receiver aboard and the runway has an instrument approach , you can tune into the ILS frequency and use the " cross " alongside visual references to manage your approach during the time the runway is hidden from view . The ILS system is pretty well-standardized , while the visual references at each airport are not , so if you become accustomed to an ILS-augmented visual landing , the basic procedure can be applied to any airport . The reasons I would n't rely totally on it include : You 're not instrument-rated ( unless you are ) so flying with your head in the gauges can easily kill you . Glance at it to ensure you 're where you think you are , but rely on your visual references whenever you can . You 're not flying a pure instrument approach under IFR , so you still have to " see and avoid " even if you have tower staff spacing traffic around you ( unless you ask for a " pop-up " instrument approach , effectively switching from VFR to IFR ) . ILS availability/accuracy is not guaranteed in daytime VMC because the ILS critical areas are not required to be protected during these times . If you tell the tower what you 're doing , they can advise ground traffic to use the ILS holds , but there may already be traffic in an ILS critical area and if so there 's little the tower can do . ILS may contradict visual indicators to varying degrees , because the ILS glideslope is projected from a different point along the runway than the PAPI/VASI array . You therefore should n't expect the ILS cross to be perfectly centered along the same path that gives you two white PAPI lights . Radio-based ILS is n't available at every airstrip . In such cases you simply must fly a purely visual approach , and having relied on ILS to give you the proper glide slope instead of developing your sight picture will prove to be a crutch in such situations .
Because <URL> Seriously though , the manifold pressure measures how much the engine is able to reduce the pressure between throttle and inlet valve by sucking air into the cylinder . When you apply carb heat the air gets routed over a heat exchanger that uses some of the excess heat from the exhaust system to heat up the intake air , however the reason it becomes less dense , is because the pressure stays the same . If you look at the so called ideal gas law , you 'll notice that pressure is a function of density and temperature , if you have a closed system , where the density can not change , increasing the temperature would indeed increase pressure . This is not a closed system however , so the pressure actually stays more or less the same and the density decreases , and it 's not the reason for the manifold pressure increase . The thinner air leaves the engine with less oxygen to burn and thus it produces less power , the RPM drops , causing the engine to " suck " less air into the cylinder , this gives the air more time to sneak passed the throttle , and the manifold pressure rises . For the same reason the manifold pressure rises ( slightly ) when you reduce the RPM for cruise . Any reduction in RPM , for whatever reason -- engine damage for example -- as long as the throttle does n't move ( or if you have carb ice , which has essentially the same effect as closing the throttle ) , your manifold pressure will actually rise . Remember , it seems counter-intuitive , but the engine is fighting a battle with the throttle , trying to keep the manifold pressure down by sucking the air out , while the throttle is trying to increase the pressure back to atmospheric by letting air in . When the throttle is anything but wide open , the situation looks like this ( image borrowed from the linked article ) <URL> It 's related to the fact that the manifold pressure gauge , when the engine is stopped , will read ambient pressure , i.e. 29.92 inHg on a standard day at sea level , which is usually interpreted as " full throttle " , it does n't matter how the throttle is positioned . So it 's not really showing how much fuel/air mix you 're shoving into the engine . In fact , we 're not shoving at all , the engine literally sucks it into the cylinder as the piston moves out of the way during the intake stroke . In this particular case with the engine off , it just means that enough air was able to sneak by the throttle and equalize the pressure . It is not flowing nearly fast enough to equalize the pressure as soon as the engine is running though .
I find that virtually all the passengers I 've let fly for the first time were already so scared of the controls that no " safety briefing " of that sort was necessary . Do n't fight me on the controls . If I say let go , let go immediately . If you suspect there 's even a remote chance of either of these problems , maybe you should n't be letting this person fly your plane . Do n't move any of the controls very rapidly . Do n't move any of the controls to their limits . In most small airplanes without hydraulics , it takes quite a bit of force to deflect any of the controls rapidly to their limits . And as soon as your first-time passenger starts to push on the controls , they 're going to feel increasingly strong g-forces as the plane responds . For first-timers , this is usually a pretty intimidating feel . If someone is pushing too hard , they 're going to feel it , and almost certainly back off or let go entirely . " Positive transfer of control " using 3-step acknowledgment such as " You have the controls " / " I have the controls " / " You have the controls " is a good idea for flight training , or for flights with 2 pilots taking turns at the controls ; but in my opinion it 's not necessary for a joyride with a friend . As the PIC , and the only licensed pilot in the cockpit , you need to be monitoring the situation at all times anyway . If you decide the situation requires you to reassert control , you can simply ask them to release the controls . If you ca n't trust the person to do this promptly , you probably should n't be letting them fly your plane anyway ; a preflight safety briefing is n't going to solve that . To be as safe as possible , you can take the following steps before allowing your passenger to fly ( some of these you already stated ) : Select a location away from controlled airspace , busy airway/routes , or other special-use areas like drop zones . ( Optionally , if you do n't mind the extra radio chatter ) Tune a nearby ATC radar facility ( approach/center ) and request radar advisories . Tell them you 'll be maneuvering in a certain area . Climb to a sufficient altitude to allow good clearance from all terrain and obstacles ( antennas , etc. ) , and to allow enough altitude for recovery if your passenger should somehow manage to stall or enter a steep dive or something . Trim for straight &amp; level flight at $ V_A $ for your current weight ( lower than the gross-weight $ V_A $ you get out of the book ) . Make a set of clearing turns and scan for any traffic in the area . Give your systems a once-over and verify you have sufficient fuel . Hand over the controls ! You did n't specifically ask about this , but I 've flown with a lot of first-time passengers , people who have never been in an airplane . Both children and adults . Many of them are understandably quite nervous . Here are some things I try to do to make it as easy , fun , relaxed and stress-free as possible for them : Give them a simplified , plain English description of the flight . Tell them exactly what you plan to do and what order things will happen in . E.g. First we 're going to start the engine . I 'll get on the radio and get clearance from the control tower . Then we 'll taxi out to the runway and stop for a few minutes while I go through some checks to make sure the plane 's in good shape . Then we 'll take off and head out to the east to do some sightseeing . While we 're up there , if you 're comfortable and would like to try your hand at the controls , we can do that . When we 're done with that we 'll turn around and head back to the airport , land , and taxi back in . Do n't use fancy words or terms that a non-pilot would n't understand . Help them enter the airplane . Show them how to open and shut the door . Show them how to buckle and unbuckle their seat belt . Ask them if they have any questions . Do your normal preflight safety briefing , again using simplified English and avoiding pilot terms . Limit it to points that are relevant to a passenger ( avoiding the controls , staying quiet if asked , opening the door ) . They do NOT need to hear about what you 're going to do if you have an engine failure on climbout . If this is a normal part of your preflight / before takeoff briefing ( as it should be ) , say it to yourself mentally , not out loud . During the flight : Talk your way through everything you 're doing . When you 're ready to do your run-up , tell them : I 'm about to run the engine up to power to make sure everything 's running smoothly . I 'm holding the brakes so we 're not going to go anywhere , but the engine will get pretty loud for a minute . When you 're doing your magneto / prop governor checks : Now I 'm going to do some things to the engine to make sure it 's running right . It 's going to make some pretty funny noises , but it 's perfectly normal . Talking through everything accomplishes a few goals : Avoids startling the passenger with something unexpected . A prop governor check sounds really bad to somebody who knows about engines but nothing about planes . A
I do n't agree with the strict enforcement of this rule by the DGCA ( but I 'm not an airline pilot so I think my opinion does n't really count on this matter ) . But there is logic behind the ban - many safety-critical actions are completed before the plane has left the gate . Such actions include calculating takeoff speeds , briefing the departure procedures , and completing various checklists . Having people in the cockpit could prove to be a big distraction when trying to complete these tasks , particularly when the time is limited anyway such as on a short turnaround . Making a mistake before leaving the gate can definitely end in disaster . Take <URL> in 2009 . The crew entered an incorrect takeoff weight into the system . As a result there was n't enough thrust to rotate and the A340 barely cleared the airport fence .
An airplane can slow down and reduce its speed while in flight . The easiest way to do so is to reduce the amount of thrust that the engines are producing . This will produce an almost immediate reduction of the airspeed , especially if the plane is maintaining the same altitude . There are also devices called <URL> and <URL> that can be further used to reduce speed . These , however , are never1 used in normal , level flight by passenger2 aircraft and are normally only used to reduce speed during the descent and landing phases of the aircraft3 . If an airplane reduces its speed too much , it will of course stall and start dropping precipitously , at which time the airspeed usually also increases again . The slowest speed an aircraft can maintain at a given altitude without stalling is listed in its <URL> However in the scenario you mentioned ( obstacles ahead ) , it 's usually easiest to simply fly around the obstacle . 1 : <URL> 2 : The situation is different in military aircrafts , you can see the approaching Su-27 using its airbrake in <URL> 3 : The wheels of most aircraft also have brakes , similar to those found on automobiles . Obviously these can only be used when the plane is touching the ground . Lowering retracted landing gear will also increase drag . There are also <URL> on some aircraft that are used in the final stages of landing . Use of thrust reversers during flight can be <URL> although some older aircraft ( including the C-17A ) were designed to use thrust reversal to scrub speed in-flight . Finally , some gliders and larger aircraft have <URL> to help slow them down , for example for use on short runways .
According to <URL> , you can request an extension online through the FAA 's <URL> . You also can look up your current status here : <URL> In my case , this was updated about a week before my card arrived in the mail . You can also see what date 's submissions they have processed here : <URL>
I 'd recommend reviewing Chart 5-23 from the PA-44 POH - Climb performance one engine operating - gear up for specific numbers based on aircraft weight and atmospherics . If you 're not seeing a positive rate of climb at your best rate of climb , single engine airspeed , then you 're not going to see it at the best angle of climb airspeed single engine either . By definition , Vyse is the best rate of climb that you 're going to see on a single engine ; any other airspeed , including Vxse , is going to give you a lower rate of climb , or greater rate of descent if a positive rate is not possible . And attempting to acquire and hold Vxse you 're getting close to the reverse side of the power curve , combined with ever decreasing rudder authority , it would be easy to have the aircraft drop below Vmc and depart from controlled flight .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
When sitting at the exit you need to be the first one out of the plane . Basically when the emergency is declared and the captain says , Evacuate , Evacuate , you go to your door , check the outside for fires . Then you open the door en be the first one out of the door . You then put as much distant between you and the plane as fast as possible . Or you assist on the outside of the plane by making sure people create enough distance between themselves and the plane . What could with hold them from sitting there is the responsibility to get the door open . Or the fact that they enter a shock and will be unable to move during an emergency .
On typical Boeing throttles , <URL> but similar on all Boeings , the reverse thrust levers must be lifted to engage reverse . In order to do this , the thrust levers must be in the idle gate and can not be advanced until the reverse thrust levers as stowed . The reverse levers engage locks in the thrust levers . <URL> , at 2:50 , you can see the thrust levers being retarded to idle , then the reverse thrust levers being pulled up . At 3:22 they are stowed . <URL> , you can see that the Airbus system is very similar .
The most common failure leading to depressurization I 've personally seen is a pack/air cycle machine failure . The equipment that takes pressurized bleed air from the engine , cools and expands it . I 've seen it happen two ways . 1 ) The aircraft is dispatched with one pack on MEL and the second pack fails in flight or 2 ) The aircraft is flying at high altitude , 1 pack fails , the other pack switches to high flow mode and fails soon after . Pack failure is by far the most common I 've seen . But have also seen a couple failed fuselage skins and a few burst PAX windows . Typically door leaks are enough to be noisy as heck , but not depressurize the aircraft .
end question
start question
What is different between a Cat IIIA , Cat IIIB , and Cat IIIC ILS approach ?
ICAO and FAA CAT III definitions A CAT III operation is a precision approach at lower than CAT II minima . Sub-categories are listed below . A category III A approach is a precision instrument approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 100ft ( 30m ) and a runway visual range not less than 700ft ( 200m ) . A category III B approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 50ft ( 15m ) and a runway visual range less than 700ft ( 200m ) , but not less than 150ft ( 50m ) . A category III C approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height and no runway visual range limitation . * I 've omitted the JAA definitions . Source <URL> . FAA Reference Material The below links are to comprehensive FAA publications covering the areas as titled . <URL> . <URL> . Thanks <URL> for the comment with links to these documents .
Here 's an engine with old combustor cans : <URL> Here 's a single annular combustor : <URL> And in cross section : <URL> And now here 's a dual annular combustor ( DAC ) ( <URL> ) in cross section : <URL> See how it 's like one ring ( or donut ) inside another ring . <URL> " like an annular combustor , the DAC is a continuous ring without separate combustion zones around the radius . The difference is that the combustor has two combustion zones around the ring ; a pilot zone and a main zone . The pilot zone acts like that of a single annular combustor , and is the only zone operating at low power levels . At high power levels , the main zone is used as well , increasing air and mass flow through the combustor . "
<URL> is the force or wind generated behind a jet engine , particularly on or before takeoff when high/full power is set , but also when the aircraft is taxiing . When an object moves through air ( or some other medium , e.g. a spoon through nutella ) , air is disturbed . This disturbance or <URL> is known as <URL> . It can also be called <URL> . The difference is that jet blast is only because of engines . Jet wash or prop wash or wake turbulence is because the airplane moves through air . If Mr Kevin Fast runs at say 100 mph doing this ( see picture below ) , you can notice significant wake turbulence , although the engines are off and there is no jet blast .
SOIA ( Simultaneous Offset Instrument Approaches ) allow airports with parallel runways that are 750 to 3000 feet apart to conduct ( almost ) simultaneous approaches to the two runways . At an airport , one runway uses the ILS PRM approach , while the other runway uses an offset LDA PRM approach ( with glideslope ) . SOIA refers to the LDA PRM approach , where another aircraft is flying the ILS PRM approach ahead . PRM stands for Precision Runway Monitor , which is a high-update radar system allowing for " equivalent " safety with reduced margins . For a PRM approach is conducted , there must be two frequencies per runway : a primary frequency for both the transmission and receipt of instructions a " monitor " frequency , only for ATC to transmit on The reason for the " monitor " frequency is just in case the primary frequency is blocked and breakout instructions have to be provided . The tower controller will communicate to aircraft on both frequencies , both in normal PRM operations and when providing breakout instructions . There is also a " monitor " controller that ensures that the two aircraft never get dangerously close together -- if such a situation occurs , the " monitor " controller overrides the tower controller on both frequencies to allow for immediate breakout instructions to be given . Of the two apporaches , the more interesting of the two is the offset LDA PRM approach . In the LDA PRM approach , aircraft fly an approach course that is 2.5 to 3 degrees offset from the runway heading , following the glideslope until the MAP ( this course does not meet up with the runway threshold ) , at which point the pilot should proceed visually to the runway . <URL> The MAP on a LDA PRM approach is 3000 feet away from the ILS approach course , meaning aircraft have to manoeuvre towards the extended runway centreline to be stable by 500 feet -- the less spacing between the two runways , the more aircraft will have to turn . This does mean that it is less suitable to larger aircraft , due to the manoeuvring required at higher speeds ( than other aircraft ) , though most SOIA approaches are designed for larger aircraft as well . Before reaching the MAP , the pilot must have have : the runway in sight ; the aircraft on the adjacent ILS PRM approach in sight ; and notified ATC that traffic is in sight . This means that the aircraft on the ILS PRM approach should be ahead of the other aircraft . To allow time for visual contact , aircraft should be clear of cloud before the MAP , which is taken into account when deciding on the minimum cloud ceiling allowed for the approach . The NTZ ( No Transgression Zone ) is a 2000 foot wide area between the two approach courses which aircraft must not enter at any time . ATC would immediately issue breakout instructions to both aircraft if an aircraft breaches the NTZ , as there would be very little horizontal separation between the two aircraft . [ The FAA AIM ] [ 3 ] states that : In the unlikely event that an aircraft " blunders " off its course and makes a worst case turn of 30 degrees toward the adjacent final approach course , closing speeds of 135 feet per second could occur that constitute the need for quick reaction . Special training requirements vary from country to country . In the US , SOIA special training requirements are : Parts 121/129/135 : operator training as agreed to by FAA and educational video Part 91 transport category : read about PRM approaches in AIM , video Part 91 other : read about PRM and SOIA approaches in AIM , video An example of a SOIA approach is the SFO runway 28R LDA PRM approach :
Generally speaking a checklist is an actual list of items to check , and a flow is a pattern of movement across the aircraft controls ( switches , dials , etc. ) which will accomplish some subset of the items on a checklist . A flow should be essentially " muscle memory " for a pilot and performed by rote , where a checklist may be more detailed and include more specific guidance . As you can probably tell flows and checklists are closely related ( with flows usually being derived from checklists ) . The two are complimentary tools that are used together : A pilot will follow a flow , and then verify that the required items have been completed using the checklist . In larger/more complicated aircraft it 's not possible to fully memorize some of the checklists , so flows are used to accomplish the " red box " immediate action items before proceeding to the full checklist . As a simple example , consider the engine power loss flow &amp; checklist for a Piper Cherokee . Engine Power Loss Flow ( Red Arrow &amp; Numbers ) Mixture ( Set appropriately - usually " Rich " ) Throttle ( Set appropriately ) Carb Heat / Alternate Air ( On ) Magnetos ( Both ) Electric Fuel Pump ( On ) Primer ( In &amp; Locked ) Fuel Selector ( On a tank that has fuel ) Manufacturer 's Engine Power Loss Checklist ( Blue Numbers ) Fuel Selector - Switch to a tank containing fuel . Electric Fuel Pump - On Mixture - Rich Carb Heat - On Engine Gauges - Check for an indication of the cause of power loss Primer - Check Locked . If no fuel pressure is indicated check tank selector position to be sure it is on a tank containing fuel . Ignition Switch - " Left " then " Right " then back to " BOTH . " Throttle and Mixture - Different settings . ( This may restore power if problem is too rich or too lean a mixture , or a partial fuel system restriction . ) Try another fuel tank . ( Water in the fuel could take some time to be used up , and allowing the engine to windmill may restore power . If power loss is due to water , fuel pressure indications will be normal . ) <URL> In this example the flow accomplishes nearly all the checklist items , but it does so moving over the panel in one direction . As a practical matter the flow is accomplished by just moving your hand along the bottom of the panel : " Push the mixture . Push the throttle . Pull the carb heat . Twist the mag key . Flip all the switches UP ( on ) . Pull the primer and make sure it does n't move . Move the fuel selector lever to the other tank . " Completing the flow takes less than 10 seconds and can be done with one hand while your other hand is pitching for best glide speed . The manufacturer 's checklist for an engine power loss moves around the panel in a more haphazard way , but it also adds a few items ( checking the engine gauges &amp; fuel pressure indication ) , and provides more specific guidance on possible causes like fuel contamination ( water in the fuel ) &amp; how to deal with them . These items could be important if the memory items from the flow do n't restore engine power , assuming you have time ( altitude ) to spend troubleshooting them .
I think you 're overlooking the primary reason pilots fly instrument approaches : the conditions do not permit flight by visual reference . The fact that a PAPI provides vertical guidance is more or less useless if you ca n't see it . Most ILS approaches involve a descent of at least 1500 ' from glideslope intercept . If you break out from the clouds at ILS minimums , you can be as low as 200 ' above the runway surface ; at 3 ° , that 's around 3/4 miles from the touchdown zone and the PAPI . It 's highly unlikely that the PAPI would be visible prior to that point , meaning the approach would be made with purely lateral guidance .
When an aircraft has been given a clearance to land on a runway , that runway is exclusively reserved for the landing aircraft . ( Except for LAHSO and " land after " operations , where only part of the runway is reserved for the landing aircraft ) . That means that no other aircraft or vehicle should be on that runway . In this case , clearly something went unplanned . Either the crossing aircraft was not given permission to cross , the landing aircraft no clearance to land , or ATC mistakenly cleared both the landing aircraft and the crossing aircraft to access the runway . Pilots should always check if the runway they are accessing is safe , and in this case the crew of the landing aircraft did apparently observe the incursion and aborted their landing . The crew of the crossing aircraft noticed the landing aircraft a bit late , but you hear their engines spool up as well as they cross . The sound of the go-around thrust arrives second later due to the difference in distance . The crossing aircraft seems to be taxiing toward the rising sun so they may have been blinded and missed the fact that they were crossing a runway .
For references , I 've used <URL> ; <URL> ; <URL> ; &amp; the <URL> . The wiki is a general side-stick discussion listing ( some ) aircraft that have side-stick fly-by-wire ( FBW ) technology , but does not go into active vs. passive . Generally speaking , if you have used a joystick on your PC to fly Microsoft 's Flight Simulator , such as <URL> , you 've used an active side-stick . According to the Patent Application cited above , the patent is for an Active Side-Stick technology described as " pilot flight control stick haptic feedback mechanism provides variable force feedback to the pilot flight control stick . " One of the ' issues ' with the current passive side-stick technology ( approved for use ) used on aircraft such as Airbus ' A380 is that there is no tactile feedback when using the side-sticks , such as a pilot would feel using an old-style column or yoke . In a Cessna 172 , for instance , when you pull/push/turn the yoke , there is actual tactile feel , if you pull back strongly in-flight , you 'll ' feel ' the forces exerted against the airflow . Passive side-sticks have none of this ' feel ' . Active SS technology attempts to replicate the forces on the joystick . Active SS technology is currently used on most miltary aircraft using side-sticks , but does not appear to have yet made its way into civilian airliners . ( If I 've gotten stuff wrong , I 'll remove/fix this answer , as I am not an airline pilot and have never had the opportunity to fly military hardware . )
Because many copter autopilots are capable of flying a Cat I ILS to 200AGL , and then descending on autopilot into a hover at a pre-determined altitude above the runway . The pilot can then descend down to the runway surface without any forward visibility . The radar altimeter is used to judge distance to the ground . Because of the unique capabilities of helicopters and their autopilots , Cat II and Cat III are superfluous .
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
ICAO and FAA CAT III definitions A CAT III operation is a precision approach at lower than CAT II minima . Sub-categories are listed below . A category III A approach is a precision instrument approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 100ft ( 30m ) and a runway visual range not less than 700ft ( 200m ) . A category III B approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 50ft ( 15m ) and a runway visual range less than 700ft ( 200m ) , but not less than 150ft ( 50m ) . A category III C approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height and no runway visual range limitation . * I 've omitted the JAA definitions . Source <URL> . FAA Reference Material The below links are to comprehensive FAA publications covering the areas as titled . <URL> . <URL> . Thanks <URL> for the comment with links to these documents .
First allow me to give a quick introduction to RNAV and RNP before geting to SAAAR / RNP AR . Area Navigation ( RNAV ) is a method of instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation that allows an aircraft to fly on any desired path within the coverage of referenced navigation beacons , rather than navigating directly to and from the beacons . In other words , waypoints can be defined at arbitrary locations and paths betweens those points ( and traditional navigation beacons as well ) can be defined . RNAV routes are coded into the navigation database by ARINC 424 path-terminators . Whilst RNAV routes can be designed in such a way that the lateral path is strictly described , in general the lateral path has a quite some freedom due to floating leg types ( e.g. turn at altitude , fly heading etc ) and wiggle room for the aircraft to negotiate the turns . When the route is described only by TF ( track to fix ) and RF ( radius to fix ) path terminators , the lateral path is fully fixed . These fixed lateral paths allow procedure designers , for example , to design approaches through mountain valleys down to the runway . RNAV defines a 95 % accuracy bounds . For example , RNAV 1 requires the aircraft to be within 1 NM from the path centreline 95 % of the time . The route designer will ensure a 2 NM obstacle free zone around the path in such a case . Note that RNAV provides no assurance against exceeding the 2 NM zone . There is no automated system monitoring required . Potentially causes of deviations between the path intended by the procedure designer and the actual flown path can be grouped into three categories : First , there is the Path Definition Error . This is caused by database coding mismatch with the original path design . Second , there is the Path Steering Error , caused by the combination of display inaccuracies on the Navigation Display and the inability of the pilot or the autoflight system to stay exactly on path ( Flight Technical Error ) . Third , there is Position Estimation Error , which is the difference between the position of the aircraft estimated by the navigation system and the true position . It is not unthinkable that while normally ( 95 % of the time ) the aircraft will fly within e.g. 1 NM of the intended centre line , there are cases that the aircraft will exceed the 1NM by far , possibly even busting the 2 NM obstacle free zone . That could potentially ruin your day if it happens in a mountain valley . This is where RNP comes in . RNP ( Required Navigation Performance ) is basically RNAV with added protection . For example , RNP 1 again defines a 1NM accuracy for 95 % of the time , but it also offers 99.999 % assurance that it will not exceed the 2NM . It will raise an alert if the 2 NM value will potentially be exceeded . So in addition to what RNAV offers , it includes a system monitoring function that will detect navigation errors and alerts for them . The RNP value alway gives the 95 % accuracy , the 99.999 % assurance ( integrity ) limit is always at twice that value . So RNP 0.3 means that the aircraft has to stay within 0.3 NM of the designed path centreline 95 % of the time . And if it exceeds the 0.6 NM threshold , an alert will be raised with 99.999 % certainty . RNP systems therefore require a system monitoring function . To ensure that the RNP values are met , each of the three error sources mentioned earlier must be under control . For RNP values down to 1 NM that is not much of a challenge . Standard procedures and equipment are deemed to be sufficient here . ( of course the required RNP values must be met by the Actual Navigation Performance ) If an approach requires tighter limits , such as RNP 0.3 or 0.15 , then special authorization is required . This is where SAAAR comes in ( Special Aircraft and Aircrew Authorization Required ) , now renamed to RNP AR ( RNP Authorization Required ) . RNP AR routes only make use of TF and RF leg types to fully fix the lateral path . RF legs are not supported by all navigation systems by default . To get authorization for RNP AR , the aircraft needs to comply with the applicable functional and performance requirements , the crew needs to be trained and lot 's of documentation must be maintained . Basically proof must be provided that all of the three error terms are under strict control . In a sense it is somewhat similar to ILS CAT III approval . References : <URL> describes a means of compliance for RNP AR <URL> gives a good explanation of RNAV and RNP
An adiabatic expansion lowers temperature , an adiabatic compression raises temperature , analogous to the way a refrigerator and an air conditioner work . Or a bicycle pump , it gets quite hot while you 're pumping air . A shock wave compresses air - at supersonic speeds the object travels faster than the pressure information , and when the object arrives at a bit of air it compresses suddenly in a shock wave , with corresponding higher temperature .
Although the 737 has grown over the years , the 737 and 757 remain in different size classes . Both models can be <URL> certified , although the 757 is more often used in long flights . At the time the 757 was introduced ( in the 80 's ) , the 737 classic series was current . For the <URL> : Passengers : 146 Length : 119 feet Wingspan : 95 feet Wing area : 1135 sq feet MTOW : 138,000 lb Takeoff distance : 8000 feet Range : 2160 nm Thrust : 2x 23,500 lbf Max fuel : 5,311 US gal The 757 was significantly larger . For the <URL> : Passengers : 200 Length : 155 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 255,000 lb Takeoff distance : 6500 feet Range : 4100 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lbf Max fuel : 11,489 US gal The 757 is about 35 feet longer , seats about 50 more passengers , and flies about 2,000 nm further ( roughly twice as far ) . The extra range is due to the larger wingspan and longer fuselage , being able to carry more fuel . For this reason , the 757 is used on longer and busier routes , while the 737 is used on shorter , less busy routes . In the 90 's , both models were updated . The 737 was significantly upgraded , including new wings and a new engine , which increased its efficiency . The 737 NG series eventually included the <URL> model , currently the largest 737 model . Passengers : 180 Length : 138 feet Wingspan : 117 feet Wing area : 1341 sq feet MTOW : 187,700 lb Takeoff distance : 9843 feet Range : 3235 nm Thrust : 2x 28,400 lbf Max fuel : 7,837 US gal The <URL> was also introduced . This was a stretched version of the 757-200 . Passengers : 243 Length : 178 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 272,500 lb Takeoff distance : 7800 feet Range : 3595 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lb Max fuel : 11,489 US gal Although the more efficiency gains of the new 737 bring the range up to nearly that of the 757 , the 757 remains significantly larger .
LPV , LNAV/VNAV , and Baro VNAV are considered to be an ' Approach with Vertical Guidance ( APV ) ' . These types of approaches are differentiated from ' Precision ' approaches ( ILS , PAR , etc. ) in the <URL> ( Section 5-4-5 , Paragraph 7 ) .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
From " Smart Cockpit " <URL> ( PDF ! ) <URL> AFDS Status Annunciation The following AFDS status annunciations are displayed just above the PFD attitude display : • FLT DIR ( the flight director is ON and the autopilots are not engaged ) • A/P ( the autopilots are engaged ) • LAND 3 ( three autopilots are engaged and operating normally for an automatic landing ) • LAND 2 ( AFDS redundancy is reduced ; in some cases , only two autopilots are available ) • NO AUTOLAND ( the AFDS is unable to make an automatic landing ) . With a LAND 3 indication , the autopilot system level of redundancy is such that a single fault can not prevent the autopilot system from making an automatic landing ( fail operational ) . With a LAND 2 indication , the level of redundancy is such that a single fault can not cause a significant deviation from the flight path ( fail passive ) . An EICAS message is displayed for any fault which limits the capability of the automatic landing system . Aural alerts for EICAS messages not affecting safety of flight are inhibited until after touchdown . Changes in autoland status below 200 feet , other than a transition to NO AUTOLAND status , are inhibited . From Chapter 9 , pages 22-23
The differences are in the demonstrated accuracy of the ILS or RNAV equipment . Not sure if the question can be properly answered without writing a book , but digging into the documents linked by Jonathan Walters I extracted the tables below . The document is very long and full of caveats , exceptions and specifics on testing requirements , etc. and frequently refers to parameters set forth in other documents . CAT I <URL> CAT II <URL> CAT III Landing System Performance . All types of low visibility landings systems , including automatic flight control , guidance for manual control , and hybrid , shall be demonstrated to achieve the performance accuracy with the probabilities prescribed in this section . The performance values may vary where justified by the characteristics of the airplane . The performance criteria and probabilities are as follows : ( a ) Longitudinal touch down earlier than a point on the runway 200 ft. ( 60m ) from the threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( b ) Longitudinal touch down beyond 2700 ft. ( 823m ) from threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( c ) Lateral touch down with the outboard landing gear more than 70 ft. ( 21.3 m ) from runway centerline to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . ( d ) Structural limit load , to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . An acceptable means of establishing that the structural limit load is not exceeded is to show separately and independently that : ( i ) The limit load that results from a sink rate at touch down not greater than 10 f.p.s. or the limit rate of descent used for certification under 14 CFR part 25 subpart C ( see section 25.473 ) , whichever is the greater . ( ii ) The lateral side load does not exceed the limit value determined for the lateral drift landing condition defined in part 25 , section 25.479 ( d ) ( 2 ) . ( e ) Bank angle resulting in hazard to the airplane to a probability of 1 x 10-7 . A hazard to the airplane is interpreted to mean a bank angle resulting in any part of the wing , high lift device , or engine nacelle touching the ground . 6.3.2 . Speed Control Performance . Airspeed must be controllable to within + / - five knots of the approach speed * , except for momentary gusts , up to the point where the throttles are retarded to idle for landing . For operations flown with manual control of approach speed , the flightcrew must be able to control speed to within + / - five knots of the approach speed . <URL>
I believe the answer has something to do with the introduction of the passenger jet airliner , which first came into service in the late 1950s . Note please that the original poster is asking for information on " commercial jets " whereas the statistics that others have offered have information on commercial planes in general , including prop planes . I glanced at the statistics for 1959 presented above and there were only two passenger jets ( including one KC-135 , which you may discount if you like ) that crashed . Compare this to the statistics presented for 1962 . There were six or seven crashes of Boeing and Douglas jet airliners . To me this means the differences were in all probablility not statistically significant . We do n't have enough " samples " to reach a valid conclusion . What you can see is a general explosion in the number of people flying . Jets really introduced the public to flying .
Fail-safe does not necessarily imply that the system will continue operating after a fail . If the system stops operating but does not create a dangerous situation , it is still fail-safe . A non-essential service on board an aircraft such as the entertainment system can be fail-safe if it just stops operating because a fuse blows . If the fuse does not blow and as a result the system catches fire after a short-circuit , it is not fail-safe . Fail-soft does indeed mean that after a failure , essential services are still functional , although in aviation context this is mostly refereed to as graceful degradation . A fly-by-wire system such as on board the A320 is fail soft : If all functions , the system flies with normal law active , providing protections against getting into unsafe regions of the flight envelope . Upon certain detected failures , the system switches to alternate law , still with some protections in place . Upon further failures , the system switches to direct law : no more flight envelope protections , just surface deflection proportional to stick deflection . So this system is fail-soft and fail safe . The electronic flight control system as a whole is fail safe : if all flight computers are lost , the system has hydro-mechanical connections from pedals to the rudder and from the trim wheel to the the stabiliser . Hydraulic systems require special attention regarding fail-safety , since a stuck servo valve can command a constant velocity : the actuator runs into one of its stops and has a hard-over failure . An elevator that is stuck in full up deflection is not safe , so the pitch control system needs to make provisions for fail-safety if this fault occurs . For instance by allowing left and right elevators to normally work in unison , but uncoupling them after a detection of a hard-over failure . The working elevator can then be commanded to full opposite position , making the elevator system fail-safe but not fail-soft : pitch command must now be done with the stabiliser trim . One elevator stuck in the mid position would be fail-safe , and control with the other elevator provides graceful degradation . The flight control system on board an F-16 is fail-operational : upon a system failure , full system function continues , no degradation . It is quadruple redundant , meaning there are four systems on board that carry out the same function , while only one is required . The four systems function independently , and a monitoring system determines if all four outputs are within a pre-determined range . If three are and one is not , this system is switched off and the other three continue . This can happen once more , but if there are only two systems operational the voting system would not know which of the two has failed .
end question
start question
Is the airport capacity related to number of runways ?
Airport Capacity At major airports the capacity of the system of runways is the most restricting element . While it is usually possible to increase capacity of the other airport elements or adding a new runway ( plus associated taxiways ) is very expensive and takes a very long time to complete . The runway capacity is the principal cause of most extreme instances of delays that lead to widespread schedule disruptions , flight cancellations and missed flight connections . The runway capacity varies greatly from day to day and changes are difficult to predict ( even a few hours in advance ) . Factors : The capacity of the runway system depends on several factors , the most important ones : Mix of aircraft classes using the airport : the aircraft mix indicates composition of aircraft fleet that is using any particular runway ( e.g. 25 % S , 60 % L and 15 % H ) . Separation requirements imposed by the ATM system : due to wind tip vortices , leading aircraft and trailing aircraft must be separated by a determined distance ( Heavy aircraft are the ones that produce more wake turbulence ) . Type and location of exits from the runway : trailing aircraft of any pair can not touch down on the runway before leading aircraft is clear of the runway . High-speed runway exits ( also well placed runway exits ) reduce runway occupancy times for arriving aircraft . Mix of movements on each runway and the sequencing of the movements : specified for all combinations of consecutive operations ( arrival-departure ) . There 's an important trade-off between maximum arrival and departure rates that an airport can achieve . Lateral separation : ( especially in bad weather ) between aircraft approaching the same airport on parallel runways . Sequencing and separation of departing and landing aircraft on runways that intersect . Sequencing of aircraft approaching airports located in close proximity to one another , where one aircraft must cross the path of another aircraft landing at a nearby airport . Direction and strength of winds . Noise-related and other environmental considerations and constraints . Conclusion : It is difficult to predict the capacity of the runway system of an airport , so it is difficult to compare two airports with similar runway characteristics , since the factors depending on the airport capacity involve different design and operational parameters . Furthermore , everything is subject to the important probabilistic factor , the weather , which makes the prediction and comparison of airport capacity even more difficult .
Which means , roughly 5 times more passengers can be accommodated by compromising half of the top speed . So , why does speed loses out so much to capacity that it ultimately becomes unfeasible to operate a supersonic airliner ? I think you are asking , " why do supersonic aircraft have such low capacity " ? To travel faster than the speed of sound you need to have a very sharp nose and minimal area exposed to the forward direction , to minimize the generation of shockwaves . Shockwaves are bad for people on the ground ( the ' sonic boom ' effect ) and they are terrible for fuel efficiency . Second you really do not want to trap air on flat surfaces facing forwards , because the air will get squashed in the supersonic flow and heat up a lot ( like when you blow up a bicycle tyre or a football it is warm afterwards , or when the space shuttle re-enters the atmosphere ) . Again this is an enormous drag and having hot air flowing around your aircraft causes problems with the structure ( Concorde used to grow by 300 mm during flight because of the heat ) . Since you can not be wide and you can not be tall ( without being aerodynamically inefficient ) , you need to be very long if you want lots of people . And then you have other problems . The design and construction of Concorde was never a commercial project , it was funded by two governments almost as a vanity project , as a prototype or as an experiment . Then it was given for free to two airlines to use as they wanted . So unlike the A380 and the B747 , no one has ever said " now we try to maximize the economics and the capacity of our design " : that never happened . All they ever asked was " How do we make this work !? " Whereas the subsonic aircraft get a lot of time , money and thought spent on how to make them more economical to use by filling them with more passengers . For more information I recommend this interview with a former Concorde pilot : <URL> Also , Concorde was developed 40 years ago . Are some more efficient supersonic Airliners possible today ? I am sure that these days a far more fuel efficient supersonic engine could be built for passenger operations . And I do believe there would be a market for it on say LON-NYC or even maybe LON-DXB . But designing supersonic aircraft is quite different to designing subsonic ones ; and then you have all the difficulty of modern safety regulations without being able to demonstrate you are relying on old , proven designs ; and then there are very few routes where it could work profitably so you have very high development and maintenance costs spread over a small number of airframes . Basically , it is n't worth the risk to anyone to make it .
That is a static pressure line . The " shuttlecock " device on the end pulls the line out behind the aircraft , where it can get a more accurate pressure reading , away from the air flowing around the aircraft that affects the regular <URL> . It will also be more accurate during flight conditions that normal aircraft rarely experience , but need to be accurately analyzed during testing . <URL> Static pressure has an effect on the performance of the aircraft , so during testing that is one value they want to measure accurately during flights . Once testing is complete there is no longer a need for that information , and the regular pitot-static system takes the measurements needed . The line can be seen in <URL> , and in <URL> , you can see the reel inside the rear of the aircraft that is used to pull in the line when it is not in use .
The step-to-step guide : 1 . Search for Flight Number : Get hold of the flight number , such as LH123 or AA789 for instance . This is usually found on your ticket , baggage tag or some email . Enter it on a site such as <URL> or <URL> . Note down the registration ( such as N1234A or D-ABYT ) for the flight on the day your are interested in . 2 . Search for this Registration : Try entering it on for instance <URL> which is often considered a reliable source for aircraft data . You should be able to get the aircraft history : First flight and delivery dates ( and hence aircraft age ) Previous operators and registrations . MSN ( manufacturer serial number )
Generally two groups have authority to close a runway ( or airport ) for an incident/emergency , and if either says it 's closed , it 's closed : The airport owner/operator/management . It 's their facility , so if they say it 's closed , it 's closed . Specifically it 's the persons authorized to issue NOTAMs for the airport who can close a runway ( by issuing the NOTAM saying it 's closed ) , but the chain of command for making this decision may vary from airport to airport . Runways may also be closed by airport administration without issuing a NOTAM ( this happens frequently at Brookhaven airport ( KHWV ) - <URL> will be put out on the crosswind runway when the banner tow operators are set up for pick-up/release on that runway ) . Often there 's a blanket NOTAM about " banner tow ops " or similar that sort-of covers this situation ( basically " Expect strange things to be happening because the banner tow people are doing ... whatever it is they do " . ) The control tower ( if one exists ) . Whether or not they have the administrative authority to " close " a runway , they certainly have the practical authority to do so by denying anyone clearance to take off/land from it or to enter it , and by issuing NOTAMs indicating that a runway is closed/unusable for some reason . At an airport like LaGuardia where you have both an FAA Control Tower and a robust airport operations/management group ( The Port Authority of New York &amp; New Jersey ) a Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU ) or similar agreement is likely in place to ensure that everyone knows who is authorized to do what when , but in cases like this where an aircraft has a runway excursion the course of action is pretty obvious and nobody is going to want aircraft to be moving around on the ground until the situation is under control and safety can be assured .
Airport designers may use any type of material , based on construction research status and local meteorological conditions . Pavements may be flexible or rigid . There is no single technique to protect against wear and tear , and none specific to airports , this is similar to regular road construction . Information on <URL> at <URL> . E.g. a rigid pavement : FAA provides advisories to help designers . ICAO requires airports to report their pavement characteristics . ( source : <URL> ) FAA documentation related to pavement design : <URL> <URL> ICAO requires member states to report aerodrome-related aeronautical data , including pavement strength . The standardized method is known as the <URL> method . As a critical characteristic of a pavement is the friction , this matter is refined in <URL> . This document includes data on rubber removal frequency , e.g. Busy runway end : ( source : <URL> ) A technique for rubber removal : ( source : <URL> ) This thesis describes how to optimize runway pavements in order to increase friction and how to remove rubber deposit : <URL> by Samantha Theresa Pinto . Note that : Rubber accumulation on a dry runway is generally not a problem since the rubber interaction between the aircraft tire and the rubber on the runway creates traction that may actually improve friction . However , in wet conditions , rubber accumulation leads to loss of friction on the runway by clogging the pavement texture and creating an especially slick surface with minimal drainage capability when the runway surface is wet . Additionally , rubber accumulation causing decreased friction values means pilots have less directional control of the aircraft than expected on a bare and dry runway .
Yes , the yaw string on the canopy of a glider is there to show you whether or not you are coordinated , especially during turns . It indicates the relative wind , so will be straight unless the glider is slipping or skidding , in which case it will swing to the left or right . For those not familiar with them , here is an image that shows one : According to <URL> , they are also used on other aircraft ( even jet fighters and the U-2 ! ) although they are used in almost every glider . Now , the advantages that it has over an actual instrument installed in the panel are numerous : It is directly in your line of sight while looking outside , so you do n't have to look at the instrument panel to see if you are yawing . It is more sensitive It reacts faster to changes It is cheaper It is lighter It does n't require electricity ( or even an electrical system on the glider ) It costs far less to maintain It is easy to recognize when it fails ( it 's either there or not )
<URL> of the FAA Order titled " Air Traffic Control " covers the procedures that are used for aircraft departures , including those cases where they have intersecting runways . There are numerous procedures that they follow that are specific to intersecting runways , including : 3-9-4 - LINE UP AND WAIT ( LUAW ) If the tower has an airplane Line Up And Wait ( taxi onto the active runway but not actually takeoff ) because of another airplane that is landing or taking off on an intersecting runway , they must inform them of the other airplane and why they are not taking off . 3-9-7 - WAKE TURBULENCE SEPARATION FOR INTERSECTION DEPARTURES 3-9-8 - INTERSECTING RUNWAY SEPARATION This probably covers most of what you are asking about , and has some great pictures showing when they are allowed to clear another airplane for takeoff in different situations . For instance , they ca n't clear an airplane for takeoff with another airplane landing on an intersecting runway until after they have passed their runway . Note that there are similar procedures in <URL> In short , there are lots of extra procedures that must be followed when using intersecting runways simultaneously , but they also get a lot of operational benefits when they can do it so are able to get a lot more airplanes on and off the ground in the same amount of time .
Short answer An operator of a certified airport is required to conduct airport operations according to an Airport Operations Manual . This manual must enumerate the facilities offered by the airport . An important aspect of the manual is to describe how airport safety and emergencies are managed , and by whom . Note that the obligations for safety are not specific to airports , but apply to any aerodrome . what is required for an airport is to write in the AOM how they are implemented . So the difference between an aerodrome and an airport is not about the facilities or the equipment , it 's about how it is operated and who checks it is done as intended . Indeed <URL> at an airport ( e.g. markings , lights and signs ) but they are not specific to airports , they apply to all aerodromes . Layman language Aerodrome usually refers to the possibility for aircrafts to land and take-off . This is the point of view of a pilot with needs to takeoff and land . The word aerodrome is derived from the Greek words aeras ( αέρας ) , " air " and dromos ( δρόμος ) , " road " or " course " , literally meaning " air course " ( <URL> ) . Airport usually refers to an aerodrome with passengers or freight facilities . This is the angle of view of an airline conducting business . In Canada there are obligations associated with running an airport . International airport usually refers to an airport with customs and immigration services . Aeronautical language For the aeronautical information , a Canadian airport remains an aerodrome . E.g. a <URL> . Canadian authorities language In Canada , an airline making business with air transportation must operate at aerodromes holding an airport certificate , aerodromes referred to by the Canadian authorities as airports . From <URL> " airport " means : an aerodrome in respect of which an airport certificate issued under Subpart 2 of Part III is in force . Issuance of the certificate is described at section <URL> , and obligations for the airport operator are described at section <URL> . This is a very long list of obligations . An Airport Operations Manual is required , and described at section <URL> . Summary of section <URL> - The operator of an airport shall ... Comply with the <URL> Inspect the airport [ ... ] after any aviation occurrence ... Assign duties on the movement area and any other area [ ... ] only to employees who have successfully completed a safety-related initial training course on human and organizational factors . Summary of section <URL> - The Airport Operations Manual must contain ... ... all the informations necessary for the authorities to verify that the airport meets the <URL> ... Physical characteristics Obstacle limitation surfaces Declared distances Lighting , markers , markings , signs Access to the movement area and control procedures ... Enumeration of the facilities and services provided [ ... ] including air traffic services and aeronautical information and communication services , navigation aids , and aviation weather services Emergency response measures Airport safety measures Safety management system required under section <URL> Description of the safety management system 's components specified in section <URL> The operator of an airport shall operate the airport in accordance with the Airport Operations Manual . ICAO publishes a set of <URL> , including Annex 14 -- Aerodromes , Volume I -- Aerodrome Design and Operations . Standards are fully enforced by ICAO members , recommended practices are encouraged but still optional for members . Summary In Canada , airlines are required to conduct business <URL> regarding aircrafts , passengers , security , etc. . One of these obligations is to use airports holding a valid certificate . Airport operators are required to conduct operations according to the practices listed in related publications . They must use an Airport Operations Manual describing how these practices are implemented . The authorities deliver the airport certificate based on this manual , and on-site inspection . Airports operators are required to install <URL> , but this is valid for any aerodrome . Airport operators are not required to offer such services as immigration , ATC , weather station , refueling , gateways , etc , however they are required to publish , in the Airport Operations Manual , which services are available . It 's up to airlines to select and use the appropriate airports , according to their needs and legal obligations .
You have a few questions here . ... downwind pattern and I hear something like this : " 123X , tower , you are # 2 for runway 3 , following a Cessna on final . " In this case what you will do is continue your down wind leg while scanning for the Cessna traffic , some towers may ask you to " report traffic in sight " in which case you will say " traffic in sight " when you can see the Cessna . If he is on a long final you can begin turning your base ( assuming you are in a similar small plane of a similar speed ) when he is on your beam ( right off your wing tip ) . This should provide adequate spacing for you to come in properly . Keep in mind that the tower may also instruct you to do things to keep separation like " 123X Extend your down wind 1 mile " etc. . ... instructed to make " left pattern for runway 3 , " am I supposed to wait for the base leg turn until tower clears me for landing ? This depends on where you are coming in from . I have flown into towered airports on the runway heading and simply come into the pattern on final and was cleared to land about a mile from the runway . Other wise I typically report my midfield downwind to the tower " Piper 12345 Reporting Left Midfield Downwind for RW24 " then the tower will respond with my landing clearance or instructions to extend . While it is the towers responsibility to clear you for landing and what not , controllers are not perfect , you can continue on towards the runway in your pattern but if you have not been cleared you should go-around or ask for clearance . The other situation I have been in is a case where the controller deliberately does not clear you but has you come into the pattern and approach . This occurred while they were waiting for an IRF plan to come through for one of the regional jets waiting for departure . Since they did not know when it would come in I was instructed to continue my pattern and would be cleared on final if they did not need to get the jet out . However I was explicitly told I would be cleared on final so I knew what to listen for .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
For subsonic aircraft the Mach number is normally measured from dynamic pressure and static pressure , very similar to the way calibrated airspeed is measured . $ $ M_a = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 } { \ gamma-1 } \ left [ \ left ( \ frac { q_c } { p } +1 \ right ) ^ \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { \ gamma } -1 \ right ] } $ $ with : $ M_a $ , the Mach number $ q_c $ , the dynamic pressure $ p $ , the static pressure $ \ gamma $ , the ratio of specific heats ( 1.4 ) If there is an error in the measurement of either the dynamic or the static pressure both the indicated airspeed and Mach number will be affected . Note that the Mach number has no direct dependency on temperature . The true airspeed is calculated by the ADC from the Mach number and the outside air temperature . $ $ V _ { TAS } = M_a \ cdot \ sqrt { \ gamma R T_S } $ $ with $ R$ , the specific gas constant ( 287.05 for dry air ) $ T_S $ , the static air temperature The indicated true airspeed has a direct dependency on the static air temperature ( $ T_S $ , SAT ) also known as the outside air temperature ( OAT ) . The static temperature can not be measured directly since the air will heat up on impact with the temperature sensor due to adiabatic compression . Instead the total air temperature ( $ T _ \ mathrm { total } $ , TAT ) will be measured . The relation between the measured total air temperature and the static temperature is given by : $ $ \ frac { T _ \ mathrm { total } } { T _ { s } } = { 1 + \ frac { \ gamma -1 } { 2 } M_a ^ 2 } $ $ Since the measurement probe may not recover all the energy from the adiabatic heating a correction factor is introduced : $ $ \ frac { T _ \ mathrm { total } } { T _ { s } } = { 1 + \ frac { \ gamma -1 } { 2 } eM_a ^ 2 } $ $ This ' recovery factor ' $ e $ is determined empirically for the temperature sensor used . The display on the EFIS will show the OAT , which may be slightly off if $ e $ is not entirely correct . This will also affect the " true " airspeed indication . To conclude ; anything indicated in the cockpit can contain measurement errors , regardless whether it is called ' indicated ' or ' true ' . With the introduction of digital flight data systems the error correction tables have been moved from the manuals to the computer , which automatically corrects for them .
No , it is almost impossible . The only runway ( 06/24 ) Lukla Airport is just 1500 feet long . This <URL> lists some interesting facts : The topography of the place makes any go-around impossible . At the south , the runway is the end of an angled drop of about 2000 feet . This cliff is fenced off as a precautionary measure . At the northern end of the runway there is a huge mountain terrain . It leaves no room for error . A pilot mentions the same <URL> : " Because there is no way to go around again , we have to calculate many things like air speed , tail wind , fog . If you do n't do the proper calculation or proper exercise , then it ( an accident ) happens . " Planes land on runway 06 ( Heading 060 or ENE ) and takeoff from runway 24 ( Heading 240 or WSW ) . This picture shows the cliff on North : There have been several <URL> at this airport .
The correct term is to vacate a runway . The term is used several times in the ICAO Manual of Radiotelephony ( Doc 9432 ) , including the following example ( among many ) : 4.9 After landing Unless absolutely necessary , controllers should not give taxi instructions to pilots until the landing roll is completed . Unless otherwise advised , pilots should remain on tower frequency until the runway is vacated . Pilot : Georgetown Ground Fastair 345 runway vacated ATC : Fastair 345 taxi to stand 27 via taxiway alpha And a relevant note from the same document : Note . -- The runway is vacated when the entire aircraft is beyond the relevant runway-holding position .
The statement is apparently from the <URL> of <URL> at George Mason University . One form of fog that is formed in airports usually is radiation ( or ground ) fog . As the flat open surfaces in airport are prone to cooling overnight due to thermal radiation , the air close to the surface is also cooled to the dew point . This reduces the ability of the air to hold moisture , allowing condensation and fog to occur . One reason for the statement may be that open areas in the airport give up their heat much quicker than urban heat islands , which does not have flat surfaces prone to thermal radiation .
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
Generally , you call the <URL> at the airport . They are often listed in the <URL> or if you want a digital source , <URL> has them . If you use <URL> , they will also list many of them . They will also provide you with fuel information as well as anything else you may need to know about the airport . At smaller airports , you may be limited to a single FBO . At larger airports it 's usually worth to talk to all of them ( depending on your needs ) since there can often be large differences in prices . It should be noted that some FBO 's may waive ramp fees if you purchase some minimum quantity of fuel . Some airports may also charge landing fees ( which you will pay through the FBO ) . When I flew out of KPNE there was a $ 5 a day landing fee ( as many TO/LD as you wanted ) . Pro Tip : the internet is riddled with forums and user groups these days . You may find that a simple " Hey thinking of flying into XXX next weekend " will return you a gaggle of information about the airport and what to do . If you are really lucky , someone may even offer you a spot in their hangar ( if they have room ) .
To the best of my knowledge , you do not require any certification to fix a runway/taxiway , and anyone with a proper equipment can do that . But to facilitate the process , the FAA has published a few checklists which have to be filled while doing this repair job . These checklists can be found <URL> . FAA also provides assistance in guiding the construction jobs and identifying risks , the link to which is in the same website as mentioned above .
It completely depends on the accident and airport . For example if I crash land on 10R at San Francisco , and it 's a fairly quiet time of day ( eg below the capacity of one runway ) , the airport could just use 10L and continue operations as normal . Similarly if there was no wind they could just switch to 1/19 L/R instead of 10/28 L/R . I 'll discuss this toward the end of this answer . Even if the crash did n't damage the runway , if the accident did n't damage the runway and the aircraft could be safely moved the airport would be back to normal as soon as the aircraft was moved and the runway had been checked . This could be within an hour . On the other hand if at a single runway airport , with severe damage to the runway and a need to leave the aircraft in situ to be inspected , it could take several weeks . In the cases you mentioned , BA 38 landed short of the runway . The airport was closed to arrivals for a few hours , however , and hundreds of flights were delayed , cancelled , or diverted . In the meantime , the runway in question ( 27L ) was closed entirely for arrivals until 3 days later when the aircraft was recovered . However the runway re-opened on the day of the accident for departures only . As Heathrow typically operates with one runway for Departures and one for Arrivals , this had minimal impact on operations : <URL> In Turkish flight 1878 , the aircraft impacted Runway 5 , then again on Runway 35L , but as far as I 'm aware no significant damage was done . The other runways were inspected and used until the aircraft was moved . Ataturk is a busy airport , but not so busy that it ca n't cope with the loss of a single runway . Again a few hundred flights were delayed , cancelled , or diverted . In neither incident was wreckage left on the actual runway , so once inspected they could be used as normal . There was some disruption in both cases - although no more than that caused by bad weather . If the aircraft had remained on the runway in either case , however , and had the accidents been at a single airport runway ( eg London Stansted rather than Heathrow ) , the airport would likely have been closed for several days . Another interesting case is <URL> - an accident at San Francisco which closed the Airport for a few hours , and the runway for around a day . The other two runways ( 1/19 L/R which are perpendicular , as San Francisco has 4 runways arranged as 2 pairs ) re-opened after around an hour and meant there was minimal impact , along with the parallel runway ( 10L/28R ) which re-opened 24 hours later . The accident runway ( 10R/27L ) re-opened around a week later . One thing to note is that in most cases , an airport only needs runways in one direction - so for example at San Francisco there is a lot of resilience in the runways . As long as the accident does n't cause damage too close to the " crossover " of the runways , San Francisco should almost always be able to operate at near full capacity shortly after an accident , even with a runway closed , due to always having a pair of runways available . Airports such as Heathrow with a single pair of runways are less resilient
What is used to de-ice a commercial aircraft ? <URL> are used which are made of <URL> or <URL> in addition to other ingredients . What is used to de-ice a runway at a large airport ? Airports use different types of materials , e.g. <URL> . <URL> is a brand which is popular . <URL> using normal techniques like salt and snowplows etc. . Do the two fluids effect each other at all ? Meaning , when an aircraft drips de-icing fluid onto the runway , does it cause any interactions or problems ? I do not think that there is much or any damage to a runway from the de-icing fluid . If something is bad for solid concrete , how it can be good for fragile aluminium ? Research shows that the residuals left on the airplanes cause some issues . Those are described below . Effect of runway de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes There are some studies that show the runway fluid having some adverse effects when combined with de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes . <URL> : Runway deicing fluids contain potassium acetateor potassium formate-based fluids ( deionizing salts ) . When these fluids combine , the separation of the anti-icing fluid thickeners may be enhanced , leading to a more rapid formation of the residue . Effect of airplane de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes However , de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes can freeze and cause damages to flight controls . More information is <URL> .
end question
start question
Is it possible to get access to flight logs of USAAC trainer planes from the 1930s ?
For serial number 31-35 - Pilot seems to be Brookley , Wendell H - Homebase seems to have been Wright Field , Dayton , OH <URL> For serial number 31-85 - Pilot seems to be Larkin , James D. - Homebase seems to have been Boeing Field , Seattle , WA <URL> <URL>
The cost from 0 to ATP can be highly variable . An easier number to quantify is 0 - Commercial/CFI . Even the cost of 0 - Comm/CFI can vary , but there are a few accelerated programs that offer this . One service ( I 'm not advertising , so I 'm not naming them ) offers a program that lasts 150 days and costs $ 65,000 * + checkride expenses . You start with nothing and end up with single/multi commercial , an instrument rating and your CFI/MEI/II along with 100 hours multi-engine time . This particular program ( and others like it probably ) hires their instructors from within , so there is a possibility for multi-instruction -- but you wo n't be making much money for it . The cost of commercial to ATP is harder to nail down because of the possibilities that open up post-commercial . On the high end , you could just rent or buy time to ATP mins , but that could cost a fortune . On the low end you could work to ATP mins and make some money . A good way to make money with a fresh commercial/cfi ticket is to instruct . There are also jobs like banner towing or pipeline/powerline patrol you could do , but you probably still need to build time beyond commercial mins to be competitive for those jobs . You also mention cropdusting , but keep in mind many of those ops are turbine powered ag-cats and you wo n't be competitive there with a fresh commercial ticket . * You can do it cheaper but I 'm giving these numbers because a fast but expensive program may appeal to a career changer .
For serial number 31-35 - Pilot seems to be Brookley , Wendell H - Homebase seems to have been Wright Field , Dayton , OH <URL> For serial number 31-85 - Pilot seems to be Larkin , James D. - Homebase seems to have been Boeing Field , Seattle , WA <URL> <URL>
Yes , based purely on the wing shape an airliner could fly upside down and maintain a straight inverted flight . The lift of the wing is a function of the vertical angle of the airflow , the angle of attack . <URL> <URL> The picture shows an airfoil pointed upwards , but the same forces apply when the wing nose point downwards . Then turn the picture upside down , and you have lift pointing upwards again . The situation is valid for an asymmetric airfoil as well , the only difference being that it provides lift at AoA zero . Zero lift is provided at a slight negative angle of attack , so the aircraft nose will be further up when inverted , still below the stall angle though .
Assuming that you 're in category 3 ( aircraft under 12,500 lbs ) then an approval is only valid for 365 days , so if you want to continue flight training after that then you need to request a new one : Once you have permission to train , you have 180 days to begin training and 365 days to complete the approved training . Both of these time periods start from the day you receive approval . For example , if you begin flight training 30 days after you have been approved , you now have 335 days to finish . If you do not finish , a new training request must be submitted . That 's from the <URL> ; the TSA 's <URL> is a bit more difficult to use .
Yes take-off without flaps is possible . The Airbus A300 and Boeing 767 are approved for such take-offs and it is being done regularly . It results in a better climb gradient , especially with one engine out . The one engine out climb gradient is an important and sometimes limiting factor in take-off calculations . One important constraint is the length of the runway . Another limitation , perhaps less obvious , is the maximum rolling speed of the wheels . The tires are rated to a limited speed which may be exceeded by a flap-less take-off .
My questions are : Is it really normal to see reports without viz ? Yes ! Well , maybe not " normal " , but it does happen . Automated weather stations are like another piece of equipment and components fail from time to time , including the components which measure the visibility . The other components also fail from time to time ( I 've see ASOS/AWOS reports without temperature , barometric pressure , etc. ) Why does this happen so often for AWOS when ATIS does n't have problems with it ? You should n't see this at all with ATIS , because a human is involved , and if the equipment which measures visibility is inoperative , a trained observer ( often the same person that is manually recording the ATIS ) can look out the window and record the visibility themselves . Should this be reported to some entity ( NOAA/FAA ) to get these systems repaired or exchanged ? I would let the airport manager know just in case they were n't aware . They are responsible for notifying the FAA . The fact that it is missing visibility information does not mean that visibility is unobstructed , right ? I have heard people assume this . If the visibility is missing , it means just that . It is missing . It might be 1/4 SM or it might be 20 SM . Some people may make assumptions that if there is no precipitation , that the temperature / dew point spread is high , etc. that the visibility is good , but that is a potentially dangerous assumption because visibility can be influenced by many different things . There could even be a dust storm coming through when everything else looks good ! If the recording says " VISIBILITY MISSING " , is it indicated in the metar somewhere ? Sort of . It 's just " missing " ( i.e. the entire wind block from the METAR will not be there ) , so if you do n't see it then , well , it 's missing .
Not the FAA , but the manufacturer . If the parts are composite , only a small range of colors may be approved , depending on the <URL> of the resin matrix . For gliders , only white is allowed for most of the surface area , and similarly composite parts of airliners must be painted <URL> so they do n't heat up too much in sunlight . Curiously , the lower surface has the most restrictions , because here the reflected light from a concrete surface and the restricted ventilation create the highest surface temperatures . Next , the UV absorption capability , moisture protection characteristics and the chemical stability of the paint when in contact with aviation fuel , hydraulic fluids , de-icing fluids and other solvents is important . Composite gliders must use a special topcoat which is more brittle than the composite structure , so cracks will show up . Airliners may use more flexible paints , but must then undergo regular inspections of their composite parts . Metal surfaces are less demanding and can be painted in any color . Only the area in front of the windshield should be dark enough to reduce glare and irritating reflections .
You 'll be on a flight plan . You 'll have to clear customs at a designated airport and file the appropriate paperwork . More info here : <URL> If you notify the border agency it will make recommendations if they think your flight poses a risk . There is only screening at Gatwick and Heathrow . <URL>
Unless you tell us which book you read this in ( and what exactly it said ) , it is not possible to answer your question ( the answer depends on whether the zero angle of attack is that of the airframe or the airfoil ( wing ) ) . We can try for a general answer though . As far as angle of attack is concerned , there are two kinds - geometric and absolute . First , angle of attack is the angle between some reference line and the freestream ( i.e. the velocity vector ) . The selection of reference line determines the ' kind ' of angle of attack . Geometric angle of attack , $ \ alpha $ is the angle between the chord and freestream ; this is the one usually used . Absolute angle of attack , $ \ alpha_a $ is the angle between the freestream and the zero lift line ( the line , which when parallel to the freestream , produces no lift in the wing ) . The geometric and absolute angles of attack can be related through $ \ alpha_a = \ alpha - \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ , where $ \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ is the angle between the chord and zero lift line . <URL> Relation between geometric and absolute angles of attack , image from <URL> For a cambered airfoil , the zero lift line is negative i.e. the airfoil will produce lift even when the geometric angle of attack is zero ( in this condition , the absolute angle of attack is positive ) . For a symmetric airfoil , of course , the zero lift line coincides with the chord and as such , the airfoil produces no lift when the geometric ( or absolute ) angle of attack is zero . As far as the lift is concerned , what matters is the absolute angle of attack , while we usually use the geometric one . Simply put , what matters is the absolute angle of attack of the wing . If this value is positive , lift will be produced and level flight is possible , whatever the aircraft attitude .
There is an excellent answer at <URL> The <URL> is a ground attack fighter unsuited to intercepting and/or shooting down 777s . If the Ukrainian air force wanted to do so , they have better aircraft available . The SU-25 max speed is slower than a cruising 777 . The SU-25 has an operational ceiling of 16000 ft with max weapons to 23000 ft clean , MH17 was at 33000 ft. It is an unpressurised aircraft . As a ground attack aircraft it probably only rarely carries air to air missiles . It can carry the R-60 infra-red air-to-air missile which has a 6 lb warhead effective against small aircraft . An R-60 once hit and destroyed one engine of a small BAE 125 business jet at 35000 ft but failed to bring it down , apparently the missile failed to explode . <URL> , a Boeing 707 , was hit by an R-60 and made an emergency landing 40 minutes later . The R-60 is a short-range missile ( 5 miles ) . The Russians claim the SU-25 came within two or three miles of MH17 . On the whole this makes the SU-25 a poor choice for shooting down a cruising 777 . It seems unlikely that a 777 would be shot down in this way . Not impossible , but far less likely than other proposed scenarios such as those involving BUK ( SA-11 ) ground to air missiles . Results of an <URL> . Results of an <URL> ... two R-60s were launched , one missed . These R-60s were fired by supersonic interceptors , not by SU-25 ground-attack aircraft .
I understand your question as : " do we have yet the required interfaces for a computer to fully interact with an aircraft " . This is indeed the prerequisite before any intelligent system can pilot an aircraft . That means could we yet plug a system into some bus to receive all signals available to a human pilot and send all commands a human pilot can issue . The answer is no ( e.g. a computer can not lower the gears or receive electronic signals from the wet compass ) , but the required updates are not so large and involve limited retrofitting . Of course , we do n't have this computer yet , but this kind of software is not a huge step either ( and anyway this is not in the scope of your question ) . Would such system be economically profitable for an airline in term of safety , certification , operational cost , software maintenance , compared to a human first officer ? If the answer is yes , then this is a matter of maybe 10 years before a full electronic pilot is tested . I doubt the answer is yes , it could be useful , but it will have an additional cost , so there could be a long time before we see it in a cockpit .
The FAA ( unsurprisingly ) has definitions of different types of Electronic Flight Bag ( EFB ) systems , which you can find in <URL> . It 's targeted at airlines , but the concepts are generally applicable . They break them down into Class 1 , Class 2 , and Class 3 EFBs , and the answer is a little different for the different classes : Class 1 EFB Hardware . This is what most of us General Aviation Folks use : A portable computer or tablet considered " portable electronic devices " with no specific FAA approvals . Per the FAA a Class 1 EFB ca n't be " mounted to the aircraft " or connected to the aircraft systems or a dedicated power supply ( i.e. they ca n't be permanently wired into anything ) , but you can plug them in to an " existing aircraft power supply " ( like the cigarette lighter port ) for battery recharging . This is what most of us GA folks are using - an iPad with Foreflight and Stratus is technically a " Class 1 EFB " . This is just a regular computer , so it can in fact be the same device you play Plants vs Zombies on ( though if you 're using it in an airline environment they 've probably locked it down and restricted what you can do : Plants vs Zombies is probably not available in the cockpit of your Southwest flight ) . Class 2 EFB Hardware . Class 2 EFBs are essentially Class 1 EFBs that get mounted to the aircraft , but can be easily removed by the flight crew ( for example a GPS or iPad in a panel-mounted cradle ) and may connect to aircraft data systems via cables or wireless connections ( for example Garmin 's Flightstream system ) . Class 2 EFBs have the same battery-charging provision as Class 1 EFBs , but ca n't be directly wired into aircraft power . As far as the FAA is concerned they 're still " portable electronic devices " . This is what the more advanced bits of GA are using - An iPad with Garmin Pilot communicating with your GTN stack via flightstream to get its GPS position &amp; transfer flight plans . Again this can be the same device you play Plants vs Zombies on , but the operator may have locked it down to keep their crews from flying past their destination <URL> . Class 3 EFB Hardware . Class 3 EFBs are installed systems with FAA approvals ( for type-certificated aircraft ) . The chart data stored on e.g. a GTN650 or GMX200 with charts and plates loaded on it would qualify here , as would flight management systems on larger aircraft . Generally you wo n't be playing Plants vs Zombies on Class 3 EFB hardware because the approvals for it would n't include that capability . The exception here is the Experimental Aircraft community : Such aircraft may have a consumer tablet installed in the panel and wired into ship 's power in such a way as to qualify for all practical purposes as a " Class 3 EFB " , and it 's possible you could play Plants vs Zombies on your installed iPad in such an aircraft .
The inlets of supersonic aircraft routinely control ( reduce ) the Mach number of the engine ( at compressor inlet ) during flight . This is done using either a 2D ramp type inlet ( like Concorde ) or a center body ( like Mig-21 ) . These inlets convert the incoming supersonic flow to subsonic flow by forming shock waves in the path of the airflow . <URL> Source : sturgeonshouse.ipbhost.com In subsonic conditions , the inlets perform two functions : At cruise condition , diffusion of the free-stream flow to the compressor inlet condition . At takeoff , acceleration of static air to the compressor inlet condition . So basically , the inlet design can be optimized such that the Mach number is constant ( within some variation ) over the engine operational range . In your case , however , I think that it is a simplifying assumption made for the problem .
Briefly : yes , it 's possible ( but very unlikely ) ; small pressurized aircraft are the more likely scenario ; maybe it has happened but if so it 's very rare . According to the FAA 's AC on <URL> it 's possible and more likely to happen in a smaller pressurized aircraft : ( a ) Explosive Decompression . A change in cabin pressure faster than the lungs can decompress . Most authorities consider any decompression that occurs in less than 0.5 seconds as explosive and potentially dangerous . This type of decompression is more likely to occur in small volume pressurized aircraft than in large pressurized aircraft and often results in lung damage . [ ... ] ( b ) Rapid Decompression . A change in cabin pressure where the lungs can decompress faster than the cabin . The risk of lung damage is significantly lower in this decompression compared to an explosive decompression . Unfortunately they do n't cite any statistics or source for the statement " often results in lung damage " so it is n't clear when it has actually happened . Other sources suggest that it 's very rare , for example Beyond the Black Box : The Forensics of Airplane Crashes <URL> this : The Air Force reports no serious injuries resulting from rapid decompression with open airways , even while wearing an oxygen mask . However , disastrous , even fatal consequences can result if the breath is forcibly held with the lungs full of air . [ ... ] Lung damage is considered nearly impossible in a commercial aircraft because of the large volume of air inside the plane . [ ... ] Even <URL> [ ... ] did not decompress fast enough to cause internal injuries . In other words , it 's not going to happen unless you hold your breath , but <URL> says that you wo n't be able to do that anyway : I 've had pilots tell me they would be able to hold their breath [ in order to extend the <URL> . That wo n't happen . First of all , the surprise of the event will override any defensive measure you may have thought you could put into place . Secondly , the rapid change in pressure differential will make it impossible to hold your breath . ( Remember , we can be talking about a pressure differential of 8.8 PSI . Let 's put these pressure differentials into perspective . A differential of 8.8 PSI is 1267 pounds per square foot . I think the surprise is a key point here : the <URL> increases your breathing rate so even if it were physically possible to hold your breath it 's extremely unlikely that you would do so . Interestingly , Google finds numerous sources that claim lung injuries are commonly caused by aircraft decompression , but I could n't find any source that mentioned a specific incident or even any statistics on it . I did find <URL> that studied 47 incidents of aircraft decompression but there was only one single barotrauma event among them and it affected the ears , not the lungs .
Absolutely not , as it would not be in the sense of security . It would block engine sounds ( eg you wo n't be able to hear a rough engine ) It would block warning sounds , for example stall warnings It would block any other abnormal sounds You will have problems understanding ATC ( and they will have even more problems understanding you ) These are just some reasons out of my head . If you want to listen to music inflight , buy a good headset with an AUX-In socket , those normally reduce the volume as soon as a transmission is incoming . And apart from the audio volume , it would also put a high load on the battery / alternator , which are probably not able to handle such a high load .
I believe the answer , at least in the US is 20 hours of flight time , plus however long a checkride takes . A sport pilot can carry a single passenger and the minimum requirements are outlined in <URL> : If you are applying for a sport pilot certificate with [ ... ] Airplane category and single-engine land or sea class privileges , Then you must log at least [ ... ] 20 hours of flight time , including at least 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a single-engine airplane and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311 , If a sport pilot applicant logged exactly 20 hours , got signed off , and then passed their checkride on the first attempt ... they would be able to fly passengers as soon as they completed the checkride . That means , realistically , probably 21 to 21.5 hours .
Accessing hydraulic lines &amp; resevoirs is perfectly straightforward in plenty of aircraft -- the C-130 as one example . With crew chiefs &amp; their tools &amp; spare parts on board , a temp repair on a hydraulic line would be possible . Highly unusual , but possible . Spare fluid is common enough to have on-board to replenish the resevoirs . However , access to the tires ... Nope . I ca n't think of anything where you could do that , and it would have to be a designed-in capability . Typically , crew-accessible areas are pressurized , but where the wheels retract , are n't . You have things like access to unpressurized bomb bays , and in unpressurized aircraft that 's not a barrier , but still ... If there are designs where the crew can access the tires in flight , I 'm not picturing them . As noted elsewhere , landing with a flat tire is n't typically a big deal .
The device you are talking about is called a <URL> . This is a device that listens for a signal ( an interrogation ) and responds with information about the airplane including an ATC assigned code , altitude information and additional aircraft info for certain equipment . There are 2 ways ATC watches airplanes : <URL> <URL> The transponder is interrogated by the Secondary radar and the response is listened for . Even with no transponder , the aircraft can still be tracked by primary radar . This is just a normal radar that is good at seeing airplane sized objects and not so great at seeing weather and can occasionally spot a large flock of birds . The primary radar is what provides the " blip " on radar and tracks the airplane . The datablock ATC has on the airplane comes from the secondary , so what ATC will see is a blip with no information . Turning off the transponder is as simple as setting it to OFF or pulling a circuit breaker and yes , it can be selected OFF in flight , it is just a switch . The problem with radar is that it only works so far from a radar transmitter and the further away you are the higher you must be to be seen by the radar . Over the ocean away from land , you are going to be on the fringe of radar or out of radar contact completely and thus unable to be tracked directly by ATC ( at this point , non-radar procedures such as position reporting and ETAs can be used to track positions ) . The flight in question was apparently visible by a military radar before it disappeared from the scopes ( it allegedly observed what appeared to be a turn back toward its origin ) .
Yes , what you describe is perfectly possible . A stall in banked flight can result in a spin , given you fly the " right " plane . My first flight in an ASW-20C was late in the afternoon , when most thermals had died down . I got a winch launch to maybe 350 m ( the ASW-20 is rather poor in winch launches ) and tried to find an updraft . In maybe 270 m I found one , but it was weak and narrow . So I slowed down to tighten the circle . Having flown a Discus all day before , I was not really alerted to watch out for a departure on stall . At some point the lateral stick force faded markedly , and out of the Discus habit I threw the stick into the circle so the inner aileron would deflect downwards to support the stalling wing . Bad choice ! This aggravated the incipient stall , the aircraft rolled into the circle and pitched down . While the view from the cockpit before was blue above and green below , it got now all green . I was entering a spin . The weakening stick force was the result of flow separation over the aileron , and while the Discus airfoil would still provide more lift with more deflection , the ASW-20 airfoil simply went into full stall . I immediately pushed down and levelled the plane , and went on to land straight away , having lost maybe 100 m . It all took only seconds , and only long after the flight I could piece all details together . My next flight in the ASW-20 was when the thermals were much stronger . I went up to 1000 m and did stall training until I knew how it felt when stall starts and what my options are . I should had done this on the first flight , and do so on all subsequent new types I fly .
end question
start question
Why does the Piper Malibu require a type rating ?
Here in the US the FAA can impose a type rating on any aircraft it likes ( see part 3 below ) . Generally speaking type ratings are either for big planes or planes that may require additional training for safety reasons . You can find the full regulations relating to US type ratings in the FAR under <URL> but basically , ( a ) Type ratings required . A person who acts as a pilot in command of any of the following aircraft must hold a type rating for that aircraft : ( 1 ) Large aircraft ( except lighter-than-air ) . ( 2 ) Turbojet-powered airplanes . ( 3 ) Other aircraft specified by the Administrator through aircraft type certificate procedures . In specific relation to the Malibu the US FAA does not require a type rating , you can find a <URL> . However it should be noted that to fly Pipers <URL> and <URL> Malibu variants , both of which have a service ceiling over 25,000 Ft you would need a <URL> ( along with all the other endorsements for a high performance plane like that ) . The JAA may require such a rating due to the pressurization system in the plane .
It is a pitot intake , and the round shape makes the intake tube lighter . It is a pressure vessel , after all , because the intake converts flow speed into pressure and slows the flow of air to the engines down to approximately half of the speed of sound . Placing the intake squarely at the side would make them less efficient ( a classic example for this would be the <URL> ) . The bulging fuselage above effects a pre-compression of the flow at supersonic speed , especially at higher angle of attack when thrust is needed most . To put them together under the fuselage ( <URL> style ) would cause interference in single-engine mode and would require a higher landing gear . The chosen shape is the best compromise for a lightweight and efficient intake for a two-engined aircraft .
I 've found some useful research here : <URL> The image shows the situation for high angles of $ \ beta $ : At large angles of sideslip with swept horizontal tails , the loading will probably not be antisymmetrical mainly because of the difference in lift effectiveness of the leading and trailing portions of the horizontal tail caused by the difference in their effective sweep angles . This would result in a net lift induced on the horizontal tail which is a function of sideslip and tail height . This possible effect of tail height is illustrated in sketch 9 for large positive sideslip angles : <URL> <URL> Interesting to see is that the model has no wings , so we can rule out any causes related to wings , in case people were thinking in this direction . I putsome more thought into it , and I drew these diagrams , which helped me understand the things being said in the paper . The blue pluses and minuses are the resulting velocities caused by the horizontal velocity as a function of the sideslip ( $ V _ { \ beta } $ ) . The red distributions are the forces on the elevator as consequence of this $ V _ { \ beta } $ . This component creates an increased velocity over the left side of the rudder , and a decreased velocity over the right side of the rudder . If there 's no sweep , the effects are equally strong , and no effect on the lift is present ( denoted by the top two images ) However , if there 's sweep , the effect on the left side is less strong , whereas it is stronger on the right side ( indicated by the two tails in the bottom row ) . In a T-tail , this stronger influence is acting on the lower side of the tail . As it is a minus ( meaning a relative reduction in velocity ) , it will lead to a reduction in suction on the lower side , or an upward force , causing a pitch down . In a normal tail , the minus will act over the upper surface . It causes a deceleration of the flow over the elevator , thereby reducing the lift it generates . This causes a pitch up movement . <URL>
<URL> ( titled " Over the Top " by Gerard J. Arpey ) says , By the way , because of the limitations of older navigation systems , none of the polar routes we fly crosses exactly over the North Pole . At the Pole , an airplane 's compass changes from a due-north heading to due south , and that change of course could potentially lead to problems with earlier - generation autopilot systems . Fortunately , that is not an issue with the latest generation of long-haul aircraft , such as the Boeing 777s we fly , whose source of navigation is the extremely precise Global Positioning System ( GPS ) . Nonetheless , to make polar flying equally effortless for both the new generation and the previous generations of aircraft , none of the approved civil polar routes comes closer than about 60 nautical miles from the Pole .
I find it hard to make a general answer since the fuel systems could be different between various aircraft , but , according to Jan Roskam 's Aircraft Design series ( I just had to return the book , but I think it 's Part IV in the series ) some model of the F/A -18 utilizes the following system which , in sustained inverted flight ( or any sustained flight condition wherein the aircraft does not experience a positive load factor ) , would eventually starve the engine of fuel . Keep in mind too that fuel is n't the only factor for sustaining this flight condition : oil flow through the engine is typically gravity fed ( reference for that is an engineer from Bell Helicopter who worked on the V-22 powerplant ) . Suction is used to scavenge the oil out of the engine/gearboxes/etc , but the flow of the oil up to a point where suction will pull it out is via gravity ( or whatever acceleration the aircraft is experiencing ) . Hence , not only do we need to provide fuel , but we also need to provide for proper oil flow as well . Anyhow , the F/A -18 fuel system . Again , I wish I had the image from the text to show you , but the basic idea is this : if you had a flop tube capable of scavenging from the entire fuel tank , it would engender more problems than it solved . Hence , inside of the primary fuel tank there 's a second , smaller tank . This tank has a series of poppet valves that allow fuel to flow into the inset tank during coordinated ( i.e. , positive load factor ) flight . When the aircraft is not experiencing a positive load factor , the pressure of the fuel on these valves holds them closed and the fuel stays within the inset tank . A short flop tube within this space provides fuel to the engines for the duration of the maneuver . However , as noted , this inset tank is only a portion of the larger main tank , so its capacity would be some fraction of the main tank , limiting the duration of the maneuver . So , to answer your question ( how does fuel starvation happen and why is n't it solved via a pump ) it 's a design problem that , per the printing of that text , could not be solved by adding capacity to the pump . There just simply was n't fuel present at the fuel sump to be scavenged . The real design problem would lie in the design of flop tubes capable of scavenging from the entire tank without creating more design problems ( an assumed point on my part ) . Examples , I think , would crop up if you decided to make a multiplicity of flop tubes ( larger pumps required , more parts , more complex plumbing , etc. ) , or longer flop tubes ( potential risk for damage to the tube head/tank with increased " flopping " inertia , larger pump required for greater head losses , etc. ) ... but I also do n't know what the current standard is .
No , by definition it is n't . There is drag . Drag is caused by different physical phenomena . According to the cause , it is classified to : Induced drag Induced drag is side-effect of generating lift over finite wing span . Lift is an upward force that the air exerts on the wing . By principle of action and reaction ( Newton 's third law of motion ) , the wing exerts downward force of equal magnitude on the air , and since the air is free to move , that force accelerates the air downwards . Now there are two equivalent arguments why this causes drag : In the frame of reference of the wing , the wing is not doing any work ( because it is not moving ) , so it ca n't change kinetic energy of the air , and therefore ca n't change its total velocity . Since the vertical component of that velocity increases , the horizontal component has to decrease and this requires forward force from the wing . The backward reaction to that force is the induced drag . In the frame of reference of the oncoming air , the kinetic energy does increase . Therefore the wing has to do some work on the air , which means applying force in direction of its motion . The backward reaction to that force is the induced drag . The explanations are both equally true , just using different frame of reference . Induced drag decreases with ( square of ) speed ( for constant lift ) , because at higher speed there is more air to accelerate , so it only needs to be accelerated by less . Induced drag is also independent of cross-section . If you cancel lift by moving elevator or aileron up , the cross-section may not change at all ( the flap might still be behind the wing ) , but the induced drag will vanish . By the way , it follows from this that induced drag of wing at 90 degrees is zero , because it is not producing any lift . The form drag is , of course , huge . Form drag Form drag is caused by imperfect pressure recovery behind the body . At the front of the object moving through fluid the fluid slows down , which comes with increase of pressure . In ideal laminar flow the fluid closes behind the object with the same slow speed and same high pressure . But as the object moves faster , the inertia causes the flow to separate and form a turbulent area behind the object where the pressure remains low . This pressure difference cause the form drag . The form drag depends on cross-section and shape of the object . It always increases with speed . Interference drag When complex structure , like an aircraft , is analysed , the form drag of each component ( wing , fuselage , empennage etc. ) is first analysed independently . But as the components are assembled together , the pressure fields around the parts negatively affect each other and this increase in drag is then called interference drag . Skin drag Skin drag is caused by the friction between the surface of the object and the fluid . The skin drag depends mainly on wetted surface of the object . It increases with speed in similar way to the form drag , so for practical purposes it is usually combined with the form drag into one term , the <URL> . Wave drag As the object moving through fluid approaches the speed of sound , the flow exceeds it as it tries to avoid the object and forms a shock wave . Behind the shock wave the pressure is much higher and this increase is not balanced by any increase on the aft part of the object , therefore causing large amount of drag . This kind of drag only appears as the flow speed approaches speed of sound , but then it quickly grows larger than the other forms .
Manifold pressure is actually a measure of the vacuum pressure between the throttle and the cylinders . The more the throttle is opened , the closer that manifold pressure returns to atmospheric pressure . The amount of fuel provided to the engine depends on the pressure difference between the manifold and the throttle body . The throttle body pressure will decrease as the throttle is increased , because of greater rate airflow across the venturi ( faster air - > lower pressure ) . The manifold pressure will increase as throttle is increased , due to the greater flow of fuel/air mix into the manifold ( greater mass of air flowing into a fixed volume - > higher pressure ) . So the pressure difference will get larger as the throttle is increased . <URL> has a pretty good description of what 's going on .
Here in the US the FAA can impose a type rating on any aircraft it likes ( see part 3 below ) . Generally speaking type ratings are either for big planes or planes that may require additional training for safety reasons . You can find the full regulations relating to US type ratings in the FAR under <URL> but basically , ( a ) Type ratings required . A person who acts as a pilot in command of any of the following aircraft must hold a type rating for that aircraft : ( 1 ) Large aircraft ( except lighter-than-air ) . ( 2 ) Turbojet-powered airplanes . ( 3 ) Other aircraft specified by the Administrator through aircraft type certificate procedures . In specific relation to the Malibu the US FAA does not require a type rating , you can find a <URL> . However it should be noted that to fly Pipers <URL> and <URL> Malibu variants , both of which have a service ceiling over 25,000 Ft you would need a <URL> ( along with all the other endorsements for a high performance plane like that ) . The JAA may require such a rating due to the pressurization system in the plane .
It is very rare for weather to go IMC unexpectedly . A responsible pilot should see that weather is deteriorating , and begin planning for the nearest available landing . If they can not find a landing , they should contact ATC while still in VMC , declare an emergency , and begin working with ATC to get down safely . In some cases , a pilot may inadvertently enter IMC unexpectedly . The standard procedure is to execute a standard rate 180 & deg ; turn , and fly equal time in the opposite direction . That should get them back to VMC conditions . If that does n't work , unfortunately inadvertent flight into IMC is a leading cause of GA accidents , especially CFIT ( Controlled Flight into Terrain - i.e. ' aircraft flew into the ground ' ) . Because of that , even basic private pilot training includes more basic instructions on instrument flying ( BAI ) than it used to .
In the US , the military is not required to obtain FAA type certificates for their aircraft ; the FAA is not the authority certifying a military-registered plane 's airworthiness . They have the option of accepting an FAA type certificate ( which they tend to do on aircraft based on civilian ones ) , but they run their own certification agencies for airworthiness , which are all that matters if the plane is in the military registration system . Here 's an <URL> on the matter , here 's a <URL> on the option to use FAA certification on commercial derivatives .
A flight requires pilot &amp; copilot when the aircraft being flown requires it . A multi-crew aeroplane is one that requires a flight crew of at least two pilots . One of them is the pilot-in-command ( the captain ) and the other is the co-pilot ( or first officer ) . All jet air transport aeroplanes and the vast majority of turbine powered air transport aircraft and business jet are multi-crew aeroplanes . The definition in <URL> states that it is : " an aircraft required to be operated with a co-pilot as specified in the flight manual or by the air operator certificate . " So the secondary answer is no , it can not be decided by a pilot or an operator , it is a statutory requirement .
Which means , roughly 5 times more passengers can be accommodated by compromising half of the top speed . So , why does speed loses out so much to capacity that it ultimately becomes unfeasible to operate a supersonic airliner ? I think you are asking , " why do supersonic aircraft have such low capacity " ? To travel faster than the speed of sound you need to have a very sharp nose and minimal area exposed to the forward direction , to minimize the generation of shockwaves . Shockwaves are bad for people on the ground ( the ' sonic boom ' effect ) and they are terrible for fuel efficiency . Second you really do not want to trap air on flat surfaces facing forwards , because the air will get squashed in the supersonic flow and heat up a lot ( like when you blow up a bicycle tyre or a football it is warm afterwards , or when the space shuttle re-enters the atmosphere ) . Again this is an enormous drag and having hot air flowing around your aircraft causes problems with the structure ( Concorde used to grow by 300 mm during flight because of the heat ) . Since you can not be wide and you can not be tall ( without being aerodynamically inefficient ) , you need to be very long if you want lots of people . And then you have other problems . The design and construction of Concorde was never a commercial project , it was funded by two governments almost as a vanity project , as a prototype or as an experiment . Then it was given for free to two airlines to use as they wanted . So unlike the A380 and the B747 , no one has ever said " now we try to maximize the economics and the capacity of our design " : that never happened . All they ever asked was " How do we make this work !? " Whereas the subsonic aircraft get a lot of time , money and thought spent on how to make them more economical to use by filling them with more passengers . For more information I recommend this interview with a former Concorde pilot : <URL> Also , Concorde was developed 40 years ago . Are some more efficient supersonic Airliners possible today ? I am sure that these days a far more fuel efficient supersonic engine could be built for passenger operations . And I do believe there would be a market for it on say LON-NYC or even maybe LON-DXB . But designing supersonic aircraft is quite different to designing subsonic ones ; and then you have all the difficulty of modern safety regulations without being able to demonstrate you are relying on old , proven designs ; and then there are very few routes where it could work profitably so you have very high development and maintenance costs spread over a small number of airframes . Basically , it is n't worth the risk to anyone to make it .
Your certificate level determines the type of operations you can conduct * , not the type of airplanes you can fly . The types of airplanes you can fly are determined by your category , class and type ratings . If you have a Private Pilot certificate with an instrument rating ( not sure if this is required , but you 'll want it either way ) and an airplane multi-engine land category and class and a B777 type rating , then yes , that person can operate the aircraft privately . He will also need an SIC and he will only be able to collect the pro-rata share of operating expenses from people he carries . He will also want to be careful in who he lets on his plane to avoid operations that are regulated under 14 CFR 119 . An example of such a pilot is John Travolta , who has a private pilot certificate with the following ratings : * Private pilots may only collect pro-rata operating expenses , Commercial pilots may be paid to act as PIC and ATPs may act as PIC in 14 CFR 121 operations .
I ca n't see a connection between " classes " of helicopters and ratings . You also do n't specify which jurisdiction so I will answer for the UK CAA which I know . To fly any helicopter under VFR needs nothing more than your license , gained on any type , and a type rating for the specific aircraft . For example , I gained my license on the R22 . I am therefore also type rated on it . The second aircraft I learned to fly was the B206 which is jet powered . I did n't need anything extra than the appropriate type rating . I can fly any helicopter for which I am rated under VFR . If I had an IFR certification , I could fly any helicopter I am rated for under VFR , and any IFR certified helicopter for which I am rated under IFR . " Difference training " is simply part of the the type rating . For example , if I ever learned to fly a craft with a retractable undercarriage , I would be rated to fly that type , but not another type with retractable gear . What does differ is the type of license , e.g. CPL or ATP . I would need that license in order to carry passengers for hire and to conduct other commercial operations , but I still need a type rating on whatever helicopter I use to carry those passengers . Put it this way , the day after I gained my license , I could climb into any helicopter and act as pilot under training . Hope that 's all clear !
Near as I know , the answer to the first question is no . The aircraft requires that a tail stand be fitted to it when the gun , magazine and electromechanical drive mechanism is removed for maintenance . Operation of the A-10 without the gun would exceed the weight and balance envelope for the aircraft , making flight , as well as ground operations hazardous . The A-10 has been proposed for use as a converted water bomber to fight forest fires but this balance problem without a counterweight installed in this region would make this very difficult . <URL> If one was going to remove the gun for a ferry flight , it would have to be fitted with some kind of counterweight in its place , which would defeat the original purpose of removing the gun .
( Answer completely rewritten based on new information ) Does the TSA plan to implement rules that require every prospective student to seek pre-approval from a government agent ( not just a flight school ) prior to beginning flight training ? Not exactly . US citizens can still start flight training whenever they want . But from April 1 , 2016 pre-approval from " a government agent " ( the TSA ) is required prior to soloing . Foreigners will still need TSA approval before starting flight training . The final rule on this has now been <URL> and the TSA will indeed vet all student pilots , as of 1 April 2016 ( my emphasis ) : This action requires applicants to apply for a student pilot certificate through a Flight Standards District Office , designated pilot examiner , airman certification representative associated with a pilot school , or certified flight instructor . Aviation Medical Examiners will no longer issue a combination medical certificate and student pilot certificate . Student pilot certificates will be issued on the same medium as other pilot certificates and will have no expiration date . All student pilot certificates issued before the effective date of this final rule will expire according to their terms unless they are replaced by another pilot certificate . This final rule responds to section 4012 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act and facilitates security vetting by the Transportation Security Administration of student pilot applicants prior to certificate issuance . This action withdraws the proposal for pilot certificates to include a photograph of the individual pilot . But note that a student pilot 's license is still not required in order to start training , it 's only required in order to solo . So under this new rule , a US citizen can start flight training as usual , but ca n't solo until he gets TSA approval for his student pilot application : IRTPA [ the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act ] required that security vetting of all individuals , including pilots , must be successfully completed by TSA before the FAA issues a certificate . Therefore , applicants for student pilot certificates must be vetted to receive their certificates and operate an aircraft as pilot in command . This also means that AMEs will no longer issue student certs , only medical certificates . The FAA expects that processing will take several weeks , which may be an issue for accelerated training programs that aim to get you a full pilot 's license in a month or less : The FAA estimates that the turnaround time for student pilot certificates can be reduced to an average of 3 weeks or less , provided that initial security vetting by TSA indicates that the applicant is eligible for the certificate . There was also some concern that it would n't be possible for pilots to solo on their 16th birthday any more because of the processing time , but the FAA <URL> , essentially by asking students to submit their application well in advance . On the ' plus ' side , the new regulation specifically says that pilots licenses will still not have a photograph ( at least for now ) , which would have added more time and costs to the whole process . And the new student certificates will be plastic , not paper .
Landing distance is a function of the formula Any change that will increase kinetic energy will require longer landing distances . When we land , the kinetic energy needs to go somewhere . It can be converted into heat with the brakes , opposed with drag from the thrust reversers or deployed spoilers Higher landing speed will cause an increase kinetic energy that must be converted on landing and thus you will have a longer landing distance . Braking , thrust reverser or spoiler issues will increase the landing distance because they will not be as effective ( take more time ) in converting kinetic energy . In a hydraulic issue , most likely the manufacturer has chosen to fly the airplane at a speed greater than needed for a normal landing ( VREF + 20 ) and will most likely not have the ability to use normal braking . Most jets use hydraulic fluid to stop the brakes . In the jets I fly , without normal braking means we use the emergency brakes which are not routed through the anti-skid system so precaution must be taken to not skid the tires . This all adds up to a substantial landing distance penalty . Hare the landing distances for some airplanes . Learjet family : Factor of 3.15 Learjet 45 family : Factor of 2.2 Challenger 604 family : Factor of 1.7 ( braking ) times 1.8 ( airspeed ) for a total of 3.06
The two main reasons for wings with a subsonic leading edge are : The lower lift coefficient in supersonic flight , and the need to keep wing thickness down in order to minimize wave drag in supersonic flight . Your observation is correct : The lift-related drag coefficient is proportional to the inverse of the aspect ratio , regardless of flight regime for slender bodies . In all cases , lift is created by accelerating air downwards , and efficiency is better when <URL> . But another factor is the lift coefficient , the square of it to be precise . Again this influence on drag is equal for sub - and supersonic flight , but the magnitude of the lift coefficient is n't . Take the XB-70 , for example ( <URL> ) : Cruise lift coefficient : 0.1 to 0.13 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.01 to 0.0169 Takeoff lift coefficient : 1.3 to 0.73 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 1.69 to 0.533 Landing lift coefficient : 0.626 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.392 Even at the highest supersonic cruise lift coefficient , the approximated lift-dependent drag coefficient is only 4.3 % of what it is at landing speed . Supersonic drag is dominated by pressure and friction , and the cost of lift creation is dwarfed by the other sources of drag . Or let 's look at another aircraft designed for sustained supersonic flight , or more specific , it 's flight envelope ( <URL> ) : <URL> The aircraft operates in a narrow band of dynamic pressures , trading density for speed to stay within a corridor of 310 KIAS to 450 KIAS when flying at supersonic speed . Here the lift coefficient is roughly between 0.1 and 0.3 ( depending on aircraft mass and load factor ) and again much lower than at low speed , where minimum speed drops to 145 KIAS . Note that the lift wave drag formula for slender bodies is only strictly true for $ AR$ approaching zero . At higher aspect ratios and especially with a supersonic leading edge this relationship is diminished . In supersonic flow the aspect ratio only comes into play by influencing the part of the wing that is within the Mach cone of the wingtip . In other words : The supersonic flow around a slender body is everywhere influenced by tip effects , whereas the inner and forward part of a higher aspect ratio wing experiences two-dimensional flow , being blissfully unaware of lateral limitations to wingspan . Now to the structural factor : Wave drag has two components , one from lift and the other from the displacement effect . <URL> at <URL> must be avoided as much as possible , because it is doubly punished : Surfaces facing in flight direction experience higher pressure than ambient , and those facing backwards experience lower pressure ( i.e. suction ) . In all , zero-lift wave drag increases with the square of the thickness ratio , so there is no space in supersonic wings for the beefy spar a high aspect ratio wing would require .
The short answer is that the privileges are what the rating confers , and there are ways to get those privileges other than having the rating . A commercial pilot licensee in most jurisdictions that follow ICAO certification guidelines may fly small planes for hire , doing service as a courier , air taxi , crop duster , etc. . These do not necessarily require flying in IMC or in Class A airspace , and so a CPL holder must also have a separate " instrument rating certification " in order to fly IFR . ATPL licensees fly in Class A as a matter of course , and that also often requires ascending and descending through the cloud ceiling which is IMC by definition . Therefore , the requirements for an ATPL in ICAO-compliant jurisdictions inherently include those required for the " instrument rating " applied separately to lower certification levels ( private/commercial ) , and the resulting license for an airline pilot confers the same " instrument privileges " that the rating would . Thus the difference in terminology ; an ATPL holder in another country has " instrument privileges " as a consequence of his basic license and so does not need a specific " instrument rating " . The same is not true for CPLs and so the law specifically requires the instrument rating as a prereq for a foreign CPL seeking an FAA ATPL .
You 've got two unrelated problems : The battery and the smell . The Battery Battery electrolyte does n't really have a " smell " to it - at least not one you 're going to notice in the cabin easily . If you open the cell caps on a newly-topped-off flooded battery and sniff you 'll get a feeling for what the electrolyte smells like . If you have a sealed battery you 're not going to smell electrolyte unless the battery completely loses its mind and vents a large quantity of electrolyte - you 'd definitely notice the mess in the battery box if that happened . You may notice it in a conventional flooded-cell battery if the battery is overcharged ( from high bus voltage , or from trying to charge a flat battery after jump-starting the plane ) , but again it 's not going to be readily apparent in the cabin unless you 've lost a large quantity of electrolyte or you 're really boiling the battery from an over-charge . If your battery 's cells are full ( or it 's a sealed battery ) and you did n't leave the master switch on then the likely cause of it being flat is that it 's old and ca n't handle the low temperatures of winter anymore ( or if it 's a new battery it may have developed an internal fault and discharged itself ) . If you left the master switch on putting the battery on a charger/conditioner overnight can usually bring it back to good operating condition . You can try that on a flat battery from an unknown cause too : The good charger/conditioners will warn you if they think the battery has an internal fault . If an overnight charge does n't resolve the issue then you 're going to need to replace the battery before further flight ( and frankly replacing the battery is cheap insurance against getting stranded somewhere , so it merits consideration anyway ) . The Smell The smell of 100LL changes as it evaporates - lighter aromatic components vaporize faster , and will waft out of the cabin more quickly , leaving the smell from the heavier hydrocarbons lingering . <URL> avgas that 's been evaporating for a while loses the characteristic benzene/toluene scent we 're familiar with from sumping the tanks and has the general odor of turpentine/conventional mineral spirits ( " paint thinner " ) . The first thing to check in the PA28 when you smell something like this in the cabin is the fuel selector valve , as it 's a common failure point particularly in cold weather : The packing/tapered plug in the fuel selector valve has shrunk in the cold , and you 're leaking fuel around the shaft ( which is then soaking into the carpet and evaporating off , giving you the smell in the cabin ) . Other aircraft may have similar failure modes in their fuel selectors , but I 'm a Piper guy so I can really only speak to their systems and associated quirks :-) Since your shop identified the fuel selector as the problem it 's an easy fix : Rebuild or replace the fuel valve and the leak will stop , probably for many years . ( <URL> is relevant to this issue for older Pipers - the O-ring identified in the exploded diagram dries out and shrinks/cracks , allowing avgas to leak around the shaft . There may be something similar in Piper 's service documents for the Warrior II , I 'm not sure if it uses the same internal valve or not ) Another common failure point would be the O-rings around the primer plunger in aircraft with a mechanical primer ( anything before the Warrior III ) . This does n't normally manifest as a lingering smell in the cabin but rather a smell when you operate the primer plunger ( usually also accompanied by the plunger being stiff/hard to operate ) . Much like the fuel selector it tends to manifest when the weather gets cold and things shrink or become brittle , and the cure is to disassemble and appropriately service the plunger mechanism ( replace the O-rings and re-lube the mechanism with a fuel-safe lubricant ) .
end question
start question
Why are the outboard Krueger Flaps retracted before the others on the B747 ?
This is from memory and applies to 747-100/200 aircraft , which I last flew in 1999 . The video shows , I think , a -400 . However , to the best of my knowledge , it has the same flap settings . The flap selection handle detents and resulting device positions are : 0 & deg ; -- leading and trailing edge retracted 1 & deg ; -- leading edge inboard of the engines extended , trailing edge up 5 & deg ; -- all leading edge extended , trailing edge 5 & deg ; 10 & deg ; -- all leading edge extended , trailing edge 10 & deg ; 20 & deg ; -- all leading edge extended , trailing edge 20 & deg ; 30 & deg ; -- all leading edge extended , trailing edge 30 & deg ; At least one carrier , TWA , but maybe others , ordered aircraft with additional setting . I seem to remember 15 & deg ; and 40 & deg ; , but the above was the ' standard ' . Why the staggered retraction ? On takeoff , it 's all about changing the wing from a low-speed wind to a high-speed wing . Normal takeoff flap setting for the -100 / 200 was 10 & deg ; . I think it 's 20 & deg ; for the -400 but I never flew them . As you retract the flaps ( both leading and trailing edge ) , the minimum safe airspeed increases approximately 20 knots for each decrease in flap extension . That gave you a safe bank angle of 15 & deg ; . Add 10 more knots and you could , as I remember , bank 30 & deg ; . So , in the video the airplane is accelerating , and flaps are being retracted in stages as it reaches the minimum safe airspeed for that stage . I 'm not knowledgeable enough to authoritatively explain why , if you want to change part of a swept wing to a lower-lift wing while leaving part of it as a higher-lift wing , you need to make the change to lower-lift from outboard to inboard , but I do know , at least I think , that you must avoid the possibility of the outboard wing stalling while the inboard is still flying . You need to retain outboard aileron control as long as possible . Thus , retract the outboard leading edge devices before the inboard devices . Does each leading-edge flap configuration have its own unique setting on the pilot 's flap-control lever ? No , the leading edge flaps do not have a separate selection . They 're tied to the trailing edge flap setting . Note that flaps 1 & deg ; does n't actually put any trailing edge flaps down ( although I seem to remember it took them out of the retract position and moved them backwards , but I may be wrong ) , but extends only two of the four leading edge flap sections . On approach , are the leading-edge flaps extended in a reverse staggered order ? Yes . On approach you 're slowing , and you must not slow below the minimum safe speed for your flap setting . Those speeds will be lower than the respective takeoff speeds because you 're lighter . I just looked up the fuel for a -400 that I have on my weight and balance web page , and it shows 359415 max fuel . Thus it 's not unreasonable that you might be as much as 340000 lbs lighter than at takeoff and the minimum safe airspeed for a given flap setting could conceivably be in the range of 40 to 50 knots slower than at takeoff . For those interested in more detail about the -400 leading edge devices , go to <URL> detailing an un-commanded retraction of the leading edge devices inboard of the engines . The single paragraph that most caught my attention is : The serious incident involved the un-commanded retraction of the automatic Group ' A ' leading edge flaps on rotation for a period of about 23 seconds . Subsequent to the initiation of the retraction of the Group ' A ' leading edge flaps , the aircrew was faced with unexpected stall warnings . The pilot flying was able to prevent the aircraft from stalling , with support from the other crew members and to keep the aircraft flying until the leading edge flaps re-extended and normal performance capability returned .
Well , first let 's clear up a few terms . When you say " rotary " engine I 'm assuming you 're referring to <URL> , a type of piston engine that used to be pretty common on aircraft . ( These days <URL> are what you typically find on piston-powered aircraft , <URL> are yet another design , but their usage died out around the end of World War I. ) The TU-95 is not actually a piston-powered aircraft - it 's a <URL> -- basically a turbine engine similar to what you 'd find in a jet , only rigged up to turn a propeller rather than produce " jet thrust " directly . From an efficiency standpoint , turbine engines are usually more fuel efficient than their piston counterparts , and jet fuel is produced in greater volume than aviation gasoline and is consequently cheaper for operators to procure . Turbine engines also offer more reliability than piston engines , and the maintenance on a turboprop engine is also largely similar to a jet engine with a few extra components , which is an advantage for a company operating a fleet of jet and propeller driven aircraft . The differences in operating efficiency and reliability are the major reason why gasoline-powered piston engines have basically disappeared from scheduled airline service . So why do n't we see more turboprops ? Actually we see a lot of them , if you look in the right places . Jets and Turboprops are good at different things -- broadly simplifying , a turboprop is more efficient at lower altitudes and airspeeds while a jet engine is more efficient at higher altitudes and airspeeds . As a result we see turboprop aircraft like <URL> in use for short-haul " commuter " service , but for trans-continental or trans-oceanic flights where they spend a long time cruising at high altitude jets dominate the sky . Since most people are flying to go relatively long distances there are comparatively more jets in scheduled airline service than turboprops . Noise is probably also a factor - fast turboprops like the Bear are LOUD not due to the engine , but due to the propeller . The tips of the spinning propeller on a TU-95 can approach supersonic speeds , which causes quite a bit of noise . The TU-95 's <URL> ( which help produce thrust more efficiently ) also contribute to a louder noise footprint . In the case of the TU-95 this does n't matter - it 's a military plane , and the Russian air force does n't care if people complain as the aircraft has a mission to complete and that 's more important than a few noise complaints . If United Airlines were to operate a TU-95 out of Kennedy departing over people 's houses I suspect they would quickly reconsider their choice of equipment when the noise complaints started coming in ...
The short answer is , it depends . The FAA Airplane Flying Handbook merely states that this can be performed once the aircraft has established positive climb , but does not specify exactly when . Ultimately two situations arise : The airplane is sufficiently large/high performance that normal operating procedures specify the use of flaps for all takeoff scenarios , in which case the manufacturer or the operator ( if applicable ) may well specify a flap retraction schedule , which seeks to allow the aircraft to accelerate effectively during climb out , avoid overstressing the flaps by having the aircraft fly past the maximum speed for each flap setting , while at the same time maintain a comfortable margin above stall speed . The airplane only requires flaps for certain kinds of takeoffs such as maximum performance or soft-field efforts . In that case , procedures may be somewhat looser in defining the exact moment of flap retraction . A climb checklist , should you choose to use one , will likely mention the flap configuration as an action/verification item , so that would likely be a good moment to retract them if you have n't done so already . Personally , I usually retract them passing thru 200-300 feet AGL , which usually coincides to the aircraft being at least half-way between clean configuration Vx and Vy ( I 've been mostly flying Skyhawks , Skylanes , Arrows , and Huskies ) . Whichever way you do it though , you want to avoid retracting them too low and too slow , but also forgetting about them and blowing through Vfe ( which even light , slow airplanes can do quite handily ) . With respect to the actual changes in aircraft behavior the changes , you 'll likely notice the following things : A slight-nose down moment as wing 's characteristics change , which influences the airflow reaching your horizontal stabilizer . The converse applies when extending flaps . Mind you , this is an airplane model-specific thing and one that seemed most noticeable to me in the Cessna family of light singles . Fort he same power setting and pitch attitude , the aircraft will begin to accelerate quicker for each notch of flap retraction . Climb rate is trickier as it is dependent on you power setting , airspeed , and pitch angle ; your inputs will matter . However , generally speaking , the reduction in drag would lead to a greater difference between power available ( or power set ) and power required , so , all things being equal , you would likely see an increase in climb rate .
The document you cite actually goes on to explain what the procedure is for calculators , and when testing centers can prevent you from using your own ( you 'll be provided a loaner ) : Testing centers may provide a calculator to you and/or deny use of your personal calculator based on the following limitations : a. Prior to , and upon completion of the test , while in the presence of the Unit Member ( formerly referred to as proctor ) , you must actuate the ON/OFF switch and perform any other function that ensures erasure of any data stored in memory circuits . b . The use of electronic calculators incorporating permanent or continuous type memory circuits without erasure capability is prohibited . The Unit Member may refuse the use of your calculator when unable to determine the calculator 's erasure capability . [ ... ] Basically , you can bring a graphing calculator and wipe it , but unless the center is able to confirm that you 've removed all stored memory , they 're probably just gon na say " nah " and hand you a basic calculator . There 's a pretty good chance that your graphing calculator falls under the " permanent or continuous type memory circuits " category anyway .
The blades are loose in their " Fir Tree " blade mounts so that they can self balance . They are called " fir tree " because they are v shaped . As the rotation speed and centrifugal force increases , they move in the mounts and establish individual lead/lag positions to achieve a balanced disc . It will be understood that turbine wheels rotate at very high speeds of rotation , thereby generating large centirfugal forces tending to throw the blades outwardly from the wheel . By providing contact surfaces of equal and opposite slope with respect to the longitudinal axis of the root on opposite sides of root , the force components of the centrifugal force balance each other out . Periodic and other vibrations which might otherwise be generated are damped out and greatly minimized Source : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Most airliners have a protection system for this which is based on Weight-on-Wheels ( WoW ) : sensors which detect load on the wheels ( which implies that the aircraft is in contact with ground ) . For safety reasons this can be bypassed and there 's usually a small lever in connection to the gear lever to do this . This image illustrates the 737 gear lever where you can clearly see a " lock override " which fills this functionality ( red part ) <URL>
They do this for the same reason they make you <URL> during that period of flight . The first minutes of a flight ( take off and climb out ) as well as the last few ( approach and landing ) are the most critical and statistically the time that if things are going wrong they will go wrong . As such airlines shut down the IFE systems and ask users to shut down personal devices so that they can hear , and more importantly respond to any emergency directions that may be given during this critical time .
The sprays are ( usually ) insecticides used to prevent the spread of invasive species and diseases . " The process of ' disinsection ' is required under the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) on flights to and from certain destinations to prevent infectious and contagious diseases carried by insects and other volatile bodies . Rules established by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) require that disinsection does not injure or cause discomfort to passengers or crew . These rules permit the use of certain insecticides , which have the approval of and are recommended by the WHO based on their effectiveness and safety . " From the <URL>
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
You are absolutely correct , <URL> . But tradition and a subjective feeling of being treated better means that people will prefer to be seated facing forward . Some even claim that they develop motion sickness when sitting backwards . This can indeed be the case for some people in trains with their big windows , but much less so in aircraft . Just note which seats will be occupied last in a train with lounge/mixed seating . In order to cram the highest number of passengers into their planes , the airlines would need to convert all seats to the backward orientation , and you can be sure there will be some passengers who will complain . If passenger safety would be important to them , airlines could already use better seatbelts , like the 5-point-harnesses used in gliders and aerobatics planes , but they all use the minimum lap belt which is mandated and nothing more . Convenience and cost always win over safety . Now I need to mention two caveats : If passengers should be seated backwards , the industry needs to develop new seats . It will not be helpful to turn existing seats around - they would collapse at much lower loads than what a backward-sitting human can sustain . However , to fully support these higher loads , seats will be more heavy and possibly even the floor structure needs to be beefed up . Backward-facing seating will only help in the fraction of cases where deceleration loads are too high for a forward-facing person , but low enough to make the crash survivable . If the plane flies into a mountain or ditches and sinks before people get out , the better seating will not help . Some military transports have backward-facing seats . In some crashes , the survivability rate was seven times higher in those than in forward-facing seats . Early air travel also used mixed seating , e.g. on the Zeppelins or the <URL> . One airline to use mixed seating was Southwest Airlines with their <URL> , and business jets have mixed seating as standard . Thanks to @reirab for pointing out that United Business class also has some backward-facing seats . Cabin of the Do-X . No seatbelts , seats not bolted to the floor . These were the days ... Cabin of the Dassault Falcon 7X business jet .
The key thing is that not every flight is the same . Sometimes the landing gear is left up for longer for noise abatement , sometimes it goes out earlier if more drag is required . On a non-straight in approach it 's sometimes a good idea to extend the gear earlier . If the brakes heat up too much on the taxi before takeoff , the gear may need to be left down for a bit for extra cooling . Flaps are a bit different as they are typically set for a certain speed , but the principle still applies . For example if turbulence is encountered which effects the airspeed , having the autopilot moving the flaps the second the flap movement speed is triggered is unhelpful . Basically , these are things that require the active judgement of the pilots considering the individual factors of that specific flight . It 's impossible to automate all of this satisfactorily even with pre-planning . Even if you could it would further introduce an overreliance on automation for very little gain .
If you are seated behind the wings , but close , you can usually see black markings ( thick line and a number ) near the inboard side of the engine pylon which indicate their extension . Some might not be visible when the wing is in cruise configuration . Same goes for leading edge slats , only you 'd need to be seated near the overwing emergency exit to see those . I 've personally seen them on both Airbus and Embraer jets ( no recent flights on Boeing airframes so ca n't confirm if they mark them too ) . <URL> ( <URL> )
You are missing the weight force . The wing should stall first because then it will produce less lift and the weight will make the aircraft pitch down . In attached flow , the lift from wing and tail is <URL> such that the combined resulting force is acting exactly at the longitudinal position of the center of gravity . If the wing stalls , the balance of lift is shifted backwards ( regardless of the tail producing lift or a downforce ) , because now the forward part of the wing-tail-combination will produce proportionally less lift than it did in attached flow . The center of gravity will then be ahead of the resulting lift force and will pull the nose of the aircraft down . A tail stall is bad news for the pilot and should be avoided : A stalled tail will have much less elevator effectivity , reducing the control power available to the pilot A stalled tail at high angle of attack is stalling at maximum lift , so it produced positive lift before . If it stalls , its lift will shrink and make the aircraft pitch up . In a conventional configuration the tail flies in the flow field of the wing . Because the wing 's <URL> , the angle of attack variations at the tail are reduced . This helps to keep the flow at the tail attached over the whole useable angle of attack range of the wing . A tail stall is either caused by a wrong location of the center of gravity ( CG ) or by a very poor transsonic design which causes <URL> when the wing is still doing fine . Very rarely can you stall the tail by a wrong trim setting when a <URL> , or in a <URL> . Some supersonic aircraft compensate for the backward shift of the center of lift in supersonic flow by pumping fuel from forward to rear . If an airplane with such a rear CG location slows down to subsonic speed , it will need to produce proportionally more lift with the tail than with the wing . If it now pitches up ( say , for a tight turn ) it will risk a tail stall . Note that such a configuration is <URL> at subsonic speed . EDIT : Now you define the center of gravity as ahead of the wing , which makes for a very stable configuration . The tail is producing a downforce to compensate the pitch-down action of the wing 's lift . If the wing stalls first , lift will become less than weight and the aircraft will accelerate downwards . Now the angle of attack will increase at both the tail and the wing ; at the tail even for two reasons : The downward acceleration will change the local flow direction to a larger angle of attack , and The diminished downwash from the wing will cause an angle of attack increase of its own at the tail . This effect takes a little longer to manifest itself : The delay is the distance between the quarter points of tail and wing divided by the airspeed . Both effects will quickly create a dominant pitch-down moment for the aircraft because the tail will contribute much less downforce than before the stall , and the diminished pitch-down moment of the wing will become insignificant .
I 'll address these one by one . Should shoulder harnesses be installed , at least to enable passengers to decide to use them or not ? No . They would not serve a significant purpose to improve safety in those seats , and they would add weight and increase maintenance costs for airlines . Keep reading , and this will come to light collectively with my full answer . Why would shoulder harnesses be obligated for flight attendants in their jump seats , but not for passengers ? Those seats are n't lined up in rows , therefore there is no seat in front of them that they would hit and be stopped by . Think of it like a school bus with no seat belts ; the passengers will be stopped by the seat in front of them in a low-force crash , but the bus driver wears a seat belt because there is a steering wheel and windshield in front of them , not a padded seat . How is 4 true ? ( It is superfluous in a crash when compared to the same safety from a lap belt ) Essentially , if there is a crash that will kill people , the shoulder harness will not be the thing that makes a difference . The lap belt is n't really even there for crashes . Extreme turbulence could throw someone up out of a seat ; a lap belt is sufficient to prevent this . A shoulder strap is designed to reduce impact with an object on board a vehicle . A car , we can safely assume , will remain in one piece if it hits a concrete wall . Airplanes do not have structures designed to withstand impacts like that . If a plane disintegrates in a crash , the passenger , packaged along with the lap belt , shoulder strap , and all , will come to impact the external object directly due to structural failure . No seat belt can save you from a total structural failure . Do the safety benefits not outweigh the costs ? Since there really is no safety benefit whatsoever in adding them in the seats that do n't already have them , no . It would be security theater that costs airlines a lot of money . Regarding Pilots Notice I highlighted the low-force impact statement up above in regards to buses . Let 's say there is a low-force impact in a plane such as a taxiing crash that jars everyone on board . The passengers will hit the seats in front of them , not that the seats are even necessary to prevent injury . However the pilots , on the other hand , have a lot of hard instrumentation in front of them such as throttle quadrants , and other things you do n't want accidentally shoved forward during a ground crash .
In flight mode the stick commands a load-factor . Which means it will be impossible to flare the aircraft , because as you pull on the stick , you 'll be commanding a positive g-load . Because of this the Airbus has a flare mode which activates at 50 ' RA . At 50 ' the pitch angle is stored ( memorized ) . At 30 ' the aircraft commands a 2 ° nose down ( it takes 8 seconds ) . The pilot would gently counter this by pulling back , resulting in a nice flare and no increase in the auto-thrust . If the pilot did not float for way too long ( they should not ) , the plane will touchdown before the 8 seconds pass , further eliminating the need to push forward on the stick to keep the nose gear planted . The logic reverts to ground mode when two conditions are met : on ground for 5 seconds and pitch angle < 2.5 ° . If the 5 seconds pass and the nose is still +2.5 ° , the logic will remain in the flare mode and the THS will not reset to 0 ° . The pitch will revert to the one set at 50 ' . As the plane continues to slow down this may result in a nasty nose landing gear slam or a tail strike depending on the stored pitch angle and any gusts ( kind of like <URL> ) . <URL> I do recommend you check your company 's Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) and to not use the internet for flight . If your instructor does not like too many ' why ' questions during class , you can try and ask them after class . When you get your answers , try to validate them from the FCOM . Some <URL> have custom logic set by Airbus . So the installed logic may differ .
Some aircraft have little friction skids that slow the wheels down , especially on nosewheels where there are not normally brakes . On main and body gear , the brakes are ( automatically on larger aircraft ) momentarily applied during the retraction process to stop them from rotating .
It is a mixture of factors . All else being the same : a contrail at a higher altitude will last longer ( the lower temperature slows the sublimation of the ice cristals ) a contrail formed in air with higher humidity will be bigger and last longer ( more water is being turned into ice ) If there is not enough ( relative ) humidity , the contrail will not form at all . See for example this image : Image from <URL> The contrails start forming on the east , near the clouds where you have a higher humidity , and do not form on the west , where no cloud is present and you have higher temperature/lower humidity . I 've often noticed that planes flying on more or less the same track , headed in the same direction leaves different contrails . What you observe might be airplanes flying at different altitudes and thus encountering different humidity/temperature combinations , giving birth to contrails with different histories .
The inner window is just a plastic protective cover , so that you do n't touch the glass , which is probably very cold at altitude . You 'll notice on the inner window there is a tiny hole at the bottom to equalize pressure and prevent condensation . <URL> See this <URL> that explains it
Go to the toilet before departure , and hope you can find somewhere to land if nature calls suddenly :) Same really as before a long car journey today ... Of course aircraft of that time did n't have very long endurance , so the situation was n't likely to arise that you 'd need to make a pit stop to let nature take its course . You 'd have a scheduled stop anyway well before that .
For a jetliner , the ' why early ' is to test the auto flight system . Turning on the F/D also turns on the <URL> ( FMA ) and displays the armed modes . So it 's an early check that all systems are go . <URL> From a 777 manual , any fault will be indicated on the FMA as it reads above . Here are the flow checks pertaining to the F/D and FMA during the cockpit setup : <URL>
end question
start question
Why has European union banned several airlines ?
I think the policy is completely justified . An analogy : You would n't allow an unsafe and unapproved car onto a highway in Europe where it presents a unjust danger to everybody else . You have to remember that the European Union is a fairly compact bunch of nations : To get to Paris from Southeast Asia or Africa , you 're probably looking at overflying at least two or three other countries . Thus , a single flight will have wider implications and involve multiple nations . The policy keeps everybody somewhat happy that they have safe airlines in their airspace . It also keeps their own citizens off the airline in question . I do not think that it is a question of ' caring ' . If they do not feel that the airline can safely fly , they ban it . Note that a fair number of the EU blacklist are automatically banned by country if they have insufficient oversight . It 's also not a permanent ' thing ' or sentence . Garuda Indonesia was on the EASA blacklist for two years until they brushed up , and are now back flying into the EU . Perhaps it might even have been good , since it pushed the company to improve their standards ? Here is a recent quote on the Iraqi Airlines ban : ATW understands from unidentified sources that 600 non-EU airlines had applied for TCO authorization . Most had been granted with few problems , but a small number of airlines were subject to greater scrutiny because of their perceived high-risk status . <URL> While perhaps less prominent , I think the United States will quickly block any unsafe airline from coming in , although perhaps on a more case-by-case basis . I believe there are other hurdles , such as airport security requirements , that have to be settled to fly into the United States and can act as barriers . I believe the same applies for any other nation . Other countries say no as well , just perhaps not being as ' vocal ' : Some Thai-registered airlines earlier faced flight restrictions by Japan , South Korea and Indonesia , following an audit of Thailand 's air operations by the UN-based International Civil Aviation Organisation . In June the agency raised a red flag over aviation safety standards and gave the country until November to tackle the issue . Meanwhile , the US Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) last Friday gave Thailand 65 days to address shortcomings it had found . <URL>
Yes , it would be really amazing if it had never happened . Since " reports " are only required in the case of accidents , here are extracts from three NTSB summaries : <URL> During descent for an off-airport pinnacle landing , the helicopter encountered a downdraft about 75 to 100 feet above ground level ( agl ) , and the pilot receiving instruction increased collective input . The flight instructor advised the pilot receiving instruction to be less aggressive using the collective as the flight continued to the landing area . As the helicopter descended through about 10 to 25 feet agl , it encountered a second downdraft , and the pilot receiving instruction increased collective again , which was followed by a decrease in rotor rpm . <URL> During the approach to the 5,657 foot level site , the pilot said he encountered a downdraft as the helicopter approached the site , and the helicopter descended below his anticipated approach path . He initiated a go-around , but the helicopter continued to descend , and landed hard , about 150 feet short and down slope of his intended touchdown point . <URL> As he flew the helicopter out of the leeward side of the peak , he encountered a downdraft . He maneuvered the helicopter toward a wide open valley that descended about 5,000 feet below . The downdraft pushed the helicopter into the face of the mountain , despite the pilot 's application of full collective and descending flight into the valley .
Yes . <URL> Top result : <URL> Perhaps the most intriguing product floated by HBC at its NBAA press conference was a single-engine turboprop . The company says the airplane has no public name or designation but will " absolutely , " said Holcombe , be " called a King Air . " That name , of course , has never been bestowed upon a single-engine airplane before . This King Air , however , will be no scaled-back PT-6 single . Like the remarkably roomy and powerful Pilatus PC-12 , the Beechcraft single will be big . Its fuselage will be -- get this -- based on that of the Premier 1A , which , HBC claims , has the best cabin of any bizjet in its class . It will certainly be huge for a single . In addition to the voluminous cabin , the single would feature a large side loading door , room for eight to 11 occupants and industry-leading pressurization . The composite fuselage allows for efficient pressurization . HBC says it will build the fuselage in the same way it builds the Premier 1A today , using state-of-the-art winding technology for extremely light and strong composite structures . <URL>
Because the third engine would need to be near on centerline . That means in the tail . Putting the engine in the tail significantly changes its design requirements . Supporting an engine requires a lot of structural support . Then you need to run fuel to it . The effective height of the rudder is decreased . You probably need to switch over to a T-tail . The center of mass is also shifted which influences where the wings need to go . In short , adding a single engine requires a redesign of the entire tail . While adding an engine to the wings is much simpler .
Are you in a wet or coastal environment ? You can store a " Cessna type " plane outside for a few months and be ok . Most flight school planes live outside for years and do just fine . Do n't use a tarp . You might damage antennas , windows , or paint . Custom fitted covers are good but they 're also expensive . Do n't just start the plane and let it idle . That hurts the engine more than it helps . To do any good , the engine must reach and sustain normal operating temperature until the moisture boils off . A quick flight can accomplish this .
NASA added a second cockpit to their Boeing 737-100 , located in the forward cabin . History is a bit patchy , but I believe this was initially to see if it was possible to fly the plane by camera . This might be required by a supersonic design where windows would be impossible ( also known as a ' virtual cockpit ' ) . I understand it has been used for all sort of experiments since then . NASA 515 is the first B-737 built . First used by Boeing to qualify the 737 for airline service , the prototype 737 has since been heavily modified by NASA . It has two separate cockpits - a conventional B-737 forward cockpit providing operational support and safety backup , and an operational research flight deck positioned behind in what was the aircraft 's first-class cabin section . The <URL> involving this aircraft are listed on their website . <URL> Credits : NASA <URL> Credits : Museum of Flight
I 'll answer for the US . As long as there 's no official slot program , airlines can schedule however much they want to an airport , beyond what it should be capable of handling . Now that does n't mean ATC lets a free-for all happen . Hopefully , various traffic management units are on it and aware of how much demand is scheduled and already airborne into the airport/region/area that there 's too much demand , and will implement various flow control programs to moderate the volume to what can be accepted into a specific sector ( Certain airways can get super busy and require these types of actions ) , or airport . These control programs will either slow aircraft farther out from their destination , hold , or give small to longer delays on the ground , depending on how over scheduled or limitations of weather at the destination . [ Begin edit poriton ] Since the other part of the question was n't there when I first answered , I 'll answer now . Slot controls vary heavily from airport to airport . In the US , LGA , LGB , DCA , SNA , and at times JFK are slot controlled , with a few others threatened to go to slots due to how many delays they impact the system ( SFO , EWR , and ORD ) . How each airport deals with the slot allocation is different due to how they got slot controls . DCA is controlled partly through congress , LGA and SNA are restricted due to noise controls . In the US , once an airline gets a slot , often times it 's considered transferable property , so airlines can sell them to each other if needed . Now if a slot is n't used and goes back to the airport , the airport can put it up for bid , or allow applications for it , again depending on how their program is structured . AT DCA , some slots are transferable , some require an act of congress to change or modify , and some can only be used for certain routes or types of cities .
If an aircraft encounters a serious problem quite soon after departure that forces it to land immediately , the aircraft may be above its certified maximum landing weight . This is because there is still a lot of fuel in the tanks , which adds a lot of weight . As @RonBeyer mentioned in a comment , landing overweight can have a number of serious consequences . When landing a heavy aircraft , stopping it on the runway already requires a lot of energy ( or rather , a lot of energy needs to be converted into something else ) . If the aircraft is heavier than it is designed to be on landing , this may cause excessive stress on the brakes . In extreme cases , this can make the brakes catch fire . Now , open flames under an aircraft that is almost fully loaded with fuel is the recipe for disaster . In some cases , even though the crew brakes hard on landing , the aircraft may be so heavy that stopping on the runway is impossible . A runway excursion will then follow ( a situation where the aircraft leaves the runway onto the grass or similar ) . This is not neccesarily dangerous , but it certainly can be , depending on the surrounding terrain : <URL> ( image from <URL> . This aircraft was not overweight , but I still think the situation shown in the picture is relevant to this question . ) Obviously , in an emergency ATC , and in turn the fire and rescue crew at the airport , need to be prepared for such events . If ATC expects an aircraft will be landing overweight , getting the crew to confirm this will allow ATC to inform the fire crew that they can expect brake fires or a potential runway excursion . It can also enable the rescue leader to position the fire vehicles at the best possible position , which would be further down the runway than normal , since the landing roll will be longer . So basically , it 's a way to get information to the rescue crew so that they can prepare for what might be coming . Depending on the type of emergency , ATC will also ask the crew about other details , in some cases also with the purpose of passing this information on to the rescue crew , since the rescue crew will normally not be in direct contact with the cockpit as long as the plane is in the air . See also this related question : <URL>
Not the FAA , but the manufacturer . If the parts are composite , only a small range of colors may be approved , depending on the <URL> of the resin matrix . For gliders , only white is allowed for most of the surface area , and similarly composite parts of airliners must be painted <URL> so they do n't heat up too much in sunlight . Curiously , the lower surface has the most restrictions , because here the reflected light from a concrete surface and the restricted ventilation create the highest surface temperatures . Next , the UV absorption capability , moisture protection characteristics and the chemical stability of the paint when in contact with aviation fuel , hydraulic fluids , de-icing fluids and other solvents is important . Composite gliders must use a special topcoat which is more brittle than the composite structure , so cracks will show up . Airliners may use more flexible paints , but must then undergo regular inspections of their composite parts . Metal surfaces are less demanding and can be painted in any color . Only the area in front of the windshield should be dark enough to reduce glare and irritating reflections .
The folding wingtips are found mostly in naval aviation . The reason is the space constraint inside the hangar of the aircraft carrier . <URL> " <URL> " by U.S. Navy Photo by Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class John P. Curtis . As can be seen from the photo , folding the wings offers the only practical way of fitting fighter aircraft inside the cramped hangar space . For example , the F/A -18 C/D had a wing span of 11.43 m ; this was reduced to 8.38 m with the wings folded , a 26 % reduction . However , the price to pay is increase in complexity , weight , price and increased maintenance . The figure shows the wing folding mechanism of a F 18 . <URL> Source : polepositionimagery.com.au The major drawbacks of folding wings are , The increased weight and complexity due to the folding mechanism . The folding mechanism takes time to operate and there are safety concerns if they get stuck in a position . The folding of wings limits the fuel capacity and as a result , the range of the aircraft , as fuel is usually not carried on the folding part of the wings . <URL> Source : zarco-macross . wikidot.com As can be seen , the F/A does n't carry fuel in the folding part of the wing . In fact , after the airlines did n't take up its folding concept in 777 , Boeing added fuel tanks to that area and increased range of 777-200/300 . There has previously been no reason for airliners to fold their wings , as airports offered enough space for operations and ground movement . However , as the size of aircraft and their aspect ratios grow ( to reduce drag ) , designers are finding it more and more difficult to keep the wingspan below the 80m ' box ' which airlines believe is the maximum they can cope up economically . The first major program to be affected by this limitation was the A380 , which limited the wingspan of the aircraft to less than 80m and reduced its aspect ratio . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> ( clem AT tillier.net ) - Original Work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.5 via <URL> . Basically , Boeing is facing the same problem . The proposed 777x is the aircraft with largest wingspan Boeing has ever produced . However , in case of A380 , Airbus managed to reduce induced drag through the use of wingtip fences , among other design decisions . 777x is expected to have a raked wingtip , which is not as space effective as the wingtip fence . <URL> Source : Flightglobal.com As a result , Boeing is considering folding wingtips . However , there are important differences between the original plan in 777 and the proposed plan in 777x . In the original plan , Boeing proposed to fold 21 ' of the wingtip . However , the new plans call for folding only 10 ' . <URL> Original Wing folding plan in Boeing 777 . Source : www.seattletimes.com <URL> Image : Boeing As can be seen from the figure , the folding plan is much more modest . This is not expected to have the drawbacks associated with the the original plan , as , The end of the wing will not house controls As the size of the wing to be folded is smaller , the folding mechanism will not be as heavy and complicated . That part probably not carry fuel Advances in actuation systems since the 777 will reduce the weight penalty To put things into perspective , the 747-400 winglets were 6 ' feet tall . Airlines have already placed orders for 777x and it is their operational record that will determine if other aviation manufacturers ( Airbus , that is . ) will follow suit .
You can find this information in the Airport Facility Directory which is published in print by the FAA and is available <URL> . REIL will be listed for the specific runway for the airport in question . For example I fly out of KDYL and if we take a look at the page in the AFD for KDYL you will see REIL listed for RWY 23 <URL> ( <URL> )
Best I can find , within the US , is KDFW with 80,403 ' of total length . Second seems to be KDEN with 76,000 ' . Glanced at KORD , and with mental math it comes up to about 71,000 ' . Most other major airports are well behind all of these , mainly because they do n't have as many long runways as DFW and DEN . Somebody else can consider Russian , Chinese , and Middle Eastern airports -- I do n't have the chart sets handy for those . May be worth converting this to a community wiki answer if any of those places give interesting results .
There are two philosophies for fleet selection : One type / model or one manufacturer approach Multi manufacturer divide and conquer approach First of all , a single model fleet is only possible for airlines that operate on sectors of comparable length . You ca n't do intercontinental and regional flights with the same aircraft model efficiently . As you observe , there are obviously costs associated with flying different types of aircraft . A single type fleet like for example Ryanair ( B738 ) , Southwest ( B73 * ) and Easyjet ( A320 family ) operate , means the cost of maintenance , training , etc can be kept low . Adding a few aircraft of another type to the fleet would mean additional tools in stock , diversified training and a separate flight crew group and lots of other cost factors . Aircraft manufacturers know that too . So if you need another 10 - 20 aircraft , your standard supplier will ask a high price for this fleet extension , knowing that the competition is never able to put in a compelling offer when all additional cost are taken into account . Only if the batch size is large enough the competitor might be able to offset the additional costs with a unit discount . That is where the mixed fleet operator has an advantage . Since the additional overhead costs of a couple extra aircraft from type A or B are minimal , they <URL> while negotiating with the manufacturers . Single manufacturer airlines usually order aircraft in <URL> , otherwise they would not get a proper deal ; multi type airlines can order aircraft in lower numbers . And then there are politics . Sometimes a national airline will be subjected to political pressure to buy from a certain manufacturer . This is especially the case for airlines operating in the international / intercontinental market . The extra fleet cost incurred will be ( partially ) offset by deals in another field .
Eurocontrol has an online repository of <URL> . You 'll need to register , but the basic service is free . By default , the application is JAVA applet based , which works not in the best way . After logging on , you can change the default behaviour to HTML based , which makes it more user friendly . Then clicking " Enter Application " will bring to the next level . Here you 'll find several reporting options , but what you are interested in is located under " PAMS Light [ AIP ] " Select the country you are interested in , " Charts " for AIP type and " AD " for Aerodrome and there you have the charts .
The estimated off block time , EOBT , which is the time at which the flight is planned to leave the gate at the departure airport , has a validity of + / -15 minutes . If the plane is not able to depart within this window , the company must send a new ATC flightplan with an updated EOBT . In some cases a calculated takeoff time , CTOT , is issued to a flight . This is the exact time the plane must begin its takeoff roll . It is given based on airspace or airport congestion along the planned route of the flight , to prevent overload in individual ATC sectors . The flight must begin its takeoff roll within -5 / +10 minutes of the CTOT . If unable to comply , a new CTOT must be requested .
1 . Money Meals are available at different prices . Most US airlines know you are n't choosing them on the basis of cuisine and pick the lowest priced meal they can get away with . Other airlines eg Emirates , Singapore compete by offering high customer services and so invest more money in better food and service . 2 . Culture Airlines which are mostly flying a home market will adapt the food to the traditions of the country . EL-AL are n't going to be serving bacon cheese-burgers and Air India used to do very good veggie curries .
We might speculate why the METAR is giving innaccurate data , but the question asks , " What should one do ... " I will take the liberty of inferring the question to be " what should one do if one is unable to obtain an altimeter setting for the airport from which he or she is preparing to depart ? " Note that this question could be asked due to an airport with a faulty weather reporting system ( as in the question above ) , an airport without weather reporting at all ( quite common , for example : <URL> or <URL> ) , or an aircraft that is not radio equipped . I will further take the liberty of answering from what I know : the FAA regulations . I will point out that it is the pilot 's responsibility to be familiar with all available information and this should include a thorough weather briefing whenever possible . Under the FAA 's jurisdiction , the relevant regulation is <URL> : ( a ) Each person operating an aircraft shall maintain the cruising altitude or flight level of that aircraft , as the case may be , by reference to an altimeter that is set , when operating -- ( 1 ) Below 18,000 feet MSL , to -- ( i ) The current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft ; ( ii ) If there is no station within the area prescribed in paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section , the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station ; or ( iii ) In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio , the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure ( Since all airports and terrain in the US are below 18,000 MSL , this applies to takeoff ; the rules governing flight above 18,000 -- <URL> -- do not apply to our question . " Operate " is defined in <URL> . ) We can go through this like a flowchart : If " the current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft " is available , use that . ( Note that this could include current reported altimeter settings obtained by radio ( ATC , flight service , or a nearby airport ) , phone call ( briefer or AWOS ) , internet , or any other method that would procure the needed data . ) If no such station is available , then use " the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station . " Now , if the aircraft in question is not equipped with a radio , then ( and I would read technically only then ) the pilot is permitted to set the altimeter to " the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure . " Now , that being said , if a pilot is in the middle of the Idaho backcountry at Wilson Bar <URL> , or on the face of an Alaskan glacier , with no cell reception and no real way to acquire a current reported altimeter setting despite being in a radio equipped aircraft , then actual practice will be to set the altimeter to field elevation and get on with it . However , the requirement to use a current reported altimeter setting remains , and should be acquired at the first available opportunity .
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
They do in fact exist , though they often use smaller helicopters . A Google search on the term " heli taxi " yields thousands of results , and while a lot are probably irrelevant , the first few pages give hundreds of operators around the world , ranging from companies ferrying passengers between airports and major cities to companies servicing oil platforms at sea , islands too small to have airfields , etc. .
They can operate with 0 passengers , but will most likely not generate any revenue ( unless cargo is carried to generate additional revenue ) . Revenue and profit on a passenger flight ( assuming no paid cargo ) will be based upon how many tickets were sold at which price , so the number of passengers required for any given flight to break even will be variable and can not be answered in a general way .
end question
start question
What does feathering mean and how does it work technically ?
Feathering is not engine starting , and also is not used in turbine ( excluding turboprop ) aircraft . In a piston or turbo prop aircraft , in the event of an engine failure , to decrease drag so you can either glide farther or have better performance on the remaining engine ( s ) , you can set the prop pitch lever so instead of facing at a right angle to drive air backwards and produce thrust , the propeller will instead turn edge-first into the airstream , reducing drag . Not all propeller airplanes have this capability , but it 's an added safety feature . In motorgliders ( both light sport aircraft and primary ) without retracting blades , the feathering position turns the prop so that the edge faces into the airstream and also locks the propeller so it no longer turns .
Feathering is not engine starting , and also is not used in turbine ( excluding turboprop ) aircraft . In a piston or turbo prop aircraft , in the event of an engine failure , to decrease drag so you can either glide farther or have better performance on the remaining engine ( s ) , you can set the prop pitch lever so instead of facing at a right angle to drive air backwards and produce thrust , the propeller will instead turn edge-first into the airstream , reducing drag . Not all propeller airplanes have this capability , but it 's an added safety feature . In motorgliders ( both light sport aircraft and primary ) without retracting blades , the feathering position turns the prop so that the edge faces into the airstream and also locks the propeller so it no longer turns .
end question
start question
Can a missile be fired when a fighter jet is inverted ?
The combat advantage of fighters ( as opposed to heavier-payload bombers ) is their maneuverability , therefore a missile delivery restriction such as g-limit ( think Sidewinder heat-seeker in a dogfight ) or attitude would unnecessarily restrict their efficacy . As a Vietnam-era fighter and attack pilot I fired both unguided ( aim and shoot rockets ) and guided ( target lock-on and shoot ) missiles , and neither had associated attitude limits . Missiles that fall clear of the weapon station before rocket-motor ignition ( such as the TV-guided Walleye or the optically-pilot-guided Bullpup ) are obviously restricted from negative g to ensure safe separation from the airplane , i.e. , negative g release from an under-wing weapon station would all but guarantee impact with the airplane .
As of currently , the answer to this question is in principle no for commercial aircraft , at least not remotely . There are two parts to this : From a system perspective : Aircraft systems could probably be ' hacked ' - assuming you could for instance screw up the flight computer by changing the chips in the belly - but there is no way you could really pull this off without the pilots noticing the course being way off from the compass for instance , so they 'd figure out and shut it off . Many systems are not connected in a way that allows them to be cause damage to others . Systems are also pretty dedicated - if it 's supposed to fly the plane , that 's what it does , if it 's supposed to navigate , that 's what it does . Systems on aircraft generally a have limited , if any , connection to the outside world . There are a few systems that have the ability to connect to the ground , and this is generally limited to simple text messages . Most of the electronics on the 777 are from the type 's introduction in 1994 . A decent analogy I think is trying to hack an early cell phone remotely . And from a practical standpoint : Aircraft are generally very stiff when it comes to changes - they are often approved in a certain configuration , and that then sticks , so there 's little need to change stuff , and hence it 's not possible . This applies to the autopilot and flight controls - once it 's there , it stays there . As a few people have pointed out , these systems are proprietary and closed source , making it difficult to program them if you 're an outsider , but in theory it might be possible . The fact that no aircraft , even the computer-intensive Airbus , have really been hacked to any extent , the notion that the entire aircraft would be taken over and flown somewhere is impossible . As for original question <URL> : " The FAA has determined that the hacking technique described during a recent computer security conference does not pose a flight safety concern because it does not work on certified flight hardware , " he said . " The described technique can not engage or control the aircraft 's autopilot system using the FMS or prevent a pilot from overriding the autopilot , " said Dorr . " Therefore , a hacker can not obtain ' full control of an aircraft , ' as the technology consultant has claimed , " said Dorr . On a similar accord , I think I heard a story about a Bombardier Dash 8 that got a computer virus once , but I think it never got beyond the navigation system , the most processing intensive part . Unfortunately , I ca n't find a source for this .
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
If the wind shear ( sometimes called wind gradient , which in my opinion is the better term ) encountered in that part of the cyclone the aircraft is penetrating is less than what the aircraft can handle , then , yes , an aircraft can safely fly into a cyclone . What the aircraft can handle varies greatly depending on the speed at which it is being flown . Large aircraft have a recommended turbulence penetration speed , both in terms of knots and mach . In the absence of such a recommendation , V speeds that are relevant are Va , Vb , and Vo . <URL> is a good V speed terminology reference . I do not know what typical wind gradient values within a cyclone are or what their distribution within the cyclonic area is . However , I would be surprised if they were significantly greater than gradients within tropical thunderstorms , and aircraft do penetrate such . In season there 's a roughly north-south line of thunderstorms that regularly develops between Sumatra and Sri Lanka with tops greater than 50,000 feet . Lacking the fuel to go around the line , we would regularly go through it using radar to avoid the worst . However , with those old radars ( back in the 1990s in 747s ) , it was not uncommon for us to wind up in a cell .
Height is not the barrier . People have flown off Mount Everest - see <URL> as one example - though not when the jet stream is blowing over/around the mountain . The problem is at the boundary layer between jet stream and none jet stream air when the aircraft only have air speeds of 20-50mph . The mixing of air , and the sudden hit of jet stream air speed will be well in excess of the gliders max air speed . It has however been done in a hot air balloon . <URL>
In place of pitot-static system No , because it measures different physical quantity . Laser Doppler anemometer measures velocity of the stream ¹ . But pitot-static system does not . Pitot-static system measures <URL> and expresses it as airspeed at which that dynamic pressure would occur at sea level on an <URL> ² . Since lift and control effectiveness depend on dynamic pressure , that is exactly the quantity the pilot needs to see . Laser Doppler anemometer does not provide it , therefore it can not replace pitot-static system . In addition to pitot-static system Anything can be used in addition to what we have . But the question is whether there is a reason to . For flying the aircraft , true airspeed is not needed and for determining the wind speed by comparing true airspeed and ground speed the airspeed can be estimated well enough from indicated airspeed , pressure and temperature . However a laser anemometer has the advantage of being able to measure the wind speed ahead of the aircraft . This could be used for load alleviation ( the system needs to know about the gusts a bit in advance so it can move the control surfaces in advance ) and it could perhaps be used for detecting wind shear , though I am not sure how feasible such anemometer measuring wind speed hundreds of metres ahead is . ¹ A.k.a. true airspeed . ² That quantity is called <URL> . That is intended quantity , but the measurement is subject to various errors . The raw output of the pitot tube is called <URL> and the value corrected for positional errors ( due to the air-stream impacting the pitot tube at an angle ) is called <URL> .
Sadly , that information 's pretty much impossible to give a general answer for , as it changes from batch to batch : Refineries blend crude " to taste " as well as pricetag , so to speak , and the crude blend used as the refinery feedstock may change from batch to batch . Process conditions in catalytic crackers and reformers can change depending on the point in the batch you 're at , the incoming feedstock , and even the history of prior batches ( say the last thing that ran through the cat cracker degraded the catalyst slightly ... ) Jet fuels as-delivered may be a blend of multiple refinery batches and even the output of multiple refiners Pipeline batching can also lead to subtle changes in fuel composition as it is transported -- pipeline operators try to " cut off " as much of the transmix as they can , but 100 % is n't easy without wasting tons of fuel as transmix . ( Some pipeline operators will stick a " dumb pig " between high spec products , such as jet fuel , and their neighbors in the pipeline , but this is by no means universal . ) That said , you can make some determinations based off of <URL> : The fuel consists of medium-weight hydrocarbons , from C9 to C16 The only specified aromatic component is napthalene , with a maximum concentration of 3 % No additives ( anti-static , FSII , anti-oxidation , biocidal ) are specified -- these are generally variable from batch-to-batch , depending on the specific purchaser ( a large airport might get to spec these directly with the refiner , while the small GA ' dromes are at the mercy of whoever pulls up in the fuel truck )
Thrust is air mass flow multiplied by the speed difference between flight and nozzle speed of the engine . To increase thrust , subsonic engines try to maximize mass flow ( by increasing the bypass ratio ) while supersonic engines rely more on increasing the nozzle speed ( by using afterburners ) . The core engines do not differ much - after all , the intake will make sure that air reaches the engine <URL> , regardless of flight speed . The main difference is in their bypass ratio . The slower the design speed , the bigger the bypass ratio may become . At very low speed , the ungeared , shrouded fan is exchanged for a geared , free spinning propeller , in other words , the jet changes to a turboprop . The intake and nozzle , however , are very different indeed . The optimum bypass ratio changes continuously , but since the drag coefficient drops after crossing Mach 1 , airplanes are either designed for a maximum Mach number of 0.9 or less , or 1.6 and above . The corresponding bypass ratios today are up to 12 for subsonic engines , and less than 1 for supersonic engines . This produces a sharp boundary at the speed of sound , and many military engines designed for supersonic flight lost their afterburners and were fitted with a big fan to become the engines for subsonic transport aircraft . Examples are : The <URL> turbojet ( installed in the F-100 and F-102 fighters , among others ) became the JT-3D turbofan which powered the Boeing 707 or the DC-8 . The core of the <URL> ( installed in the F-15 and F-16 fighters , among others ) became the <URL> turbofan which is used in the Boeing 737 or the Airbus A320 . The differences between sub - and supersonic engines grow bigger the more you move away from their core . High-pressure compressor , combustion chamber and high pressure turbine look and work the same , but the low pressure compressor of subsonic engines swallows a lot more air and has a much bigger diameter . Supersonic engines in turn mostly have an afterburner . The biggest difference , however , are the intakes ( large pitot intake with <URL> for subsonic aircraft versus adjustable <URL> for supersonic flight ) and the nozzle ( fixed for subsonic flight versus a complex , <URL> for supersonic flight ) . This is due to the very different air speeds and the much higher exit velocities required for supersonic flight .
The main problem with VRT is the airflow through the rotor which is disturbed because it is ingesting its own downwash . <URL> The large area of air accelerated downwards keeps being sucked back in to the rotor because the helicopter sinks back into it . In this state the rotor provides very little thrust - it acts as a sort of divide-by-zero state , as the transition between normal flight and windmilling when the air streams upwards . The flow field of the Harrier is different : Thrust is produced inside the engine , which is shielded from the effects of aircraft vertical velocity : air is sucked in through the inlet next to the cockpit . The air stream velocities are higher . Air is accelerated downward in a much smaller area at much higher velocities . There is no fuselage which partially decelerates the airstream , like in a helicopter : the downward flow field is much cleaner . The defining problem of VRS is the lack of thrust from the rotor at downward velocities , this would not occur with the shrouded jet engine of the Harrier .
My short answer : Stability is reduced by shifting the center of gravity aft . Shifting it past the neutral point makes the airplane unstable , so movements away from the trimmed state are accelerated . This increases maneuverability . Flight computers are multiple redundant , if one dies the others take over . Slow unstable airplanes can be flown by a human pilot , but not fast unstable airplanes . For the long answer , let me first clarify terms : Static stability is the tendency of a system to return to it 's old state after being disturbed . Take a pendulum : If you pull it to one side , it will return to the middle . Eventually . Dynamic stability is the tendency of an oscillating system for the oscillations to die down over time . Take the same pendulum : It will swing from side to side , and friction will ensure this happens with ever smaller amplitude . Now we need to add dimensions , all three of them : Pitch , roll and yaw . An airplane can be stable in one dimension and unstable in a different one . I understand your question such that you ask about the static pitch stability ( or longitudinal stability ) of fighter aircraft . The Wright Flyer was longitudinally unstable ( see <URL> for more ) . Once aircraft designers learned that aircraft can be made to fly stable , and learned that this is of immense benefit in pilot training , static stability became a requirement for new aircraft . When war in Europe broke out , the British forces were equipped with a superb <URL> , but it was so stable that it took effort and time to convince it to change course . They were shot down in droves . From now on , low stability was a prime requirement for fighters and aerobatic aircraft . Static stability is proportional to the control forces ( more precisely : To the hinge moment of the respective control surface ) , so reducing stability gave pilots more response for the same effort . Longitudinal static stability is measured as the relative distance between neutral point ( NP ) and the center of gravity ( CG ) . See <URL> for more . Longitudinal static stability is achieved by placing the CG ahead of the NP . Shifting the CG back gives you a more responsive airplane , but also one which is more easily disturbed by gusts . This is the design technique you asked about . Pretty simple , right ? Once you shift the CG aft of the NP , stability is lost and the airplane will increase deviations from the trimmed state . This can be helpful if you want large angle changes , and quickly . An unstable aircraft only needs a small kick and will do the rest of the maneuver all by itself . This is how it helps in maneuverability . But it is even more helpful to reduce the inertias , especially around the roll axis , for a faster response . That is why all combat aircraft have their engines close to the center . Of course , negative stability is not acceptable when you need to take your hands off the stick to get a map out or to pee on a long flight . So without computer control , the limit was a CG position near , but not aft of the NP . With supersonic aircraft , things got more complicated . Now the aircraft operates in two flight regimes , one where lift acts at the quarter chord of the wing and one where it acts at mid-chord . Aircraft with low static stability become very stable in supersonic flight , and the tail surface has to create a high down-force so that the sum of all lift stays where the CG is . Creating lift always incurs a drag penalty , and in supersonic flight it has to be payed twice : One for the excess lift on the wing ( which is needed to compensate for the tail 's down-force ) and one for the down-force on the tail . Using a flight control computer offers the possibility to allow the pilot to let go of the stick without the aircraft going off course . Now the stick does not command elevator deflection , but pitch rate , and the CG can be moved back from maybe 12 % of MAC ( mean aerodynamic chord ) to -2 % . If you compare the wing areas of stable and unstable jets ( Jaguar and Mirage F-1 are prime examples ) , you will see how much is achieved just by going back with the CG by a few percent of wing chord . Both configurations have the same airfield and combat performance ! Can a human still fly such an aircraft ? In glider competitions , the more daring pilots fly with relaxed static stability and have no problem to keep the aircraft under control . Even the Wright brothers could handle their unstable airplane , and handling improved when they moved the CG further back ( If you want to know why , please post a new question . This answer is getting too long already ! ) . However , the speed of an aircraft 's pitch response is proportional to flight speed ( and inverse to the pitch moment of inertia ) , so faster aircraft are harder to control . You can compare dynamic pressure with the stiffness of a spring : A stiffer spring moves the eigenfrequency of a spring-mass system up , and the same is true for the eigenvalues of the <URL> of an aircraft . Given that the reaction time of a good pilot is a
Given the hours required for the ATP , the chance of doing that rating alone in under a year seems pretty remote . Getting the private and commercial certificates done inside of a year is entirely possible , although not cheap . The writtens for the ATP are no big deal , but the hours simply will take a lot of time , as well as the right employment opportunity , to get . The number of FO 's at smaller ( regional ) airlines who have been flying for several years but who do n't yet have their ATP attests to the time required . You can ( and generally have to ) pay for the flight time to get your Commercial , but paying for all the flight time required for an ATP is simply beyond those of whose last name is n't Gates , Bezos , Trump , or etc. .
Yes , based purely on the wing shape an airliner could fly upside down and maintain a straight inverted flight . The lift of the wing is a function of the vertical angle of the airflow , the angle of attack . <URL> <URL> The picture shows an airfoil pointed upwards , but the same forces apply when the wing nose point downwards . Then turn the picture upside down , and you have lift pointing upwards again . The situation is valid for an asymmetric airfoil as well , the only difference being that it provides lift at AoA zero . Zero lift is provided at a slight negative angle of attack , so the aircraft nose will be further up when inverted , still below the stall angle though .
First off , very rarely will you shoot at an unidentified aircraft . Most engagements require a visual ID , or a hostile action , prior to engagement . However , you will also program your aircraft with specific ROE logic that will indicate that certain aircraft are friendly , as identified by IFF transponders , Link 16 , etc. . You can still lock up friendly aircraft , and we frequently do to facilitate rendezvous with friendly aircraft and to clear ourselves from traffic , but if your master switch goes to ARM and you have a friendly locked up , there 's a good chance you wo n't be flying again for awhile , if ever . When we lock up an aircraft , 99 % of the time , it does not indicate an intention to shoot . By using our radar and " locking up " a target we get target aircraft altitude , speed , range , target aspect , heading , $ Vc $ , etc , all useful things that come in handy for routine events .
In the US you need to file a flight plan for the following flights : IFR flights Defense VFR Flights , which are required to fly in the ADIZ that is off the coast of the US ( an IFR flight plan may also be used ) . Some TFR 's only allow air traffic to fly within their boundaries if they are on an IFR or VFR flight plan . A DC FRZ flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC FRZ . A DC SFRA flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC SFRA . When entering or leaving the U.S. , an ICAO international flight plan ( IFR or VFR ) . Other than that , no flight plans are required , but are strongly recommended so that search and rescue gets called if you do n't show up at your destination on time !
The short answer : It depends . Either 10 , 20 or 30 hours of simulator/FTD/ATD time may be used , but all of it must be with an approved instructor . None of it may be solo . None of the requirements you posted are related to simulator time . 50 hours of Pilot in Command cross country This can be done solo , as you are a rated pilot and thus PIC . This need not be solo XC and can be done with a passenger or CFI . 40 hours of simulated or actual instrument time In this quote , simulated instrument time refers to time spent in the airplane during flight in visual meteorological conditions ( VMC ) that you are wearing a view-limiting device to simulate IMC . While wearing a view-limiting device you must be accompanied by another pilot who acts as your safety pilot . Thus , none of this time may be accomplished solo . You will always need another pilot either in simulated or actual instrument conditions . 15 hours of flight instruction towards Instrument Rating This time may overlap with the above ( actually , must overlap ) , the regulation reads ( <URL> ( d ) ( 2 ) ) : ( 2 ) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed in paragraph ( c ) of this section , of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating ... Now back to your question , what about simulator time ? For this we look further down to <URL> ( h ) and ( i ) ( h ) Use of flight simulators or flight training devices . If the instrument time was provided by an authorized instructor in a flight simulator or flight training device -- ( 1 ) A maximum of 30 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter ; or ( 2 ) A maximum of 20 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was not completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter . and ( i ) Use of an aviation training device . A maximum of 10 hours of instrument time received in an aviation training device may be credited for the instrument time requirements of this section if -- ( 1 ) The device is approved and authorized by the FAA ; ( 2 ) An authorized instructor provides the instrument time in the device ; ( 3 ) No more than 10 hours of instrument time in a flight simulator or flight training device was credited for the instrument time requirements of this section ; ( 4 ) A view-limiting device was worn by the applicant when logging instrument time in the device ; and ( 5 ) The FAA approved the instrument training and instrument tasks performed in the device . The use of simulators and flight training devices is covered by ( h ) above , and the limit of 20 or 30 hours depends on how the training is conducted . In either case , note that time must be " provided by an authorized instructor " . Section ( i ) deals with lesser training devices that are limited to 10 hours but is also required to be conducted by an authorized instructor . Reprising the short answer , any time spent in a simulator , flight training device or aviation training device where you are solo or without an authorized instructor does not count toward anything . Sim time is only valid when conducted by an authorized instructor .
There is a good writeup <URL> that explains the engine issues as well as the rest of the incident you mentioned . Core lock happens when parts inside the engine cool off at different rates , causing interference between them . In the case of the CF34 engines on these Bombardier jets : GE isolated the problem to contact between components of the high-pressure-turbine interstage seal - a static , pressurized honeycomb component - and the rotating seal teeth on the outer torque coupling . Working on getting a good illustration of what they are talking about . This does not mean that the engine is " not functional . " There is just much more resistance on the rotating components , but once the temperatures have time to equalize , the components will break free . According to the NTSB , FDR data indicate that the engine cores were beginning to break free just before the impact . During core lock , the resistance makes starting the engine more difficult . A windmill start does not provide very much turning force on the engine components , so the resistance from core lock makes that method of starting difficult . GE has done engine testing , and when the windmill restart fails , they are able to use bleed air from the other engine to restart the engine , which provides more turning force .
Not in the US . The C162 's <URL> says : The Model 162 Skycatcher is not equipped or certified for IFR flight That means that under <URL> it may not be operated IFR . But , <URL> allows an exception for aircraft not certified for IFR to be operated under IFR in VMC only : A. IFR Training in Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) . Instrument flight training may be conducted during VMC in any aircraft that meets the equipment requirements of part 91 , § § 91.109 , 91.205 , and , for an airplane operated in controlled airspace under the IFR system , § § 91.411 and 91.413 . An aircraft may be operated on an IFR flight plan under IFR in VMC , provided the PIC is properly certificated to operate the aircraft under IFR . However , if the aircraft is not approved for IFR operations under its type certificate , or if the appropriate instruments and equipment are not installed or are not operative , operations in Instrument Meteorological Conditions ( IMC ) are prohibited . The PIC of such an aircraft must cancel the IFR flight plan in use and avoid flight into IMC . An autopilot is n't required for IFR flight in the US ( see <URL> ) and <URL> you linked . I did n't check the full equipment list to see which required instruments are missing from the C162 , but even with full IFR equipment if it is n't certified for IFR then it ca n't be operated in IMC per the regulations above .
Towing is quite feasible , and even landing while in tow is possible - I 've done it myself in gliders . The hard part is catching up with the stricken plane . To stay with Keegan 's Boeing 777 : It most likely will travel at Mach 0.8 and somewhere between 30.000 and 39.000 ft when disaster strikes . Let 's further assume that power fails instantly , so the aircraft , traveling at 240 m/s , will develop a sink rate of 15 m/s just to continue flying . When it sinks , the increasing density allows it to slow down , so at sea level it will fly at 130 m/s , sinking with 8.125 m/s . For simplicity , assume a linearly decreasing sink rate , and the remaining time aloft will be less than 1000 sec or around a quarter of an hour . Now the towplane has 15 min to scramble the crew , run up the engines , get take-off clearance and to actually fly an intercept to the stricken airliner . How realistic is that ? How many airports are needed to have 777-sized towplanes ready , and how many otherwise unproductive 777s would this scheme need ? A car can stop and wait a couple of hours for the tow to reach it . An aircraft can not .
Retrofitting is ( as the comments to your post have already stated ) rather difficult and unusual . In addition , the quality of service from such an aircraft you could expect to get would most probably not be great . Analogy : Try changing your minibus for 9 people into minivan for freight and industrial work . It is also worth mentioning that the difference in operation is substantial between bombers and commercial jets . You would be better off using something that is not that complicated , like a Cessna Caravan for instance . I think that energy , time and money would be better spent on building more dedicated aircraft . Changing the commercial ones is also not trivial and will require engineered changes . It is however fully possible to design a military derivative of a commercial jet . The <URL> is an example of this , being based off the Boeing 737 with the necessary modifications . The armament is also fairly extensive : 5 internal and 6 external stations for AGM-84H / K SLAM-ER , AGM-84 Harpoon , Mark 54 torpedo , missiles , mines , torpedoes , bombs , and a High Altitude Anti-Submarine Warfare Weapon system [
Absolutely . The jet engines used in airliners are quite powerful and can easily <URL> . Other ( large ) airliners , not so much . It depends on the aircraft 's size , weight and distance from the engine actually . There are records of a <URL> ; as the thrust of an A380 engine is quite higher than that of the Lancer , the damage would be worse . The minimum safe distance between the aircraft varies depending on the aircraft and engine type . For example , according to the Australian <URL> : An aircraft engine shall not be started or operated : ... ( b ) within 8 metres ( 25 ft ) of other aircraft ; ... turbine engines , in addition , shall not be operated within the appropriate distance specified below of any other aircraft , fuelling equipment or exposed public areas which lie to the rear of and within a 15 degree arc either side of the exhaust outlet axis of that engine : <URL> Minimum distance between aircraft for operation of engines ; image from <URL>
end question
start question
Do pilots ever intentionally takeoff or land downwind ?
It 's perfectly legal , but check the Chart Supplement ( or AFD , or instrument approaches ) to see if there are special exceptions for that airport . If it is a non-towered airport and you are n't assigned a runway , you should of course try to use the prevailing runway that is already in use by other traffic in the pattern when it makes sense . Some airports have obstructions in one direction of their runways that make it necessary ( or safer ) to always land or depart in a certain direction . Some runways have a steep incline in one direction , making it preferable to land upslope and depart downslope . ( For example <URL> ) It 's also common for larger airports to have preferred directions for arrival or departures in order to keep the flight volume high , even when the wind prefers other runways . However , that usually relates to operating with intentional crosswinds at an airport that has parallel runways in a primary direction ( allowing them to conduct more simultaneous flight operations ) , but not in the intersecting direction .
Photos of this would be very hard to come by , but yes , in an extremely cold environment , say close to the arctic and antarctic regions of the globe where daylight temperatures can be down around -40 ° F , it is entirely possible for this to happen by the laws of thermodynamics . The rarity is further exacerbated by the fact that aircraft are difficult to start up at those temperatures , generally grounding operations where surface temperatures reach low enough to form contrails .
Short answer : For clarification : Equivalence between biplane and monoplane means than both have the same wing area and the same engine . Then the main differences in maneuvering are : The biplane has better roll acceleration than an equivalent monoplane . The biplane has a higher roll rate than an equivalent monoplane at the same speeds . All biplane flying takes place at lower speeds , resulting in a lower space requirement for all maneuvers . This also means that inertial effects are less pronounced : When pulling up , there is less kinetic energy available for climbing , so ( for example ) hammerhead turns will end with less altitude gain . Differences in handling : The biplane has lower aileron forces for the same roll rate at the same speed lighter control forces overall due to lower flight speed Differences in performance : shorter take-off and landing distances a lower stall speed a much lower maximum speed a lower optimum cruise speed and range a lower power requirement due to the lower flying speeds , or if both use the same engine , a better power-to-weight ratio when compared to an equivalent monoplane . These differences are most pronounced if the airplane carries just the pilot and not much payload . Flying techniques are the same as for monoplanes . Indirectly , differences are likely due to differences in design . Example : Few biplanes profit from having a retractable landing gear while gear retraction makes sense for monoplanes with higher power loading ( installed power relative to wing area ) . Explanation Biplanes have two major differences : Smaller wing span at the same wing area , and Wire bracing results in very lightweight biplane wings . The smaller span reduces roll damping and roll inertia , so a biplane will accelerate into a roll more quickly than an equivalent monoplane and will reach a higher roll rate . This is the main difference in maneuvering . The smaller wing span results in more induced drag if both have the same mass and the same speed . With wire bracing , this condition is unrealistic , and an equivalent biplane will be much lighter . If the structure is a substantial part of the aircraft 's mass ( this is typical for aerobatic airplanes ) , the result can easily be less induced drag , despite the lower span , and also lower wing loading . This in turn means that both fly at different speeds : The biplane will be able to fly much slower , but the aerodynamic drag of the bracing will restrict it to low speeds . This also means inertial effects are less pronounced : The lower mass and lower speed of the biplane combine for a marked difference to the equivalent monoplane . For aerobatic displays this is ideal : All action takes place close to the audience , and the biplane will need a much smaller area for all maneuvers than an equivalent , but heavier monoplane . The downside are low maximum speed and low range . Another difference in performance are much shorter take-off and landing distances due to the lower wing loading , which results in a lower stall speed . The optimum endurance and optimum range speeds are lower than those of an equivalent monoplane as well , so all biplane flying happens at lower speeds , which is beneficial for training aircraft . Since control forces are proportional to dynamic pressure , a biplane will have lower control forces than an equivalent monoplane . Here equivalence also means that the relative chord of all control surfaces is the same . In reality , a good designer will select a higher relative chord for the biplane 's control surfaces to ensure that control forces are above their required minimum . The heavy , unreliable engines of the early years made biplanes the ideal way of taking to the air . Once engines became more powerful and allowed higher payloads , the monoplane became better suited to carrying passengers and freight at higher speeds and over longer distances .
The " packs " ( or A/C on the aircraft ) are powered by engine bleed air . When bleed air is extracted from the engines , less thrust can be produced . This may be a problem if the airplane is taking off at a high elevation airport or the departure path requires a certain climb gradient to clear obstacles . This action does create some discomfort in the cabin so it 's usually not preferred unless required for safety . Some newer airplanes are manufactured with an " APU to pack " configuration - i.e. the pilots leave the APU running during takeoff , which provides bleed air to power the packs . The workload on the engines are now reduced .
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
What you are hearing is " V-One " , written as V1 . It actually is said when they can no longer safely abort the takeoff with the remaining runway , but they still are not quite ready to takeoff . As they get a little faster , there should then be a second callout of " Rotate " when they have achieved the required takeoff speed , and that is when they actually takeoff . To answer the " why " part , it is said by the pilot who is n't actually flying the airplane since he has more time to monitor the speed and can say it at exactly the right time . It alerts the other pilot that it is no longer safe to abort the takeoff and that pretty much no matter what happens now , they should continue and come back to land if needed . Edit : In my answer above , I simplified somewhat by only mentioning the available runway . There are other factors that can come into play even with a runway that is longer than needed . One example would be the speed after which the brakes can no longer stop the airplane because they would over-heat and become ineffective . This is known as the brake energy limit , and it is not safe to abort above this speed , even if you have " plenty " of runway . V1 must be calculated or looked up prior to every takeoff , along with the other performance numbers . They vary based on the weight of the aircraft , the configuration of the aircraft , the altitude of the runway , and the weather ( outside temperature , wind , etc. ) . Sometimes this is done via a computer and sometimes manually via lookup tables or even graphs . For an example of the graphs , and more information about how temperature and altitude affect takeoff performance , see my previous answer here : <URL> There are also times when a pilot may increase or decrease V1 intentionally , even when it is not required . For instance , if there is wet ice on the runway it may not be safe to abort even at a very low speed , so you would be forced to continue no matter what ( note that I 'm NOT saying that this is a good idea ) . Using a lower power setting to extend engine life is another example , and you can read about it in my question here : <URL> For way more information than you probably care about takeoff performance , see my other answer here : <URL> In closing , aircraft performance planning is a rather complicated subject and it is only one of many subjects that we must master in order to safely fly an airplane . This only just scratches the surface of it , and there is a lot more that must be considered ( such as " hey , will we be able to out-climb that tree off the end of the runway ? " ) .
From Finnair 's Facebook page , it looks like Flight Attendancts wear gloves for safety reasons during takeoff/landing and galley preparation . Also it seems they do remove them when greeting passengers . <URL> <URL>
Try to search " Before Takeoff Checklist " . Manufacturer will provide standard checklist but airlines can modify it .
Just to roll around on " unimproved " airfields ( grass/dirt/gravel strips ) , the biggest thing planes need is simply a decent set of tires : <URL> This MiG-29UN trainer shows off the fairly beefy main tires put on these planes specifically to allow them to more easily roll over minor imperfections in the runway/taxiway surface , including dirt/gravel/grass strips ( though here it 's landing on a traditional asphalt/concrete surface ) . Compare these to the relatively small gear wheels and low-aspect rubber on the similarly-sized F-16 : <URL> Now , your question oversimplifies things , because " foreign object debris " or FOD is in fact a primary danger of unpaved airstrips for jets , and this danger has to be accounted for in the design . Here 's the main reason the MiG-29 can take off from dirt : <URL> <URL> MiG-29s and similarly-minded Su-27s , and their variants , have special doors to close off the lower intakes normally used in flight , instead drawing in air through the gill-like ports over the top of the wing strakes . This prevents the engine from ingesting dust , rocks , birds , rodents , etc on takeoff and landing . This engine protection system , while effective , adds mechanical complexity and weight which U.S. designers and military brass have generally thought unnecessary given that requirements rarely include the ability to operate from unimproved strips . Most U.S. fighters in the jet age , therefore , have had to operate from airbases with some form of paved runway surface ( and the U.S. military actually has higher standards for runway surface quality than most international airports ) . The U.S. arsenal does , however , have several aircraft that are specifically designed to operate from rudimentary airstrips at forward bases . These designs avoid FOD damage primarily by keeping the engines up as high as the design will allow . For instance , the A-10 's two engines are on pods angled up on the fuselage between the wings and tail for a variety of reasons including FOD avoidance : <URL> Most of the other designs in the Western arsenal that can do this are high-wing designs with wing-mounted engines , which keep them out of the dust produced by takeoff and landing in a similar fashion . Here are a C-130 and C-17 landing at an Afghanistan forward base : <URL> <URL> The Harrier is a notable exception to this general strategy by Western designers of just keeping the engines out of any debris cloud . While it 's probably not done routinely , a Harrier can set down just about anywhere , and as this picture shows , it ingests no small amount of dust in the process : <URL>
Yes they do . You can <URL> . That 's a failed launch from an aircraft carrier , the crew jettisoned the bombs before they ejected . More information here : <URL> , emphasis on use in aircraft carrier launches , hardpoints also carry external fuel tanks . ... if forced to land in an emergency ? If not , why ? For extreme military emergencies , which usually never end well , pilots have the option to just bail out ( eject ) and parachute to safety . For big bombers , like the B-52 , the crew can also eject . But ca n't dump fuel . <URL> But the question is about weapons , so again yes , mainly for carrier launches , else , a crew ejection is more likely . <URL> for fuel dumping by USAF planes ( USAF report , PDF ) , if interested .
Crew members each have their own approach to this but in general on the long haul routes , as a pilot you have at least 24h layover , so you can catchup on some sleep , walk outside for a bit ( depending on the local time ) and then sleep some more so you 're fit for the next flight back home . At home you have a couple of days off to recover from the trip . On the very long flights 13h + the pilots are with at least 4 so you can do a quick nap on board as well . As a passenger I cope with the jetlag by looking at the arrival time , do I arrive in the morning I will try to sleep on the plane , will I arrive in the afternoon the I will try to stay awake and go to bed early . By doing so I wake up easily next morning and do not feel jetlagged .
The night currency requirements are in <URL> , which does provide exceptions for pilots flying for an air carrier : Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers [ at night ] 61.57 ( e ) ( 2 ) has this exception for part 121 : ( 2 ) This section does not apply to a pilot in command who is employed by a part 119 certificate holder authorized to conduct operations under part 121 when the pilot is engaged in a flight operation under part 91 or 121 for that certificate holder if the pilot in command complies with § § 121.436 and 121.439 of this chapter . <URL> has general PIC requirements for part 121 , and <URL> has recency requirements , which are 3 takeoffs and landings in the last 90 days in the same aircraft type , or an equivalent simulator . So part 121 pilots need three takeoffs and landings in type in the last 90 days , with no specific requirement for them to be at night . That 's all based on just reading the regulations , someone who 's actually been there and done that could probably add some more information .
When instructed to report something . ATC : Cimber 626 turn left heading 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , report established Pilot : Heading left 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , WILCO , Cimber 626 ATC : OYABC airborne time 33 , report passing Dalhem Pilot ; ( Roger ) , WILCO , OYABC ATC : Lufthansa 135 , traffic is a Boeing 737 on 5 miles final for runway 09 , report in sight Pilot : WILCO , Lufthansa 135
Unlike passengers in economy who are trying to sleep in sitting position in seat that can be only partially reclined , the pilots sleep lying in a bed . Long range aircraft have a crew rest area . They are often above or below the main cabin and therefore low , now allowing standing up , but they always have beds or fully convertible chairs . The flight crew rest area is most commonly for 3 and separate cabin crew rest area for whatever is the usual number of flight attendants in given plane .
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
As has been stated , ATC will assign you an altitude , taking into account your requested altitude , traffic conditions , and of course the FAR . <URL> will apply from a design standpoint . The aircraft designer will use something like that to calculate typical values , which will be included in the aircraft 's operating handbook . The table below is listed by pressure altitude and gross weight . At each combination there will be performance values such as : Average N1 ( for a turbine ) Max TAT for thrust rating IAS Knots Mach number ISA fuel flow LB/HR/ENG ISA TAS Knots The flight distance will determine the approximate gross weight , which corresponds to an altitude and cruise speed that provide the best efficiency . Here is an example from a virtual 737 handbook , with the values I listed . The optimum performance is in blue . Higher gross weights have been removed for clarity . Airlines may have their own performance tables , choosing a custom balance of efficiency and speed . Dispatchers for the airline will take the flight information and decide on a cruising altitude for filing the flight plan , which the pilot will then receive . As you can see , as the aircraft burns fuel and gets lighter , it will be more efficient at higher altitudes . This is the step climb that Peter mentioned , where the aircraft will climb to higher altitudes as the flight progresses when they are cleared by ATC . Modern planning systems can take into account weather factors such as winds aloft and turbulence to pick the most efficient route .
Balanced field length calculations by definition are the greater of three factors . As Lnafziger noted in his answer to the linked questions above these three factors are : 115 % All engine takeoff distance Accelerate-stop distance Accelerate-go distance The manufacturer will choose a $ V _ { 1 } $ speed that will all the accelerate-stop and accelerate-go distances to be as close as possible . This reduced the takeoff distance to the lowest possible since the takeoff distance is the greater of those three factors . This means that our takeoff distance must be less than certain declared distances . See the linked questions for a discussion on declared distances . The TORA value may or may not equal the runway length but it will never be greater than that length . The TODA is the TORA plus a clearway . The ASDA is the TORA plus a stopway ( it can be lower than the TORA value ) . Using common sense , our accelerate-go distance can not be greater than the TODA value and our accelerate-stop distance can not be greater than the ASDA value . If we take this one step further , since we have one number for takeoff and we do n't know if that number is limited by the accelerate-stop or accelerate-go performance we can not use the TODA value for the accelerate-go distance . We must use the TORA value . Hence , for multi-engine airplanes with balanced field length calculations we are limited to the lower of the TORA or ASDA values for our takeoff distance . As Aeroalias and Lnafziger pointed out , for unbalanced field length calculations we can indeed use the TODA value for the accelerate-go distance and the ASDA value for the accelerate-stop distance . References : The <URL> has some great videos on the subject . Here is the video on <URL> . <URL> also has information on the subject
Yes , it can happen , but it 's pretty uncommon . Airliners arrive at the destination airport having been sequenced by ARTCC ( " Center " ) and Approach so that they are showing up in an orderly sequence , spaced out so that there is adequate room between them . They may be set up for an ILS , or they may see the field and accept a visual approach , but either way the flow is generally quite predictable and orderly . VFR traffic , by its nature , is less controlled and ordered , so it 's more likely in that sort of an operation that you 'd have two aircraft in positions to arrive at the runway at about the same time , so a solution like a 360 on downwind or on final becomes necessary . With a flow of airliners ( and other IFR traffic ) spaced out at 3-5 miles apart , that solution would create as much trouble as it would solve , because now the conflict is with the aircraft behind the one that circled , rather than with the one in front of it . What does happen more frequently , is the 360 happens much farther out from the airport , and that 's called " going into holding " due to traffic saturation . Maybe the airport is over-loaded with arrivals , or it had to suspend operations while the active runway was changed from 18 to 36 ( or whatever they are at a particular field ) , or there is weather affecting the approaches which slows down the rate at which it can accept arrivals . The Approach and Center controllers will work to keep the flow of traffic coming into the airport neat &amp; orderly , which means delaying aircraft before they get to Tower 's airspace ( i.e. the " traffic pattern " ) . Ideally , they will do this with speed adjustments to get the desired interval , but sometimes the delay needed is more than speed adjustments alone can accomplish . Then they 'll put the arrivals into holding for however long it takes until they can start sending them in again . That 's the more common airline version of a " 360 on final " ... doing 360 's with 10 mile legs on a really , really extended final -- 100 + miles out ! In the case of a go-around that turns downwind , rather than a 360 on final , the typical solution would be to extend turning final out until there is adequate space . Staying on downwind past a 5 or 10 mile base &amp; final is highly undesirable for a VFR pattern , but for airliners where everybody has an ILS and does n't really have to maintain sight of the runway , it 's no big deal . For big airports , extending the traffic pattern out to longer finals is highly preferred over having jets circling on final .
I can see at least three questions here and only one of them is fully aviation-related . First , can an airliner legally divert to Pyongyang in an emergency , under the laws of its own country ? For US airlines , the answer is yes . <URL> bans flights over North Korea , but does allow an exception in an emergency : 2 . Flight Prohibition . Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this SFAR , no person described in paragraph 1 may conduct flight operations through the Pyongyang FIR west of 132 degrees east longitude . [ ... ] 4 . Emergency situations . In an emergency that requires immediate decision and action for the safety of the flight , the pilot in command on an aircraft may deviate from this SFAR to the extent required by that emergency . Second , will North Korea allow the airliner to land ? This is a political question , not an aviation one . Either they say yes or they say no . If they say no to an airliner in distress , how will they enforce that ? Are they willing to shoot it down rather than let it land ? Would that decision depend on the country of the airliner ? Can they even make that decision within minutes , or is it already made and they simply initiate a defined procedure ? The pilot is probably just going to try to land anyway ; assuming the alternative is a crash , he would have little to lose . Finally , what will the ' reception committee ' on the ground look like ? No idea , this is a political/military question . But practically speaking , this situation should never arise anyway ( ignoring movie plot stuff like hacked navigation systems ) . If your country is n't friendly or at least neutral to North Korea , your airlines simply wo n't plan flights where the only emergency landing possible is in Pyongyang , and for US carriers specifically it would be illegal anyway .
I 'm not exactly sure whether this counts , but I think the <URL> using a <URL> comes pretty close . Though Major Buang-Ly was not a civilian , he has never seen a carrier before and the landing was n't exactly illegal . It was permitted by <URL> during <URL> , who even scuttled helicopters on the deck to ensure safe landing . The image below shows the aircraft as it comes to a stop . <URL> Image from <URL>
end question
start question
What is the peak of coffin corner called ?
Yes . The peak is the actual coffin corner . That 's why it is called a corner . In the coffin corner the aircraft can not climb any higher , which is a definition for the <URL> . Going any faster will reduce L/D and cause the aircraft to sink ; that Mach effects are involved is of minor importance . Going slower will also decrease L/D because the aircraft is approaching stall . What is special about the coffin corner is not the corner itself , but what happens when the aircraft gets too fast : Now stronger shocks will increase drag and decrease the maximum lift coefficient such that the aircraft is locked into a shallow dive from which it is initially not able to recover . Going too fast while flying at the " regular " absolute ceiling merely means that you will lose some altitude but not lose control .
Independent of airspeed , angle of bank gives you the " G " force in a level coordinated turn . A 60 degree bank = 2 G 's , at any speed . At low speed , a given G force will give you a greater heading change than it would at a high speed . Driving your car at 10 mph you can complete a U-turn , 180 degrees of heading change , in a couple seconds without pinning passengers against the door , but at highway speeds , even a hard turn that does impose big side-loads will take much longer to give you that much heading change . Related to all this is turn radius : at low speed , your turn radius for any given loading ( bank angle ) is smaller than it would be at a higher speed with that same loading/bank angle . Thus , even though you 're going slower , you have less distance ( circumference of the circle ) to cover , and so you are able to complete the circle ( or one 360th of it ) more quickly . ( ( For the pedantic ones , everything here assumes level , coordinated turns . Change those assumptions enough , things can be different , but those are n't particularly instructive cases until the base case is understood . ) )
Generally when GA pilots talk about climb performance we speak of two different airspeed values : Best Rate of Climb speed ( Vy ) gets you the most altitude per unit time ( feet per minute ) . When you want to get to cruise altitude quickly for maximum efficiency you 'll aim for the best rate of climb so you spend the least time at lower , less efficient altitudes . Best Angle of Climb speed ( Vx ) gets you the greatest altitude per unit of ground distance ( feet per mile ) . When you 've got a FAA-Standard 50-foot-tree at the departure end of the runway you 'll aim for the best angle of climb to ensure you do n't wind up in the tree . Those speeds are useful to us as pilots , but the exact rate of climb ( feet-per-minute ) for those speeds will vary : A fully loaded plane will climb more slowly than one that 's just got the pilot and a few gallons of fuel on board , and that 's where the " maximum rate of climb " enters into the discussion : Maximum rate of climb is the number of feet per minute you can get climbing at the " best rate of climb " airspeed . If someone is being sloppy in their usage " Maximum Rate of Climb " could mean " Best Rate of Climb " ( pitch for Vy and you get what you get ) , but if you 're being precise in your usage and really talking about the rate of climb it would mean <URL> in feet per minute based on the current conditions and aircraft weight . Maximum rate of climb under a given set of conditions is useful information to know if you need to clear terrain at some point on your flight path and want to be sure you can climb fast enough to do so : If you 're starting from sea level and need to clear a 5000 foot mountain that 's 5 minutes away but your plane ca n't manage more than 500 feet per minute at best-rate-of-climb speed under the current conditions you 'll need to reconsider your flight plan to either avoid the mountain or climb in a circle somewhere until you can clear it .
Tip jets spin the rotor by blowing out compressed air . It 's the same principle as a jet engine or a jet-ski impeller , just that the exhaust is pushed out through the rotors . Some designs even had jet engines on the rotor tips ! The primary advantage of the design are that there is no torque created , so no need for anti-torque rotors or thrusters , the tip jets also increase the rotor 's moment arm and mass , making autorotation safer in some cases , although the drag from the tip jets often slowed the rotors down in many cases . Some say it is easier to learn to fly and safer to fly a tip jet design as there 's no torque . There are very few systems which use tip rotors , the main disadvantages would seem to be a lack of efficiency and drag from the tip jets . The rotor design is complex as high-pressure air must be carried through them , causing many design and materials challenges . Also , lack of a tail rotor means there 's no way to pivot in hover unless unless you put some sort of tail thruster on .
Assuming this is the standard inclined plane task from physics textbook , as <URL> for instance , the acceleration is $ a = g \ cdot \ sin ( \ theta ) $ where $ a $ is acceleration , $ g $ is the free fall acceleration ( 9.8 m/s ^ 2 ) and $ \ theta $ is the pitch angle down ( 0 assuming horizontal ) . This equation applies does not take the air resistance into consideration so would only apply to relatively slow speeds . Interestingly , under these conditions the acceleration does not depend on the mass of the plane . The equation should also apply for the positive pitch angles , but the acceleration would be negative in this case ( slowing down ) .
First off , the thud and deceleration may be more related to the conditions as well as the runway length than pilot skill , but lets discuss some of your questions . 1 ) Please elaborate on the stress tolerances built into various parts of the landing gear of common commercial aircraft , such as the Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 ? This is a complex question to answer simply as airplane gear sees lost of loads and some compromises are made for simplicity of operation . For one the rubber used on the tires is quite thick since some of it does wear away on every landing since the gear is not spinning when the plane touches down ( you can <URL> ) The tradeoff here is weight ( you need to haul the tires around with you ) but they can be used for many cycles . The vertical load is generally handled by an <URL> these allow for a margin of error but they ( or the gear system ) can be bottomed out and a <URL> . The last serious load that gear sees is usually side loads when a crosswind landing is made . These are tough to mitigate and its generally the job of the pilot to reduce these loads they will manifest them selves as tire wear and mechanical wear . Perhaps the coolest solution to this was the B-52 's full rotating gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) One of the more interesting non Oleo designs for GA gear is the rubber disks used on Mooneys . These are said to require less maintenance and are easier to replace but are far less forgiving than Oleo struts . <URL> ( <URL> ) Some of the vertical force is absorbed by the tire its self when the plane touches down the tire does ballon out a bit . As such it is of vital importance that the tire pressure is within a small margin since low pressure can cause excessive ballooning which would lead to side wear depending on gear design . 2 ) What kind of stress testing is done on crucial parts of the landing gear , such as tyres , wheels , axles and hydraulic parts ? These parts are generally made by different manufactures and are designed to comply with the aircrafts specs as set fourth by the builder ( Boeing etc ) . Like everything else on a plane these parts have a cycle life ( TO/LD ) and are replaced when necessary . Since they are high impact I would assume the life is on the shorter side generally speaking . Here is <URL> on how to care and maintain tires for aircrafts . Heres some good info on <URL> as well . 3 ) What are the backups and fail-safe measures designed into such landing gear ? This depends on the plane , bigger planes generally need to spread the load out over more axles/tires which gives them greater redundancy a plane like a 747 has 2 sets of twin axle main gear on each side of the plane so you could lose an axle and still be ok ( relatively speaking ) <URL> ( <URL> ) compare this with a 737 and you will see that the main gear is less redundant as its a single axle only system . In this case losing one of two tires would be less catastrophic than losing all the gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) Compare this all to a smaller GA plane where you generally have a single wheel situation <URL> ( <URL> ) The one thing all these planes have in common is that the nose wheel is the most delicate part of the landing gear . Hard landings on the nose wheel can collapse the gear or cause porpoising both of which are bad . This is what happens if the gear does not <URL> in other words that nose gear saw complete side loads . Planes have be successfully landed with collapsed nose gear or nose gear that wont come down . Its a sight but generally speaking its not the worst thing to happen . Sensors : The only sensor I know of on the gear ( and this is plane dependent ) is the <URL> which is a simple on off for being on the ground or not . The FDR will record 3-axis acceleration but that will be of the airframe which is behind the Oleo struts so the gear its self may see higher loads .
The trim tab is like a control surface for the control surface . By changing camber at the rear end of the control surface , it creates a local force which changes the balance of forces such that the force-free deflection angle ( sometimes called auswehwinkel after the German word for this angle ) is shifted in a direction opposite to the deflection of the tab . You could do the same with springs along the control rods , or a mass somewhere which pulls the control surface to the same force-free angle . But when speed changes , so do the aerodynamic forces , and your force-free angle will change . The forces caused by the tab change with airspeed , so the force-free angle set by a tab is unaffected by speed . Do n't confuse a trim tab with a Flettner tab : The trim tab stays at the same angle with varying control deflection , while the Flettner tab will move in opposite direction to reduce the stick forces caused by the deflection of the control surface . By setting the zero-deflection position of a Flettner tab , it can in parallel work like a trim tab and shift the zero-force deflection angle to the desired point . Small aircraft like the Diamond Katana even have an anti-Flettner , where the tab is moving in the same direction as the control surface in order to increase stick forces . This is needed to fulfill certification requirements . In practice , a combination of both springs and tabs is used to set the desired control forces and their gradient over speed .
Short answer : Increasing fuel prices would have driven down the most economical speed , but advances in aerodynamics have compensated for that and the maximum cruise Mach number is still at Mach 0.85 . But there is a much simpler reason why this Mach 0.85 number seems so immutable . Please note that we are talking about the maximum cruise Mach number ; all airliners will fly more economical at slightly lower Mach numbers between 0.78 and 0.82 . Now we need to define efficiency . For airliners this is haul capacity per time , and can be expressed by the product of payload , range and speed . When none of the three constituents can be changed without making the product more costly to achieve , you have reached the point of best efficiency . Engine Technology The biggest change in the last 50 years was in engine technology . Bypass ratios have increased to values close to 10 , the turbine inlet temperature is now <URL> , and electronic control has improved especially the off-design performance of engines . This has made it less attractive to increase flight speed , so the optimum cruise Mach would be lower if no other effects had influenced it . Another effect is the lower fuel consumption . Early designs had to use a high wing chord to pack enough fuel volume for transoceanic flights . The much lower consumption of modern engines has given them ranges which are <URL> directly . This made it possible to reduce wing area , thickness and mass , and to save some friction drag , helping fuel economy again . The lower thickness helps to make higher cruise Mach numbers possible . Aerodynamics Aerodynamics is the second factor . With the A310 supercritical airfoils were introduced , and they shifted the operating Mach number up because now a limited region of supersonic flow on the wing could be tolerated without a significant rise in drag . However , the benefit from that was used to reduce wing sweep , increase airfoil thickness and to attach bigger fuselages to those wings . In the end , the newer airplanes had the same cruise Mach numbers as their predecessors . Something made Mach 0.85 too attractive to abandon . A second effect of supercritical airfoils is their blunter nose , which helps to reach a higher maximum lift coefficient . This also contributed to reducing wing chord , because now the wing area could be made smaller for the same landing speed . The Real Reason Every new airliner needs to compete with the older models . On fuel economy this is no problem , but <URL> . A higher cruise Mach number allows shorter times for connections . Now you have to know that the <URL> reservation <URL> would list connections sorted by flight time , shortest first . When a travel agent wanted to book a flight , he or she would rarely look beyond the first screen and pick one of the first flights listed . If a new type made the flight slip down in the listings , it was a non-seller . This is even true in the times of online bookings : The airlines do n't make much profit from the bargain hunters in Economy , their target are the business people flying in Business or First Class . And those still order mostly through travel agencies , so the rules have not changed . This is why that Mach 0.85 speed seems to be so firmly set ; flying any faster would drive up fuel consumption disproportionally , and even the newest jets will mostly be flown around Mach 0.82 to Mach 0.84 . Making this speed possible is still a struggle for the design engineers , especially when you consider that larger aircraft would need thicker wings for structural efficiency , but need to be fitted with wings thinner than optimal to let marketing claim a cruise speed of Mach 0.85 .
It depends on how you define " glass cockpit . " Technology has progressed in steps to the modern " glass cockpits " of the latest aircraft . Who developed the first glass cockpits ? The military appears to be the first place where electronic displays were used . First for specific uses like navigation or targeting scopes , and later gaining more functionality . Which planes first used these glass cockpits ? The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 . The North American <URL> was equipped with a multifunction display and entered service in 1970 . The commercial side of the industry took a bit longer to adopt the technology . The McDonnell Douglas <URL> had a glass primary flight display and navigation display , and entered service in <URL> . Boeing started work on glass cockpits in the <URL> while developing the the Supersonic Transport ( SST ) . While the SST never entered production , the work on glass cockpit technology was <URL> of the <URL> and <URL> , entering service in 1982 and 1983 , respectively . This was based on work with NASA , including <URL> beginning in 1973 . The Airbus <URL> entered service in 1983 , and also used <URL> . The <URL> , entering service in 1988 , was the first aircraft regarded as having a " full " glass cockpit , replacing traditional instruments for the primary flight instruments . How was the current layout developed , were other layouts in use beforehand ? The first displays were generally dedicated to specific functions . For commercial aircraft , there was a primary flight display ( PFD ) showing the pitch and roll of the aircraft . There was also a second display for navigation which displayed the aircraft 's heading . As RedGrittyBrick points out , adding the speed and altitude to the PFD was natural due to their typical position on either side of the PFD . The use of the vertical " tape " format allows the same visual sense of direction as a round dial while taking up less space in the display . Was there any resistance or difficulty in getting these systems adopted amongst pilots or their companies ? Although there was certainly a sense of caution with the introduction of new technology replacing the most important instruments in the cockpit , the benefits were enough to get the changes adopted . <URL> from 1989 , focusing on the " glass cockpit " in the 757 . It covers the effect on the pilots and their opinions of the new technology . The study shows that the pilots had an overall positive view of the new technology , since it reduced their workload and made tasks easier in many situations . However , the report also identified issues with crew members becoming " complacent " due to more automation , and some tasks actually became more difficult with the new systems . There is also the issue of training pilots on the complex new systems , and about what information should be hidden from pilots either during training or in operation of the aircraft . These types of discussions are certainly not going away , as is evidenced by recent events .
The attachment rail/track width ( gauge ) is not fixed . It differs from plane to plane , and the chosen seat manufacturer obliges . 21 " or 55 cm seems the average though . <URL> Source : <URL> Above image shows B717 cross section , you can notice the 3-abreast and 2-abreast both are on two rails . No high-res available . Different plane models : <URL> Some are wall mounted .
Q : Could it fly between any two suitable airports on Earth , i.e. further than 20038km ? A : Not likely <URL>
The VFR on top clearance is often given with a block of altitudes . Such as this from the reference document " Maintain VFR-on-top at or between six thousand and one zero thousand . " With this clearance the pilot can fly any altitude they want within this block of altitudes without having to contact ATC for further clearance . This flexibility can be useful with the conditions are such that the clouds come and go as you fly along . So if you are cruising along at 6500 and encounter a cloud and need to climb to 8500 to maintain clearance you just do it . No need to contact ATC and wait for them to ensure they can clear you higher while the clouds keeps getting bigger and bigger in the windshield . Even if there are not cloud issues , the ability to change altitudes may be useful in seeking an altitude with more favorable winds .
Short answer If a single range should be stated for ACAS II , it would be the reliable range of 14 NM , even if targets can displayed by current TCAS II up to 30/40 NM . Reliable means here : a track can be established with a probability of at least 90 per cent for aircraft within the surveillance range . The reliable range of 14 NM is achievable with a ground plane antenna a power of 250 W and a Mode S sensitivity of -- 74 dBm . Diversity of ranges There are different range values that can be considered : Overall pulse detection range is 30 NM . Reliable surveillance range is 14 NM . Recommended RA range is 12 NM . Guaranteed range is 4.5 NM . The range must be limited because it impacts the number of transponder addresses to be stored for a given transponder density as well as the number of interrogations within a volume , hence radio spectrum use and reliability . ACAS II recommendations by ICAO ACAS II ICAO recommendations are found in <URL> , Airborne Collision Avoidance System ( ACAS ) Manual : Interrogation pulse detection range is 14 NM for Mode A/C and 30 NM for Mode S . The equipment should have the capacity for surveillance of any mix of Mode A/C or Mode S targets up to at least 30 aircraft . Surveillance must be reliable within 14 NM , with an aircraft density of 0.3 aircraft per square NM within 5 NM ( and up to 142 aircraft within 30 NM ) . The equipment should assess as possible collision threats only those targets within a maximum range of 12 NM . No target outside this range should be eligible to generate an RA . As density increases , reliability decreases . If the overall target count ever exceeds the surveillance capacity at any range up to 14 NM , the long-range targets may be dropped . The system reliability is guaranteed within the minimum range of 4.5 NM . This radius is deemed adequate for providing protection for up to 500 kt encounter . TCAS version 7.1 TCAS II is the sole implementation of ACAS II which fully comply with ACAS II . The reference ( paying ) documents are : <URL> ( RTCA ) and <URL> ( EUROCAE ) . From the EASA document <URL> TCAS II can simultaneously track up to 30 aircraft , within a nominal range of 14 NM for Mode A/C targets and 30 NM for Mode S targets . In implementations that allow for the use of the Mode S extended squitter , the normal surveillance range may be increased beyond the nominal 14 NM . However , this information is not used for collision avoidance purposes . This is confirmed in FAA document <URL> TCAS has a requirement to provide reliable surveillance out to a range of 14 nmi and in traffic densities of up to 0.3 aircraft per square nautical mile . [ ... ] TCAS can simultaneously track up to 30 transponder-equipped aircraft within a nominal range of 30 nmi .
For me , it seems that air can escape the parachute by this hole That 's the point , air HAS to escape the parachute anyway , and without the hole it would do so laterally and in an uneven fashion , leading to lateral oscillations . The hole allows the air to escape in a controlled location , avoiding undesired and possibly dangerous oscillations . Some ( most personal ones , but for example not the SR22 one ) parachutes have handles that allow the user to deform the parachute : this allows some extra air to escape from the desired side , giving lateral controllability .
Metal fatigue is normally the limiting factor of an aircraft 's lifespan . Fatigue cracks build up every flight ( start &amp; landing ) , called a cycle . Therefore the design life of an aircraft is typically given in cycles . Metal fatigue cracks source : <URL> For long haul aircraft , that make relatively few cycles , the design lifespan is in the order of 40 000 cycles . For short haul the number is higher , sometimes up to 111 000 cycles . For example , the Boeing 747 has a design number of cycles of 35 000 , the MD-80 has 110 000 . An aircraft should be operable for about 30 years before reaching the cycle limit . The lifetime can be stretched by special inspection and maintenance programs .
Glider pilots in a competition will try to place the center of gravity at the most rearward position possible , sometimes even further back than permitted . This will make the glider statically unstable , but the performance will not be much improved - this is more psychological than real . Do n't discount psychology in competitions : Pilots who feel that they fly an inferior plane will take bigger risks to get ahead and have a much higher chance of spoiling their chances by doing something stupid . Therefore , everyone tries to tweak their plane , even if the tweaking only helps to give a good feeling . Now to the physics : If the center of gravity ( CG ) is right above or below the aerodynamic center ( AC ) , the aircraft 's longitudinal static stability is indifferent . Move it forward and stability increases , move it further back and the plane becomes unstable . The aerodynamic center is where the angle-of-atttack-dependent lift forces act , and in an indifferent configuration the lift coefficient on wing and tail will be equal . Since the aspect ratio of the wing is normally larger than that of the tail , an indifferent configuration will already produce slightly more induced drag for the same lift than a slightly stable configuration . Details depend on the lift loss at the center of the wing due to the fuselage and the combined vorticity of wing and tail , but as a first approximation the above is valid . Moving the CG further aft only makes matters worse . Now it can be argued that the rear CG location helps in maneuvering the aircraft . This might even be helpful with gliders , since they need to maneuver quickly into the center of a thermal , but HALE ( high altitude long endurance ) UAVs fly mostly straight , so maneuvers will be few , slow and deliberate . In essence , moving the CG back in a very stable configuration helps , but the optimum is reached already before the CG reaches the AC . Moving it back even further is detrimental to performance and runs the risk of stalling the tail first due to its high loading . I do not know of any HALE which flies in a statically unstable configuration , and the glider pilots who do will not openly talk about it .
The noise within the engine will make all flow turbulent . There is not much liberty for the engine designer to choose the type of boundary layer . Generally , a laminar boundary layer is preferable as long as the flow is accelerated , because viscous drag will be lower , and a turbulent one is better when it is decelerated , so <URL> . Outside of boundary layer phenomena , turbulence is helpful for keeping the <URL> going in the combustor and especially in the afterburner . Ahead of the combustor all engines have a diffusor to <URL> , so it has time to mix with the fuel and burn as much of it as possible . Note that the diffusor only slows down the axial movement of the air , so radial velocities will not be affected and be relatively larger relative to the axial flow at the entry of the combustion chamber . This makes the flow more turbulent , which is helpful for better fuel-air mixing . In the afterburner , flame holders are needed to produce pockets of slow-moving , hot gas which can ignite the fuel-air mixture . Again , they cause more turbulence . <URL> Flame holder ( 10 ) with annular selectors ( 9 ) of an afterburner ( picture <URL> ) At the nozzle , turbulent mixing of the hot core flow and the bypass flow reduces noise . Engine nozzles use a <URL> to speed up the mixing process .
For the current format , it was 1993 when it was standardized . On July 1 , 1993 , a new , revised Terminal Aerodrome Forecast ( TAF ) format and code replaced the existing TAF code . This new code is in effect in most countries . The exceptions are the United States and Canada . These two countries issue Terminal Forecasts for domestic use and TAFs for the military and those airports serving international aviation . On January 1 , 1996 the U.S. and Canada will convert entirely to the new TAF code . After that date , the new code for weather reports ( METAR ) and TAFs will be used worldwide . The North American code used in the FT ( and SAO ) will be discontinued . Although the new TAF code is being adopted worldwide , each country is allowed to make modifications or exceptions to the code for use in each particular country . The TAF code , as described here , is the one used in the United States for those airports serving international aviation and will also be used after the January 1 , 1996 conversion date . The World Meteorological Organization 's ( WMO ) publication No. 782 " Aerodrome Reports and Forecasts " contains the base METAR and TAF code as adopted by the WMO member countries . ( <URL> ) <URL> also confirms the date for the US . The WMO publication No. 782 can be <URL> .
In a jet engine using the <URL> , number 4 is the station numbering of combustor exit/turbine nozzle guide vane leading edge , and T4 is the temperature at this station . <URL> ( <URL> ) From this document ( in French ) : <URL> which is a thesis by Elodie Roux , this table on page 198 : <URL> tells us the T4 temperature is 1633 K , that is 1360 ° C.
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
end question
start question
What qualifies as a major overhaul ?
It 's probably not possible to get a caveat-free zero since major if any time has been logged since the log entry . You 're tracking two numbers now : Time since bottom Time since top ( if a top was done , maybe cyls have just been replaced as necessary ... that 's perfectly fine ) . This really is n't a big deal , practically speaking , but entries like these would have me asking follow-up questions as a buyer only because it 's unusual see a bottom OH without the top being done as well . That said , it 's very common to see and engine topped at least once between overhauls which has the effect of staggering top and bottom times anyway ! Assuming that you 're in the US and operating under pt91 the engine can be run on-condition for as long as it stays healthy . This could be 4,000 hrs over 50yrs if you know how to manage your engine . If you 're dead set on having a " typical " 0 SMOH entry in the logs you 'll likely have to have the whole engine overhauled again . Do n't do that . A bottom with 500hrs is safer than a freshly overhauled engine anyway . Was it a stationary strike or was the engine running ? What kind of engine is it ?
An oversimplification for sure : Turbochargers essentially compress the air going into the engine ( cylinders ) to maintain ( near ) sea level pressure internally , so the external density altitude does n't affect the performance of the engine . The " liability " at low density altutudes is that it is possible to over-boost the engine , potentially damaging it . See <URL> for more in-depth explanation and the liability of having a turbocharger at low density altitude .
I may have more news on that next week from Sun 'n Fun 2017 . Pipistrel will be an exhibitor at the show and may have a Panthera prototype on display . Currently the Panthera is planned to be released as an experimental kit and may be type certified at some point in the future . I know the program has suffered some setbacks , including an increase of empty weight by some 200 lbs . New aircraft development is never fast nor without complications . The Panthera does look intriguing - 200 KIAS on 10 GPH with good , stable flight characteristics and modern avionics , BRS parachute , etc. . I want to take it for a demo flight when production examples become available .
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
AVTUR stands for AViation TURbine Fuel and is equivalent to JP-1 , at least in the UK and in as much as JP-1 no longer exists . I believe that the US military equivalent is JP8 which is Jet-A1 with additional additives , which differs from commercial Jet-A only by a lower freezing point . <URL> for Avtur with is the same defstan as for Jet-A1 . <URL> to an Exxon document gives a great deal of information for various aviation fuel oils . [ EDIT ] <URL> JP-8 is the military equivalent of Jet A-1 with the addition of corrosion inhibitor and anti-icing additives ; it meets the requirements of the U.S. Military Specification MIL-T-83188D . It is the dominant military jet fuel grade for NATO airforces . The UK also have a specification for this grade namely DEF STAN 91-87 AVTUR/FSII ( formerly DERD 2453 ) . NATO Code F-34 .
The pilots were probably executing a Cat II coupled or monitored approach . The PF is flying the plane ( via autopilot , usually ) , while the PNF had his hands at the base of the throttle ready to take over to initiate a manual go around ( or land in some cases , this varies from airline to airline ) . There is a <URL> . It gives one version of the procedure : At my airline we use this procedure for Cat II approaches . The FO always flies the approach ... well the autopilot flies it and the FO monitors the instruments , ready to perform a missed approach if the approach becomes unstable . The Captain at the 500 to minimums call places their hand near the base of the thrust levers , under the FOs arm , and focuses outside looking for the runway . If at any point prior to minimums the captain gets the runway in sight , they call " landing , my controls " and move their hand up to the thrust levers , bumping the FOs arm and hand up and off of the thrust levers . If at minimums and the runway is not in sight the FO performs the missed approach .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
Helicopters can fly the same standard IAPS . The visibility minimum is the greater of We use Category A 's MDA/DH . See the <URL> for more information . Also there are Copter IAPs ( example <URL> ) , and the viz/altitude minimums are stated on those plates .
Large aircraft use <URL> which uses only air , compressors and heat exchangers to cool/heat the air . There is no freon involved .
Yes , <URL> , former Formula 1 pilot and ATPL holder , founded <URL> , for which he also <URL> . Lauda returned to running his airline , Lauda Air , on his second Formula One retirement in 1985 . During his time as airline manager , he was appointed consultant at Ferrari as part of an effort by Montezemolo to rejuvenate the team . After selling his Lauda Air shares to majority partner Austrian Airlines in 1999 , he managed the Jaguar Formula One racing team from 2001 to 2002 . In late 2003 , he started a new airline , Niki . Lauda holds a commercial pilot 's licence and from time to time acted as a captain on the flights of his airline . Lauda Air ceased operations in July 2013 .
All my quotes for this post comes from FAA Order <URL> , the Surface Weather Observing Guide . Visibility is defined as " Visibility is a measure of the horizontal opacity of the atmosphere at the point of observation and is expressed in terms of the horizontal distance at which a person should be able to see and identify specific objects . " All METARs report Prevailing Visibility , which is : " Prevailing visibility is the greatest visibility equaled or exceeded throughout at least half the horizon circle , which does not necessarily have to be continuous . This is the visibility that is considered representative of visibility conditions at the station . " Automated stations , generally report a max visibility of 10 SM . Now if you look at stations that are completely manual , i.e. KBJC ( when I worked there it was a completely manual station ) , we 'd report anywhere up to 70SM or higher visibility , due to our visibility markers . - RA can often be easily seen through , RA or RA + do become harder to see through , and as always , it can be dependant on where the - RA is , if it 's only in a tiny quadrant of the horizon circle , it can often be a greater visibility . [ Edit Post comment about RA ] : Sorry , used a few more abbreviations . SM = Statute Miles , which is like a regular mile that most people use in their daily lives . It 's depicted as SM , due to most other things in aviation being in Nautical Miles . - RA , RA , + RA , are the various descriptors for Rain . - RA means light rain , which if just using vis concerns is defined as , " From scattered drops that , regardless of duration , do not completely wet an exposed surface up to a condition where individual drops are easily seen . " RA , is Moderate Rain , defined as : " Individual drops are not clearly identifiable ; spray is observable just above pavements and other hard surfaces " and + RA is heavy Rain , " Rain seemingly falls in sheets ; individual drops are not identifiable ; heavy spray to height of several inches is observed over hard surfaces . " Also , METAR is the type of aviation weather report . METAR 's are the hourly/standard report , and then there 's SPECI 's which if certain changes occur in conditions , from Freezing Rain , to changes in visibility or cloud ceilings , to massive wind shifts , to thunderstorms , to other factors , can be produced outside of the hourly/regular report .
&#72; ello - your Friendly Neighborhood Parachute Rigger here . Sport chutes are pretty reliable , have been since the mid 90s to the point where more accidents happen under fully functional canopies . If we disregard rank stupidity like tying the flaps shut1 or incompetent packing we find that the leading cause of malfunctions is bad body position on deployment . You are supposed to be face down , shoulders level before opening the thing . If you are on your back or tumbling you can have various parts wrap around you . High-performance canopies are somewhat more sensitive to the shoulders being level and can open in a decently fast spin . Depending on the spin direction and your altitude you may not be able to recover2 . The emergency chutes are built differently , emphasizing ( obviously ) reliability over being able to land at 100km/h . This means that twisted lines are either recoverable or not an issue . If the jumper is n't paying attention to where he is , you may find that a leading cause of going splat is not using the perfectly good canopy on your back . Automatic activators have more-or-less eliminated this as a common cause3 , but if the jumper thinks that the houses look a bit too big and deploys the main at the same time as the reserve opens they may decide to wrap each other up . Ram-air canopies are like badgers - they do n't like each other very much and having two open at the same time is a rather delicate situation . If we turn to landing accidents , we find that there are all kinds of ways to injure or kill yourself with a fully functional canopy overhead . The aforementioned 100km/h landing speed is no joke - hit an obstacle on the ground going that fast and it 's exactly the same as jumping out of a car on the highway . Buildings , trees , power lines , vehicles , running propellers etc. have all claimed their sacrifices . And do n't try to land on both sides of the fence at the same time . Or in the alligator farm across the road . Mechanical failure of the system is very rare - riggers wo n't pack worn-out reserves , and if they are concerned about someone 's main they will tell the dropzone management who will usually decline to provide services until it 's fixed . Many jumpers will tie various handles to the pack before travelling . Prevents the pack accidentally opening when curious security or customs pick it up by what looks like the carry handle . Remove before Flight ! Happened to me twice - the first time I looked up , then down , decided I did n't have enough time to fix it . The second time it was spinning the other way and I fixed it in 2 seconds . Automatic activators fire at 750-1000 feet . If you are in freefall below that altitude you 're usually done .
Emergency landings often dictate landing at the safest airport , not necessarily the closest one . As I said in the comments , the flight was operating IFR and had turned the window heater on presumably for anti-ice . It could be that a line of weather was preventing VFR operation at closer airports and they diverted to the closest possible VFR airport . When encountering an emergency there are things you do n't want to do . You do n't want to panic to get the aircraft down if the aircraft is perfectly flyable . You do n't want to make major configuration changes , especially multiple ones , quickly . Pilots are taught to <URL> in that order . As a pilot you should prioritize flying the plane , work the problem , and determine the safest place to put down . It is possible in this case that they could have continued IFR , but if they encountered icing below the missed approach point they would have been put in a situation with icing and no visual references . It is also possible that the pilots recognized that some electrical problem was at fault , and even without icing conditions they would want to remain VFR because they did n't trust the electrical system would continue to function throughout the IFR approach and landing .
At that point it was indeed the flaps extending in preparation of takeoff ( you can see them moving through the rain ) . You would typically also be able to hear the cargo doors closing ( before the plane starts taxiing ) and the engines ramping up as you start to take off ( <URL> in the same video ) .
Design The key point is that these vehicles are not designed to perform such maneuvers . A coast-guard lifeboat is designed to self-recover from a capsize and can <URL> . A cruise-liner would not survive being rolled over completely . If a vehicle is not designed to perform a high stress maneuver it is safe to assume an unmodified vehicle can not do so without incurring severe damage . Inside loop Regarding an inside loop , the <URL> says Looping a 747 or a DC-10 would be trickier [ than rolling one ... ] Boeing suspects its planes could make it , but since no one has ever been silly enough to try , there 's no way of knowing for sure . Outside loop An outside loop is much much more stressful on airframe and pilots as it involves negative G. Airliners have flight envelopes that have much less capability under negative G . There must be a very high probability the aircraft would break up when attempting an outside loop . Roll A barrel roll is a less stressful maneuver . 60 years ago , in 1955 , <URL> , a Boeing test pilot performed a <URL> . So far as I can find out , no one has since deliberately attempted to replicate this stunt in a commercial airliner . At the time of publishing his autobiography , the pilot claimed in a <URL> that the stunt was planned by him but unknown to his boss . in 1985 <URL> , a 747 , inadvertently executed a half roll but suffered structural damage . It rolled to 60 degrees before the pilot disengaged the autopilot , the pilots suffered spatial disorientation and the roll continued into a dive . The pilots obviously were n't flying the aircraft within its limits - meaning you ca n't read a lot into this , other than it might be easy to break up the aircraft while attempting this sort of maneuver .
Air forces use special training rigs rather than real ejection seats . <URL> Plenty of pilots have survived ejection ( Wikipedia says " As of 20 June 2011 ... the number of lives saved by Martin-Baker products was 7,402 from 93 air forces " ) The types of injury are illustrated by <URL> The ejection seat has been responsible for saving the lives of thousands of pilots around the world since its introduction in the late 1940s . Typical survival rates quoted in the literature vary from 80 -- 97 % . It is generally accepted that radiographic evidence of vertebral fracture can be found in 30 % -- 70 % of aircrew after ejection The reason real ejection seats are not used is almost certainly the high risk of injury . Ejecting clear from a high speed jet requires a lot of acceleration .
Even without instrument error , IAS does not equal CAS . This because there are two kinds of errors that make up the difference between Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) and Calibrated Airspeed ( CAS ) Installation error Instrument error Installation error is basically a pressure error . Airspeed measurement is a measure of dynamic pressure of the undisturbed airflow . When the pitot tube is not placed directly into undisturbed airflow the IAS will not equal the CAS . Another source of installation error are leaks in the pitot system . Instrument error is the error introduced by ASI itself by transforming the pressure to a speed indication . For example calibration errors of the pressure sensor or excessive friction in the mechanical drive system of the dial fall into this category . The POH in your example assumes no Instrument error , but is corrected for installation error . An implicit assumption is made that there are no leaks in the system , so the POH corrects for airflow disturbances . That is why some aircraft have different tables for different configurations ; the configurations affect the airflow around the pitot tube . In aircraft equipped with electronic Air Data Computers ( ADC 's ) the installation error is sometimes automatically corrected by making use of angle of attack sensors , electronic configuration information and lookup tables .
Passenger operations are overwhelmingly scheduled whereas cargo is on demand and thus less easy to plan . The upside : A cargo plane crew will fly quite diverse routes . The downside : Capacity utilisation is much worse . This shifts the balance of cost such that fixed cost must be much lower than what is possible with scheduled services . As a consequence , older aircraft with much lower depreciation cost are preferred . With them it is less costly if they do n't move for some hours or even days . Operating cost are more important when the aircraft flies as much as technically possible . Especially low cost airlines need to operate hardware with the lowest operating cost possible so they survive the next price war . Premium airlines also have a need for the newest planes : This makes them look premium and more safe . Cargo operators have no such incentive to prefer the newest airplanes ; they profit from the need of passenger airlines to sell their older hardware off . The Economist wrote in April 2013 about Norwegian Air Shuttle : As fuel prices soared in the mid-2000s , and competition from the likes of Ryanair and easyJet intensified , Mr Kjos realised that the only route to survival was to buy lots of new , fuel-efficient planes to achieve economies of scale , and to base some of them in cheaper countries . Boeing and Airbus are straining to keep up with booming demand for new aircraft , so by reserving a large chunk of their delivery slots NAS is denying potential rivals the chance to refresh their fleets with better planes . If an airline is large enough , ordering new aircraft has the added benefit of saturating supply and denying the same aircraft to its competitors . If oil prices are high , this airline will have won the price war before it started in earnest .
Briefly , " overhaul " is n't a strictly defined term but it 's generally used to refer to the intensive inspection , maintenance and repair of an aircraft component , frequently - but not exclusively - the engines . The word overhaul by itself is a general term that 's used in all sorts of places but it 's not defined in <URL> , for example . The most specific definition I could find is in <URL> between the FAA and EASA : " Overhaul " means a process that ensures the aeronautical article is in complete conformity with the applicable service tolerances specified in the type certificate holder 's , or equipment manufacturer 's instructions for continued airworthiness , or in the data which is approved or accepted by the Authority . No person may describe an article as being overhauled unless it has been at least disassembled , cleaned , inspected , repaired as necessary , reassembled and tested in accordance with the above-specified data . Note that that definition only mentions " aeronautical articles " , which is very broad indeed and not limited to just engines , airframes or anything else . In the general aviation world , a very common usage of " overhaul " is in the context of piston engines , which have a <URL> ( TBO or TBOH ) set by the manufacturer . Once an engine reaches that number of hours , it needs to be overhauled . But even there , the term is n't precise and the FAA has a circular called Reciprocating Engine Overhaul Terminology and Standards that explains what it usually means : c. Overhaul . In the general aviation industry , the term engine overhaul has two identifications that make a distinction between the degrees of work on an engine : ( 1 ) Major Overhaul . A major overhaul consists of the complete disassembly of an engine . The overhaul facility inspects the engine , repairs it as necessary , reassembles , tests , and approves it for return to service within the fits and limits specified by the manufacturer 's overhaul data . This could be to new fits and limits or serviceable limits . The engine owner should clearly understand what fits and limits should be used when the engine is presented for overhaul . The owner should also be aware of any replaced parts , regardless of condition , as a result of a manufacturer 's overhaul data , SB , or an Airworthiness Directive ( AD ) . ( 2 ) Top Overhaul . Top overhaul consists of repair to parts outside of the crankcase , and can be accomplished without completely disassembling the entire engine . It can include the removal of cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinder walls , pistons , valve-operation mechanisms , valve guides , valve seats , and the replacement of piston and piston rings . All manufacturers do not recommend a top overhaul . Some manufacturers indicate that a powerplant requiring work to this extent should receive a complete overhaul . Apart from that usage , the term <URL> seems to be <URL> in the airline industry to describe maintenance facilities , but there is n't any specific definition that I could find . So there 's no single definition of " overhaul " . It just means that you 've very thoroughly inspected and tested something on an aircraft , whether it 's an engine or a wheel , and you 've verified that it 's fit to be used in flight , i.e. it 's airworthy . The reasons why it 's important are probably obvious ; they 're the same reasons that your car needs regular servicing to run safely , efficiently and reliably .
Possible and Plausible are two different things . Is it possible to fly a fighter jet between a missile and another aircraft , and either ( a ) confuse that missile so it follows the fighter instead ) or ( b ) have the fighter be hit by the missile instead of the original target aircraft ? Yes . Modern fighters are capable of maneuvering in the manner shown : they can even sustain knife-edge flight or vertical climb for a while . It 's even possible that in a moment of desperation a pilot would attempt such a maneuver , sacrificing themselves and their aircraft to save their commander-in-chief . ( The G-forces involved in these maneuvers may be unpleasant or even unbearable for the pilot , but if you 're committing yourself to a course of action that ends with your plane blowing up to save another plane the G-forces are probably the least of your concerns . ) It is n't plausible that such a maneuver would work - at least not as depicted in the movie . Missiles are REALLY FAST - <URL> ( at it 's slowest relative velocity ) , and it 's still pretty darn quick : It 's gone in a few frames of high-speed footage . For this maneuver to work the intercepting pilot would need to be in exactly the right position and exactly the right time , and perform the maneuver perfectly in order to intercept the missile : A little error in any direction - too fast , too slow , too far left , or too far right - and the missile would fly right past them and continue on toward its target . The intercept is further complicated by the fact that , assuming the missile is guided , both the missile and the target are maneuvering as well . ( If it 's a non-guided " dumb " missile all the target aircraft needs to do is change course to avoid being hit - a maneuver that might stress the airframe a bit , but certainly less than being hit by a missile would . ) To give a little more context , the " anti-missile missile " programs have often been described as having your friend throw a baseball over the roof of your house while you stand on the other side and try to hit it with a golfball as it comes over the top . This intercept is of similar difficulty , except the balls involved are all steering themselves toward different objectives .
end question
start question
Do multi engines face the torque effect ?
Maybe you mean the p-factor . If both engines are rotating clockwise , the plane yaws to the right . If one rotates clockwise , the other counter-clockwise , the effect cancelles out and the plane flys straight .
You 'll find this info in helicopter performance design literature . The power to drive the rotor ( and a propellor ) can be sub-divided into three parts : useful power , induced power , and profile power . The solidity ratio shows up in the profile power part . Like in aerodynamics , the power/thrust equations are often made dimensionless and evaluated in coefficients . From Helicopter Test and Evaluation by Cooke and Fitzpatrick , section 2.4 : $ C_P = C_T \ left ( \ frac { V_C + v_i } { V_T } \ right ) + \ frac { s \ cdot C_D } { 8 } $ with $ s $ being solidity ratio . So solidity ratio shows up in the profile drag power portion , which makes sense .
The thrust of a propeller is proportional to the inverse of airspeed , while the thrust of a pure turbojet is roughly constant over airspeed in the subsonic region . This means that two airplanes with the same static thrust , one propeller-powered and the other jet-powered , will reach very different top speeds . And , <URL> , piston engines are <URL> . A piston engine produces a constant <URL> $ \ tau $ , independent of speed . This torque drives the propeller which produces work $ W$ per unit of time on the air passing through it . This work per unit of time is power $ P$ and proportional to the product of torque and propeller speed $ \ omega $ , which is again constant over airspeed $ v $ . The power to propel the aircraft is the product of thrust and airspeed and equals engine power times propeller efficiency $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ . When airspeed goes up , thrust must go down proportionally for power to stay constant . $ $ P = \ tau \ cdot \ omega = T \ cdot v \ cdot \ eta _ { Prop } $ $ $ $ \ Rightarrow T \ varpropto \ frac { 1 } { v } $ $ Turbojets , on the other hand , profit from flight speed because the intake pre-compresses the air when it slows down ahead of and in the intake . This pre-compression lifts the pressure level of the whole engine , so it sees an increased mass flow with increasing speed , producing higher thrust . This effect by itself would increase thrust in proportion with the square of flight speed , but the same effect which reduces the thrust of a propeller acts on a turbojet as well . This effect , however , is less pronounced because the jet <URL> , and both cancel each other , roughly . Turbofans are more similar to propeller engines , so here the thrust goes down over airspeed , and <URL> . Turboprops are even closer to piston-powered propellers , so their thrust drops even more with increasing speed . This means that the speed at which drag equals thrust drops when you move from turbojets to turbofans , and further to turboprops and is lowest for piston-powered propeller aircraft .
Not yet . To look at a medium-range aircraft , let 's base the engine on the <URL> or the <URL> . Those engines produce between 100 and 150 kN static thrust . In cruise , their thrust is <URL> due to the low density in cruise altitude and due to them moving at Mach 0.8 . Let 's use a value of 25 kN - this is enough so that two of them will comfortably push an <URL> class airframe through the thin air at altitude . The power to produce such an amount of thrust is force times speed . The speed when flying with Mach 0.8 in <URL> is 240 m/s , so the power produced by one engine is 6.0 MW . Now <URL> an electric motor has to be to produce 6 MW continuously . As you can see from the linked Wikipedia page , the results are all over the place . Big , industrial motors come in at less than 1 kW/kg , so our motor would weigh more than 6 tons . The smaller motors for electric airplanes are pushing 10 kW/kg , the power-to-weight ratio of the <URL> , but will lose some of that when scaled up to size . Remember , even at 98 % efficiency the motor will generate 120 kW of heat - this needs to be removed , and operating in thin air does n't make this easy . With current technology the motor could achieve maybe 2 to 3 kW/kg - this means the motor driving our hypothetical engine comes in at 2 to 3 tons . Add to this the fan and the fairing of the jet engine ( we will not need the high-pressure part and all the turbines ) , but double the fan weight because we need to compensate for the missing high-energy core flow . This will maybe weigh 50 % of the CFM56 / V2500 , so we need to add another 1.2 tons . The electric motor will be twice as heavy as the parts it replaces . There is still some work to do before it can gain an advantage over current jet engines , but it has some potential because it does not dump half of the energy supplied to it overboard in a hot , fast-moving , noisy gas stream . EDIT : Since so many people get excited about me omitting the energy density aspect of electric propulsion , even though the question did expressly desire to leave this out , here are two things to consider . Energy density is only half of the problem of electric storage . The <URL> of jet fuel is around 43 MJ/kg , while Lithium polymer batteries achieve not even one MJ/kg . But this comparison is linear thinking - realistically , the current will be produced either by a high-efficiency turbine-generator combination , or by fuel cells , burning hydrogen at twice the efficiency of a conventional jet engine . Since hydrogen packs 142 MJ per kilogram , at twice the efficiency the electric airliner would need only 162 kg of hydrogen for every ton of kerosene in a conventional jet . Yes , I know , even then its volume will still be a problem . If any form of batteries is used , the fact that empty batteries weigh as much as full ones is the final nail in the coffin of battery-powered flight . While your average long-range jet <URL> , the battery-powered jet would need to schlepp those heavy batteries all the way to the final destination . To be competitive , those hypothetical batteries would need to have twice the energy density of kerosene .
The legal issues are <URL> . The FAA does n't currently regulate recreational model aircraft operations , which includes quadcopters . Were you to actually fly it over the fence , you could be <URL> . If you had any intent to cause harm , other charges might apply ( up to attempted murder if you were trying to bring down an airliner ) . Can I crash a plane with it ? Not likely . If you flew the quadcopter into a jet engine intake , you might be able to shut down the engine ( similar to <URL> ) . This would really annoy the flight crew but would normally not result in a crash . A strike in any other place is probably going to merely dent something on the plane , and utterly destroy your quadcopter . For a small plane , <URL> is a possibility , and this would be a serious hazard that could cause a crash , but is quite unlikely . Without some kind of advanced guidance system , it 's going to be very hard to hand-fly the copter into a plane at all , let alone precisely target a vulnerable point . The bottom line , though , is do n't do it . Is this a new terrorist attack vector ? Maybe ! The use of unmanned aerial systems by terrorists is a subject of concern and research in the defense community . The <URL> has <URL> . Drones are already being <URL> . There have also been some high-profile incidents where terrorists were able to tamper with , and in at least one case eavesdrop on , a U.S. military drone by <URL> . I do n't know of any publicized instances of someone intentionally causing damage with a UAV or model airplane , but I 'm sure the terrorists are thinking about it .
The short answer to your question is : Yes However ... Its generally advised to avoid making abrupt power changes to aircraft engines ( piston and <URL> ) to avoid surge and potential starvation issues . You are usually taught to apply and reduce power smoothly when learning to fly . Aircraft piston engines are not really all that different than older air cooled car engines ( think VW and early Porsche ( there was an aircraft certified <URL> ) ) . As such they can ( and sometimes do ) suffer from the same pitfalls . The difference you may see in aircraft engines is that they tend to be a bit better set up and less tinkered with than car engines . Like any gas engine aircraft engines have been known to , on occasion suffer from <URL> and fuel pump failure as well . The most <URL> up due to high moisture and low temperatures at higher altitudes . Airplanes have carb heating systems that are manually controlled from the cockpit to solve this problem . What would happen or what could be done if this scenario occurs ? Generally speaking this is a rare occurrence and often happens on the ground . Keep in mind that plane throttles are ( during a routine flight ) adjusted far less than a car throttle . In a car you may be going through a street with lots of stop lights causing you to go from idle to cruise/launch power frequently . In an airplane this really only happens once on take off and to an extend when reaching cruise . When you taxi out and line up you will advance the throttle to full/takeoff power to get in the air . You may then keep it there for your climb or elect for a slightly reduced climb power depending on the situation . You will climb to your cruising altitude and throttle back to between 55 % - 75 % power for cruise . Fly your flight and at some point you will get where you need to be and throttle back to your decent/landing power . In the case of entering the runway and lining up if you starve the engine when you apply power you are assumed to be either not moving or barely rolling and should be safe . If you pull the power to quickly on decent and stall the engine you may be gliding distance from an airfield and or have time for a restart . When it happened in cars sometimes you could not restart until the residual fuel was burnt by cranking the engine for some time . Does this apply also to aviation engines ? One neat thing that planes have which most cars done is mixture control . As a result you can pull the mixture control all the way out on a plane ( how the plane is shut down ) , crank the engine , and draw the fuel out of the carb . Some cars will keep pumping fuel and filling up the carb while you crank ( since you cant over ride the fuel pump ) . Generally a flooded car engine you have to wait for it all to evaporate out . The question arises from the fact that the design of the engines are quite old from my understanding . Age has little to do with these issues . Fundamentally the internal combustion has changed little since its inception in terms of the way it physically works . While they have gotten far more efficient and reliable the physics are more or less what they have always been . Its our manufacturing technology that has made the engines better . Surging/starving an old engine and surging/starving a new engine will produce a similar issue . Aircrafts use older engines due to the complexity and cost of certifying anything for use in an aircraft . For what its worth Ford has been using the same basic V-8 for as long as some aircraft engines have been around likewise Porsche squeezed a remarkable 30 years out of the same basic air-cooled engine design in the 911 ( 911 up through 993 variant ) . Side Note : As mentioned its expensive to get a new engine put into service . That being said there are common airplane engines out there ( <URL> ) that have fuel injection . As computers become more common place in aviation <URL> systems are becoming more common in airplanes . In the end of the day however , some of these choices come down to manufacture decisions . Some makers prefer to leave things in the hands of the pilots , in other words you can pull and advance the throttle how ever you like and the fuel/air delivery system will behave as such . Other makers have begun to put safe guards in place to prevent this , and they will ( no matter how you operate the throttle ) ensure proper advance and retard of all mechanisms as fast as possible should you operate the throttle vigorously .
There are several kinds of power reduction which could happen after takeoff : Cutback ( noise reduction when the airplane is very low , after takeoff ) Climb thrust Both are set on the CDU ( Control Display Unit , the screen and keyboard of the FMC , Flight Management Computer ) . Since you describe a temporary and dramatical power decrease , this should be the cutback . When you hear the power increase again , it must be that the setting goes from cutback to climb thrust . In the B737-800 The cutback option on the CDU This is the CDU ( Control Display Unit ) , where you set up the cutback . It is in the second page of TAKEOFF REF . Here is the screen before turning cutback ON . <URL> ACCEL HT : This is the height ( above ground level ) at which we will let the plane accelerate ( we will lower the pitch a little bit and gradually retract flaps ) . EO ACCEL HT : Same as above , but applies when one engine is not running ( Engine Out Accelaration Height ) . This setting will be used in case of engine failure after takeoff . REDUCTION : This is the height at which the thrust setting will go from TOGA to CLIMB . We need maximal thrust during takeoff , because it 's a critical phase and it 's safer . But at the same time , keeping this setting too long decreases the engines lifetime because of the high temperature . It also burns more fuel , it 's noisier and less environment-friendly . That 's the reason why the airplane wo n't climb with maximum thrust . But this question is about cutback . Here is CDU again after turning cutback ON . <URL> CUTBACK N1 : This will be the target N1 setting when the REDUCTION height will be reached . The Auto-throttle together with the EEC will arrange for maintaining this lower shaft speed ( here you can see it 's 84,6 % ) . This will be a lot less noisy but will still provide enough power to climb ! EO ACCEL HT : Same as above REDUCTION : At this height , cutback will happen and CUTBACK N1 will be the engines target N1 speed . RESTORE : This is the height at which cutback is no longer needed , and climb thrust N1 setting will be the new N1 target for the engines ( 92.3 % in this example ) . Takeoff with cutback This is the takeoff roll . IAS indicator is not active yet ( below 45KIAS ) . Ground Speed is currently 35kt . N1 and TO/GA are displayed on the FMA ( Flight Mode Annunciator ) at the top of the PFD ( Primary Flight Display ) . On the right , you can see on the ED ( Engine Display ) that the green marker is indicating TO thrust ( because of TO/GA mode ) . <URL> Few seconds after the rotation . You can see at the bottom of the PFD the radio altimeter indicating 300ft AGL . We have n't reached the REDUCTION height , so the cutback is not active yet . The ED still indicates TO thrust and the green markers are just below 100 % N1 . <URL> Few seconds after reaching REDUCTION height . N1 is active on the FMA . Radio altimeter indicates 960ft AGL , this is above our REDUCTION height , so the cutback should be active and our engines should be a little quieter . A look at the ED and we can see that the green target N1 marker is now indicating 82.6 % N1 . Our engines are still rotating faster than that ( 98 % N1 ) , and the EEC is currently decreasing the fuel flow arriving to the combustion chambers . <URL> We are now reaching 2500ft AGL . This is below the RESTORE height of 3000ft , so the cutback is still active , as shown by the ED . The green target N1 marker is indicating 83.0 % N1 and the current N1 for both engines is also 83.0 % N1 . In 500ft , the N1 target speed should increase again to climb thrust settings . <URL> We 've just reached the RESTORE height ( above 3000ft AGL ) , and we can see the green markers show 92.3 % . We are back to the climb thrust settings and our plane is loud again ! The flaps are still down , and the pink speed marker on the PFD just moved to the top . We are going to retract the flaps and slats , and accelerate to 250KIAS . It seems that RESTORE height is also the ACCELERATION height when cutback mode has been turned on . [ I 'm not sure , could a B737 pilot confirm this ? ] <URL> The flaps are up , our speed is now 250KIAS . <URL> Further readings <URL> <URL>
Well , first let 's clear up a few terms . When you say " rotary " engine I 'm assuming you 're referring to <URL> , a type of piston engine that used to be pretty common on aircraft . ( These days <URL> are what you typically find on piston-powered aircraft , <URL> are yet another design , but their usage died out around the end of World War I. ) The TU-95 is not actually a piston-powered aircraft - it 's a <URL> -- basically a turbine engine similar to what you 'd find in a jet , only rigged up to turn a propeller rather than produce " jet thrust " directly . From an efficiency standpoint , turbine engines are usually more fuel efficient than their piston counterparts , and jet fuel is produced in greater volume than aviation gasoline and is consequently cheaper for operators to procure . Turbine engines also offer more reliability than piston engines , and the maintenance on a turboprop engine is also largely similar to a jet engine with a few extra components , which is an advantage for a company operating a fleet of jet and propeller driven aircraft . The differences in operating efficiency and reliability are the major reason why gasoline-powered piston engines have basically disappeared from scheduled airline service . So why do n't we see more turboprops ? Actually we see a lot of them , if you look in the right places . Jets and Turboprops are good at different things -- broadly simplifying , a turboprop is more efficient at lower altitudes and airspeeds while a jet engine is more efficient at higher altitudes and airspeeds . As a result we see turboprop aircraft like <URL> in use for short-haul " commuter " service , but for trans-continental or trans-oceanic flights where they spend a long time cruising at high altitude jets dominate the sky . Since most people are flying to go relatively long distances there are comparatively more jets in scheduled airline service than turboprops . Noise is probably also a factor - fast turboprops like the Bear are LOUD not due to the engine , but due to the propeller . The tips of the spinning propeller on a TU-95 can approach supersonic speeds , which causes quite a bit of noise . The TU-95 's <URL> ( which help produce thrust more efficiently ) also contribute to a louder noise footprint . In the case of the TU-95 this does n't matter - it 's a military plane , and the Russian air force does n't care if people complain as the aircraft has a mission to complete and that 's more important than a few noise complaints . If United Airlines were to operate a TU-95 out of Kennedy departing over people 's houses I suspect they would quickly reconsider their choice of equipment when the noise complaints started coming in ...
For ungeared two-spool designs , bypass ratios can not be increased further . Since the fan is coupled to the low-speed turbine , increasing it would overload the turbine . Only if the engine is run at a higher core temperature can the power provided by the low-speed turbine be increased . This would require either better materials ( which are not available ) or lower times between overhauls ( which are costly ) . Note that the engines of the <URL> family have the biggest bypass ratios . Rolls-Royce went with three-spool designs which allow for a finer adjustment of the speed of the different engine components . When a <URL> , even a two-spool design can support a larger fan , and this solution will be used in the next generation of <URL> engines . Smaller engines like the <URL> which is used in the <URL> , used this already years ago to fit a fan to a single-spool engine . For bigger engines , transmitting the enormous power in a compact gearbox was too challenging until now . Just the heat generated by the gearbox of a 200 kN thrust class engine running at 98 % efficiency would be almost 400 kW - this needs to be shed somehow ! Another problem remains , however . Bigger fans need bigger nacelles , and their drag increases with the square of the fan diameter increase . Increasing the bypass ratio of a high-bypass engine even further yields diminishing returns , which tend to be compensated by the increased nacelle drag once the bypass ratio grows beyond 12 to 15 . To make bigger bypass ratios economical , active laminarisation on the nacelle will be needed .
No the paddle acts as an inverted wing and pushes air up , this in turn will push the glider up . Even with ground effect a non-powered glider can not maintain height and speed .
Fuel efficiency . One engine can run more efficiently than two , even if the two have the same power output combined than the one . Friction losses , inertia losses , etc. . . The same thing can be seen in commercial airliners today . Now that gas turbines have reached a very reliable state , and the regulations for overwater flight recognize this , we are seeing large two engine widebodies ( 777 ) replacing four engine widebodies ( A340 ) , partially due to lower maintenance costs ( cheaper to rebuild two large engines than four smaller ones ) but mainly for reasons of fuel consumption . The <URL> that made the round the world unrefueled flight had two engines , but only used both for takeoff and initial climb . After that , the one was shut down for the duration of the flight , for reasons of fuel consumption . Obviously , two engines are more reliable than one , and yes , a single engine long range flight is risky .
Multiple-engine configurations use multiple freewheeling units that couple the rotor with the engine and allow the first to revolve faster than the latter but not the other way around . If just one of the engines fails , the freewheeling unit for that particular engine will effectively disengage the engine from the rotor ( as the rotor is now revolving faster than the failing engine ) , allowing the other engine ( s ) to drive it . How a freewheeling unit functions on a mechanical level is described on page 6 of <URL> document .
The images look a lot like the ones in : <URL> The classic paper on multi element airfoils , great read !
The noise is created by sparks caused by static electricity . As the aircraft flies through the air , it picks up electrons from the air molecules . This extra charge will want to flow back into the air to equalize the charge . Small gaps in the conductive path on the aircraft will cause sparks to form . These sparks cause noise on radio frequencies , which can be picked up by the aircraft radios . The static sparks will cause noise on the aircraft radios , sometimes a <URL> . Aircraft use <URL> on trailing edges to allow the charge to equalize . If components are electrically bonded well , static electricity should not be noticeable , other than under <URL> . The wicks are fixed and not telescopic but of course can be removed if replacement is needed .
Because the third engine would need to be near on centerline . That means in the tail . Putting the engine in the tail significantly changes its design requirements . Supporting an engine requires a lot of structural support . Then you need to run fuel to it . The effective height of the rudder is decreased . You probably need to switch over to a T-tail . The center of mass is also shifted which influences where the wings need to go . In short , adding a single engine requires a redesign of the entire tail . While adding an engine to the wings is much simpler .
Often times fuel injected engines can be difficult to start with the mixture rich , particularly if run recently and still hot . Following a priming procedure with the electric boost pump then cranking with the mixture at idle cutoff allows the engine to flush out fuel from the injector manifold until an optimal fuel air mixture is reached and the engine starts up . Quickly moving the mixture to full rich at this point will stabilize the engine at idle with an appropriate throttle setting .
For one , do n't only look at the engine , but at the whole propulsion system . This includes tanks , piping , controls , pumps and the actual engine . Now the rocket looks much less favorable , especially if you size the tanks for equal running times . The rocket does not need any of the parts which are ahead of the combustion chamber of a jet and also does not need the turbine . Also , being designed for full thrust only , it does not need an adjustable nozzle . Please look below at the engine installation of a typical airliner ( I tried but could not find a fitting cross section of a turbojet plus intake ) : <URL> Jet engine and nacelle cutaway drawing ( picture <URL> ) Only the part labeled " combustor " and the section aft of the turbine are actually comparable to a rocket engine - all else is needed to condition and compress air or drive the turbo machinery in front . A rocket enjoys the luxury of being fed propellant and oxidizer at just the right ratio , condition and at high pressure , and since the oxidizer is mostly pure liquid oxygen , the turbo pumps for compressing it can be much smaller than the turbo machinery of a jet which works with an 80 % nitrogen - 20 % oxygen mixture of gasses .
Since they were not suited for combat , they transitioned to supporting clandestine operations where , to quote the <URL> , To give it the long range it needed , the aircraft had to be lightened by removing all unnecessary equipment such as guns , armour protection and excess radio equipment , retaining only the radio/telephone for communication with the ground . It appears that they did have radios , not sure about how they were used . But if you look at the video in the linked page at about 2:33 the pilot appears to be wearing a helmet with built-in headset and a face-mask type microphone . At 6:19 the rear crewmember looks like he is wearing a mask as well . This is the same aircraft that features prominently in Code Name Verity by Elizabeth E. Wein .
<URL> has a great post today about <URL> . There are a few basic reasons . Reliability Having two sparks plugs is more reliable . If one spark plug becomes inoperative for some reason , there 's a second to provide the spark for the power stroke . It should also be noted that the spark plugs are usually powered by dual , independent magnetos or , in some cases , an electronic capacitor discharge ignition . The redundancy of the ignition system adds to the reliability . More Power Having two spark plugs means the flame ignites from two points leading to more power per power stroke . This point is demonstrated during run-up . When the magneto check is done the engine RPMs drop when running on a single mag and set of spark plugs . Even Combustion Two sparks plugs and a two flame front leads to a more even burn of the fuel air mixture for a smoother running engine . Prevent Fouling Aircraft engines burn leaded fuel which can lead to getting lead deposits on the spark plugs . Having dual plugs leads to a more complete burn which can prevent the deposits from forming .
All multi-engine airplanes , whether jet or prop driven have separate throttle controls for each engine . There are good reasons for this : If there is a problem with one engine you can separately control it for troubleshooting purposes If one engine is n't developing the right amount of power you can independently increase the other engine ( s ) to compensate If you have a control failure of some kind you can use differential thrust to steer the airplane , this has been done more than once , the example that comes immediately to mind is <URL>
end question
start question
Manufacturers are narrowing seats . Any possibilities for price cut ?
You will likely not see a price cut , but you also might not see a price increase . Seat pricing ( along with just about any other service in a competitive market ) is a complex function of actual cost to the company + desired profit + market factor . The last one is the difference between what they want to get and what the market is willing to pay . It is sometimes negative .
All wings warp . The extent of warping is one restriction which limits the fast side of the <URL> . Once aircraft designers realized that thick wings have less drag , they tried to build their wings as stiff as possible . Stiff wings allow to use airfoils with rear loading , will have <URL> and keep their shape even when operating at high dynamic pressure . Since the center of pressure moves chordwise on cambered airfoils depending on the angle of attack , any cambered wing will suffer from pitching moments around its axis of elasticity . This moment will <URL> and change the incidence of the outer wing sections . A stiff wing will suffer less twisting and stay closer to its ideal aerodynamic shape . Add an aileron , and another twisting moment is added on top . Now the wing twists opposite to the aileron deflection ! This can become so bad that most of the aileron 's effectiveness is lost as the wing is warped in a way which counteracts the lift change of the aileron . The <URL> uses this effect with an array of leading and trailing edge devices to actively warp the wing in the desired direction . Using computer-controlled deflections of small but very effective control surfaces , it creates a desired deformation of the wing for roll control . This can be compared to the effect a <URL> has on an aileron . The Flettner tab is a small control surface at the trailing edge of a larger control surface and is deflected by the pilot such that it moves the big control surface in opposite direction . It slightly reduces the effectiveness of the big control surface , but needs only a fraction of the stick force , thus helping to manually control big aircraft . Since the active wing warping of the X-53 depends on the proper functioning of the FCS and an array of movable devices , each with its own failure mode , I would hesitate to see this as a clear advantage . It allows , however , to control the aircraft at high dynamic pressure with minimal drag penalties .
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
<URL> provides some direction . CAT.OP.MPA .165 Passenger seating The operator shall establish procedures to ensure that passengers are seated where , in the event that an emergency evacuation is required , they are able to assist and not hinder evacuation of the aircraft . Further clarification can be found from <URL> . AMC2 CAT.OP.MPA .165 Passenger seating ACCESS TO EMERGENCY EXITS The following categories of passengers are among those who should not be allocated to , or directed to , seats that permit direct access to emergency exits : ( a ) passengers suffering from obvious physical or mental disability to the extent that they would have difficulty in moving quickly if asked to do so ; ( b ) passengers who are either substantially blind or substantially deaf to the extent that they might not readily assimilate printed or verbal instructions given ; ( c ) passengers who because of age or sickness are so frail that they have difficulty in moving quickly ; ( d ) passengers who are so obese that they would have difficulty in moving quickly or reaching and passing through the adjacent emergency exit ; ( e ) children ( whether accompanied or not ) and infants ; ( f ) deportees , inadmissible passengers or persons in custody ; and ( g ) passengers with animals . Whether or not a person can sit in the emergency exit row may also depend on if the specific seat is designated as an emergency exit . For example , on narrow body aircraft , generally all seats in the emergency exit row are considered emergency exit seats and only persons who " able to assist " can sit in those locations . However , on some wide body aircraft , only seats on the window sides are considered emergency exit seats . On an aircraft with a 2-3-2 configuration , the 3 seats in the middle are not considered exit row seats and therefore do not have any further safety requirements .
Is there any aircraft designed to perform its mission into this 30km wide slice of atmosphere ? ( between 50km and 80km ) - apart from some experimental rocket planes and so on , I ca n't think of any . The main problem is there 's so little air - very little opportunity to generate lift , and very little air to run a jet engine . In theory it should be possible for a winged aircraft to fly up there ( it is below the <URL> ) but the engineering difficulties would seem to make this impractical . For more detail I 'd recommend the top answer for this question : <URL> What is the usefulness of this slice for aviation ? If it were possible , it would be useful for futuristic or military things like : spy planes like the SR-71 but higher and faster super-fast suborbital transport passing through on getting into orbit - <URL> vehicles for example . ( All of these examples are pipe dreams at the moment of course . )
Some airlines do offer rear facing seats in business/first class . However , this is more to save space than for increasing safety . For example , British Airways offers a mix of forward and backward facing seats in its business class . <URL> Source : Forbes.com BAC <URL> offered rear-facing seats while it was in service . ( Note the visible cockpit ) . <URL> Source : airliners.net Armed forces of a number of countries use rear facing seats , like the RAF and USN in their C-2 Greyhounds . <URL> " <URL> " by Camera Operator : PH1 ( AW ) Shawn P. Eklund , USN - US Defense Visual Information Center photo DN-SD-03-16988 . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> .
it is being claimed by the Airbus that their new planes offer more sound proofing than those of Boeing I guess you mean <URL> : No matter where they sit , all passengers benefit from the quiet A380 cabin with on average half the sound energy of other aircraft . Passengers ' feedback confirms the extraordinary contribution to their general well-being due to the absence of background noise on the A380 . In market research surveys the A320 is regularly rated higher than its rivals for the low level of noise in its cabin . Effective insulation in the cabin is one reason why passengers say they find the A320 a quiet aircraft in which to fly . The A320 cabin is the subject of continuous improvements and in its latest version , the noise has been reduced by a further 1dB . how do Airplane manufacturers tackle the problem of soundproofing the cabin There are a variety of methods soundproofing materials in the wall of the fuselage between inner and outer skins . choice of interior materials and furnishings etc. . adjusting cabin interior contours to allow lower airflow velocity . fuselage aerodynamics . engine nacelle accoustic liners . scalloped edges on engine exhaust nozzle . larger slower engine fans . sharklets . etc BBC <URL> One of the main sources of noise is wind . So during the design phase of modern aircraft , computational tools model the aerodynamics of the aeroplane to highlight areas of high airflow that are likely to increase cabin noise . This allows engineers to reshape their designs , says Alan Pardoe , director of product marketing at Airbus . Such techniques , he says , helped the double-decker Airbus A380 plane to be recognised by the UK Noise Abatement Society as the quietest jet airliner on the market . Airbus <URL> When it comes to making the A380 one of the quietest aircraft in the sky , it 's the small details that count ... in fact , more than 3 million of them ! This is the number of tiny perforations in acoustic linings on the large nacelles that surround and protect the A380 's jet engines . The acoustic material helps dampen noise created by the airliner 's four turbofan powerplants , ensuring the A380 is a friendly neighbour wherever it operates in the world . The A380 's nacelles are supplied by Aircelle , which has worked closely with Airbus in minimising the jetliner 's noise output during takeoff and landing . Acoustic panels are applied throughout the engine -- from the air inlet to the exhaust nozzle . Each panel , which is produced from composite material or titanium , is designed to attenuate noise at different frequencies , further improving the soundproofing effect . Noise-reducing innovations include Aircelle 's 2-degree-of-freedom acoustic panels , which use a stack of two honeycomb composite sandwich layers separated by a porous wall . These panels dampen high-frequency noise from the engine turbines . With much of this noise source successfully dampened by the acoustic treatment , engineers and designers are now focusing their attention on treating other sources of aircraft noise , promising even quieter jetliners for the future . and <URL> The Airbus-developed Zero-Splice engine nacelle liner was designed to reduce the noise generated by the jet engines ' large fan , which represents almost half the noise during both approach and take-off . Following extensive studies carried out by Airbus on how to reduce fan noise , it was found that splices used to join the engine nacelle inlet 's acoustic panels generated forward fan noise -- which was counter-efficient to the liner 's acoustic treatment . Airbus therefore developed the Zero-Splice nacelle liner as a single 360 deg . piece of composite , which is comparable in size to the diameter of an A320 fuselage . It is , I think , obvious that measures that reduce engine noise on the ground also reduce it in the cabin . They also write about how wing sharklets reduce noise . I 'd guess there are many other measures and design choices that are introduced to reduce noise . What proportion of the total aircraft development cost ... I 'd be surprised if Airbus or Boeing make public any breakdown of their development costs . You can find general breakdowns like the following but I havent found any that break out soundproofing development costs . <URL>
During testing , the rear fuselage is protected by a beam made of oak or even steel to distribute the tail strike loads and to protect the aircraft skin . A340 during tail strike tests . This one is literally blazing along the runway ... For normal operations , the protection is removed . However , tail strikes must not cause flight-critical damage , so a few precautions are taken during design : No hydraulic or electrical lines must run along the bottom of the rear fuselage . If there are still mechanical control elements like pushrods , they and their collapsing supports must not be close to the bottom of the fuselage . The tail strike location must be outside of the pressurized part of the fuselage . The main protection against tail strikes , however , is procedural : The <URL> to allow lift-off before a critical pitch attitude is reached . Delta wing aircraft are much easier to over-rotate , so the Concorde used a retractable tailwheel for tail strike protection :
The different airspeeds : IAS is indicated airpseed CAS is calibrated airspeed EAS is equivalent airspeed TAS is true airspeed CAS is IAS corrected for instrumentation and position errors . The errors are most pronounced in slow and high angle-of-attack flight . IAS figures in aircraft manuals are actually converted from CAS . For ease of use . <URL> ( Wikipedia link ) . <URL> However , a modern plane with an <URL> ( ADC ) actually displays CAS , despite being labelled as IAS . Below 200 knots and 10,000 feet , for all purposes , CAS equals EAS . As the plane goes faster and higher and compresses the air , the air changes density , an effect known as compressibility that affects the CAS reading . <URL> EAS is computed by the ADC on a modern fast plane , and together with the density altitude , the TAS is then known . Ground speed and track ( from GPS , navaids , and/or INS ) together with the TAS allows the <URL> to calculate and display the wind speed/direction . Before ADC 's , pilots used charts like those in the answer . Summary : In a modern plane , what the pilot actually uses is CAS , despite being labelled IAS . And EAS is used in computing the TAS by the ADC . For engineers , TAS ( actual velocity through the air ) is used in lift equations , EAS is used in calculating dynamic pressures on the plane ( TAS corrected for air density ) . Source used and a must read : <URL>
Best is to contact your FAA regional office as the details of the procedures seem to vary a bit depending on your region , and the use of the airport . <URL> gives guidance the lighting and lighting of obstructions that may affect the airspace . The first paragraph reads : A sponsor proposing any type of construction or alteration of a structure that may affect the National Airspace System ( NAS ) is required under the provisions of Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations ( 14 CFR part 77 ) to notify the FAA by completing the Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration form ( FAA Form 7460-1 ) . The form should be sent to the Obstruction Evaluation service ( OES ) . Copies of FAA Form 7460-1 may be obtained from OES , Airports District Office or FAA Website at <URL> . More information can be found here <URL> . The reporting requirements are laid down in <URL>
No , it does not . ATC can specify a restriction to the deviation , especially in a non-radar environment where they ca n't keep an eye on you . The only thing that frees ATC of separation responsibilities between two IFR ( or IFR/VFR depending on airspace ) aircraft is if one them reports the other in sight , and is issued an " maintain visual separation " . After that the responsibility of not hitting the other aircraft , or its wake , rests solely with the pilot in command .
According to <URL> they used to be very customizable , but not very much interchangeable at least to the point that no one bothered to change them on second-hand aircraft . They are reducing it because it only causes confusion . Aircraft change owners and pilots change employers and it 's most useful if all aircraft of the same type have the same cockpit layout . As far as 787 goes , it has very similar flight deck to 777 , always , to the point it has <URL> .
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
For go-around , several things have to be done in the moment the decision is taken : Apply full power ( obviously ) , disconnect autopilot glide-slope mode , disarm spoilers and retract them if they are extended , disarm autobrakes and in some aircraft reduce flaps . Modern airliners , and some smaller aircraft , have a method for doing all of these at once via the <URL> . On Airbus aircraft it is done by just advancing the thrust levers to the TO/GA ( full power ) position , but on Boeing aircraft and many other types it is a separate button on or near the thrust levers . So if the crew " apparently decided to undertake this procedure manually " it means they moved the thrust levers forward and started changing the other things . And probably missed one of them . Notes : I am not sure whether lateral mode remains under automatic control or not and it probably depends on aircraft as some can connect autopilot to only roll or only pitch and others do n't . Pitch control is manual immediately after go-around in either case . The last flap setting usually adds a lot of drag and a little lift . In some types the drag is too large and the flaps have to be retracted to the last usable position . On other aircraft they can be used in any position and have to be left were they were to avoid loosing lift .
A supercritical airfoil has these characteristics : Large leading edge radius Comparably flat upper surface Rounded lower surface with a maximum thickness location at around 50 % Flat or even negative camber in the forward section High positive camber in the rear section ( rear loading ) The large leading edge radius allows it to create more lift than comparable airfoils at high angle of attack . After <URL> re-invented <URL> ( they had first be developed by K. A. Kawalki in Germany in 1940 , and British airfoil research resulted in similar shapes , first used in the <URL> ) , he transferred some of their characteristics to a GA airfoil , the <URL> . From the <URL> : The unusual airfoil unexpectedly aided general aviation as well ; its rather blunt leading edge allowed it to generate high lift coefficients before stalling , and Whitcomb published a low-speed airfoil which he called GA ( W ) -1 ; it is now routinely used in light aircraft and gliders . As usual , Wikipedia is mostly correct , but the use of the GA ( W ) -1 on gliders is everything but routine . This gives an indication of their drawbacks : The low forward camber limits the range of the laminar bucket to lower lift coefficients . A <URL> tries to maintain the laminar bucket almost up to stall . A positive camber throughout will produce higher maximum lift coefficients than what a supercritical airfoil is capable of . That is why the GA ( W ) -1 uses only the blunt nose and the rear loading , but not the camber distribution of supercritical airfoils . The high rear loading gives them a large , negative pitch coefficient which translates into a larger travel of the center of pressure over angle of attack , requiring a larger horizontal tail . In airliners this does not matter because their large flaps dictate the size of the tail .
I cross that pass on my commute twice a week in my VariEze at altitudes between 5500 and 11500 ft depending on winds and clouds . There 's nothing to be particularly nervous about , there 's rarely any noticeable turbulence if you 're at 7500 or higher . You can check the Sandberg AWOS and forecast winds aloft , and ask L.A. Center or Bakersfield Approach for ride reports . I do tend to be flying that route either fairly early in the morning or around dusk , so it may be bumpy more often in the heat of the early afternoon . If clouds are forcing you down to 5500 be sure not to accidentally fly up the wrong valley when headed north !
There are certainly a large number of incidents/accidents in military jets involving rudders . I 've listed a few cases , not necessarily in takeoff/landing . A Block 25 F-16C suffered structural failure during flutter tests with the AMRAAM missile . The rudder delaminated and tore off , and the pilot managed to land the aircraft . <URL> Source : f-16 . net B-52 vertical stabilizers were prone to failure during operation at low altitudes . While under testing , a B-52H suffered catastrophic failure of vertical stabilizer . The pilots managed to land the aircraft with help from Boeing test engineers . <URL> " <URL> " by United States Air Force - USAF . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . However , in other <URL> , the same failure caused fatal crashes . A USAF investigation blamed <URL> for the loss of an F-15 near Hawaii in 2008 . The investigation concluded that most probably both rudders in the jet failed due to failure of the aileron-rudder interconnect . F-14 suffered from rudder hardover <URL> , one of which lead to loss of the aircraft . <URL> found the reason was due to mechanical failure of a stop plate attached to the hydraulic actuator .
There 's seldom a reason for manufacturers to design and build their own black boxes . It 's expensive to run a production line to design , build a test a few . It 's just cheaper to get an agreement with a company to make them for you . The second photo below shows a popular recurring model from Honeywell , which appears to have been used on the A330 , B737 and B777 . Opening the black box can be a sensitive operation , especially if there 's the fear that the chips might have been damaged . It 's better to send it to somebody who 's done it before rather than trying to master it on the first attempt , especially if you do n't have the resources . Airplanes accidents do n't happen very often . Note that the case you 're referring to , the Aircraft also appears to have been built by Airbus in Hamburg , and hence the <URL> automatically gets involved as well , much like how the NTSB gets involved in all Boeing crashes . <URL> A smashed up flight data recorder . <URL> A photo from the NTSB with the Asiana flight 214 recorders Another reason for this is if there might be political motives behind the crash , it 's preferred to send it to a third party for analysis which is less susceptible to bias or interference . If I gather correctly , data on the flight data recorder wo n't be encrypted at all - it will be fed out as serial data , but you will need the devices and software to understand this information , and if the outside connection is broken , you 'll need to work your way to the chips themselves . <URL> Photo showing apparently how black box are ' read ' . Furthermore , sending it to the company is not always a good idea - they might have motives to change the truth , especially if it was caused by dodgy maintenance or bad training , nor to the manufacturer , if it was production error . The accident investigation board is the best people for this matter .
<URL> provides cloud tops for weather with precipitation . Cloud tops with no precip can be discerned from data provided in the Skew-t log ℗ charts that are part of this app <URL> Where the temperature and dew point on the skew-t charts are converged you can expect clouds . If the convergence extends into the freezing level indicated on the chart you can expect icing .
You are absolutely correct , <URL> . But tradition and a subjective feeling of being treated better means that people will prefer to be seated facing forward . Some even claim that they develop motion sickness when sitting backwards . This can indeed be the case for some people in trains with their big windows , but much less so in aircraft . Just note which seats will be occupied last in a train with lounge/mixed seating . In order to cram the highest number of passengers into their planes , the airlines would need to convert all seats to the backward orientation , and you can be sure there will be some passengers who will complain . If passenger safety would be important to them , airlines could already use better seatbelts , like the 5-point-harnesses used in gliders and aerobatics planes , but they all use the minimum lap belt which is mandated and nothing more . Convenience and cost always win over safety . Now I need to mention two caveats : If passengers should be seated backwards , the industry needs to develop new seats . It will not be helpful to turn existing seats around - they would collapse at much lower loads than what a backward-sitting human can sustain . However , to fully support these higher loads , seats will be more heavy and possibly even the floor structure needs to be beefed up . Backward-facing seating will only help in the fraction of cases where deceleration loads are too high for a forward-facing person , but low enough to make the crash survivable . If the plane flies into a mountain or ditches and sinks before people get out , the better seating will not help . Some military transports have backward-facing seats . In some crashes , the survivability rate was seven times higher in those than in forward-facing seats . Early air travel also used mixed seating , e.g. on the Zeppelins or the <URL> . One airline to use mixed seating was Southwest Airlines with their <URL> , and business jets have mixed seating as standard . Thanks to @reirab for pointing out that United Business class also has some backward-facing seats . Cabin of the Do-X . No seatbelts , seats not bolted to the floor . These were the days ... Cabin of the Dassault Falcon 7X business jet .
end question
start question
How many pilots do long flights need ?
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
The two configurations of <URL> have different capacity . A350-900 : 138,000 liters / 36,456 US gallons A350-1000 : 156,000 liters / 41,212 US gallons The tanks are shown in this picture : <URL> <URL>
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
If fuel contamination is suspected ( because of engine control system fault indications , slow engine responses or rapid engine pressure ratio ( EPR ) fluctuations ) , there is an associated checklist procedure to followed which can confirm the contamination : Fuel contamination checklist as posted by " 330 skipper " at Nov 24th 2017 13:47 Z <URL> : If ENG 1 ( 2 ) CTL SYS FAULT alert triggered associated with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE , and with rapid and continuous EPR fluctuation indications on both engines : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... OFF If EPR fluctuations stop on both engines : ECAM PROC ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... APPLY A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... KEEP OFF If EPR fluctuations continue on both engines : FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If ENG 1 CTL SYS FAULT and ENG 2 CTL SYS FAULT alerts triggered with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . OFF FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If fuel contamination confirmed : LAND ASAP <URL> In addition , the Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) has the following procedure to be followed if fuel contamination is confirmed : <URL> Special thanks to <URL> for providing the images of the procedure and the FCOM
According to the <URL> , as of December 31 , 2016 , there are : 584,361 Active pilots ( 39,187 are Women pilots , or about 7 % ) 104,382 Flight Instructors ( 6,848 are Women Flight Instructors , or about 7 % ) The ratio of female instructors to female active pilots is virtually the same as for males . <URL>
Guiding is called <URL> and can be requested . A follow-me car can also be used to guide the plane . In some airports the follow-me car is <URL> , as well as its fees . By Frank Schwichtenberg ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> In most cases the pilots use charts . Either paper or electronic . Some electronic charts offer a moving map feature , whereby the crew can see their position on the map . Lastly , there 's the new follow-the-greens ( <URL> ) method , in which the ATC programs the taxi route and the crew are then guided by smart green lights . Follow-the-greens cockpit video / ATC audio in Singapore Changi can be <URL> . In all cases , except for follow-the-greens , the route is given . Runway [ number ] , taxi via [ route ] . ( USA . ) Taxi to holding point [ number ] runway [ number ] via [ route ] . ( Europe and elsewhere . ) It 's worth mentioning that the taxiways are marked by <URL> as well . By Bin im Garten ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL>
Well , your scenario is a bit unlikely because if the aircraft did ditch in the ocean they would have the emergency rafts and slides to take cover in instead of " floating around in their inflatable vests " . However , if someone were floating in the ocean without any protection , how long they could survive depends on various factors . Temperature is the biggest factor in the amount of time before they would succumb to hypothermia . Take a look at <URL> to figure out the average temperature of the area in question . If we go by the <URL> , that is going to be somewhere in the neighborhood of 14C . <URL> says that the Expected Time of Survival is 1 to 6 hours . The same page also says : Maximize your chances of surviving by : Wearing a personal flotation device ( PFD ) Adopting a survival position Keeping clothing on Getting as much of body out of the water as possible Remaining still and in place UNLESS a floating object , another person , or the shore is nearby Keeping a positive mental outlook ( a will to survive really does matter ) Swimming is n't recommended unless there is little chance of being rescued and shore is less than a mile away . Putting on a PFD after falling into cold water is almost impossible -- SO WEAR IT . If you find yourself in cold water without a PFD and nothing to climb onto , tread water . Traditional drown-proofing by repeatedly lowering your head into the water and floating speeds up heat loss . Lots more information is available on that page !
There 's no instrument you need for a good approach angle in good weather , it 's all done by eye . When you train as a pilot you develop a sight picture of what a good approach looks like , and you develop a sense of what a runway looks like when you get too low or too high . It comes from experience and practice combining with the human brain 's excellent spatial processing capabilities .
I 've heard that airliners ' tires will last about 200-250 depending on how many hard landings are made . Bizjet tires will last longer , and light aircraft tires will last indefinitely , depending on how gentle you are and what kind of surface you 're landing on . I had one start cracking around the wall and just looking unsafe long before the treads ever started to wear . As for the spin-up idea , it 's been proposed many many times , but generally always rejected due to weight and maintenance costs . However , now that fuel is by far the main expense in an airliner 's trip , companies are looking for any way to reduce fuel burn . As it turns out , taxiing an airliner burns quite a bit of fuel . They 've already started turning one engine off for long taxis , and I think that electric wheel motors will be the next big thing . The motors have gotten light enough and strong enough that they are a now a viable option . They can be powered by the APU or by a set of batteries ( which are also now becoming light enough , see the 787 when they get the kinks worked out ) . So when they get around to putting them on aircraft for taxiing purposes , you can bet that they 'll be spun-up right before landing .
Most airplanes have a POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) with a table on aircraft distances . <URL> .
This varies due to operational need and airline standard operating procedures . On my aircraft ( an <URL> ) we turn on the APU roughly ten minutes prior to pushback and shut it down shortly after starting the engines . If we plan on taxiing on one engine we will shut it down after the first engine start and perform a cross-bleed start on the second engine . Other operators leave the APU running for second engine start . If performance requirements demand the engine bleed to be off for takeoff we will leave the APU on until after takeoff to provide cabin pressurization until the engine bleeds come back online . We typically leave the APU off for the remainder of the flight and do not turn it back on until the next flight , unless ground power is unavailable or unreliable at the destination , in which case we will turn it on after landing as we approach the gate . The APU can also be left on ( or started in flight ) to assist with various abnormal or emergency situations where bleed air or electrical power generation might be needed . Each APU installation will have a different flight envelope in which it can be started / used and is specified in the aircraft 's operational limitations .
No , but a hat to protect the head from the sun . You may call this the glider pilot 's headset ;-) <URL> Glider pilot with hat ( picture <URL> ) The flight noise is just a faint hissing sound , and the most noise is either produced by the electrical variometer or the radio . On a busy day and with everyone on the same frequency , I often switched the radio silent when high up . When you receive transmissions from tens of kilometers away , you often receive parallel transmissions , which result in a very loud and annoying crackling in the radio .
<URL> , Appendix B lists violations and the civil penalties ( fines ) and certificate actions which are to be imposed by the FAA . The rest of the document also discusses how investigations of certain violations are undertaken and thresholds . That order gives much more detail than you 'd ever want to know . A common theme is revocation is called for when the action is intentional . These are what are the FAA initially charges you with , so they are higher than what actually happens . A certificate action is either negotiated as a settlement , or if it ca n't , it goes before an administrative law judge , then <URL> , then appealed to the Federal court system .
At a large airport , all aircraft movements are coordinated by the ATC tower on the ground frequency . Aircraft should never move without authorization from the controller . The tower will issue instructions to aircraft that might look something like this : Taxi to Gate 1 via Alpha , Alpha 1 , Lima 3 , cross runway 24 , hold short Delta . These names correspond to markings on the ground that match up with the airport taxiing maps . By talking with the pilots , the controllers are able to build up a map of where aircraft are . It also helps that they can look out the window and see the aircraft on the ground . At airports without a tower , taxiing is n't much of an issue . There are n't many planes around , and there 's generally only one runway and not many taxiways . Nevertheless , aircraft taxiing when there is no ground controller comply with " see and be seen " by looking outside and turning on aircraft lights . Furthermore , if the aircraft has a radio , it should self-announce its movements on the ground .
The night currency requirements are in <URL> , which does provide exceptions for pilots flying for an air carrier : Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers [ at night ] 61.57 ( e ) ( 2 ) has this exception for part 121 : ( 2 ) This section does not apply to a pilot in command who is employed by a part 119 certificate holder authorized to conduct operations under part 121 when the pilot is engaged in a flight operation under part 91 or 121 for that certificate holder if the pilot in command complies with § § 121.436 and 121.439 of this chapter . <URL> has general PIC requirements for part 121 , and <URL> has recency requirements , which are 3 takeoffs and landings in the last 90 days in the same aircraft type , or an equivalent simulator . So part 121 pilots need three takeoffs and landings in type in the last 90 days , with no specific requirement for them to be at night . That 's all based on just reading the regulations , someone who 's actually been there and done that could probably add some more information .
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
In personal experience , I often look for a step ladder to inspect ground inaccessible engines and control surfaces and I have seen others look at their aircraft from a second story window . My personal practice is to walk around the aircraft prior to every flight , not just at the first flight of the day , but I often had to make time for that . It may not be common practice . But that is an aside . Here 's the reality . If you are talking about the walk-around that the pilot or flight engineer might do , there are not up close inspections of the elevated engines and control surfaces . The walk-around will look for leaking oil , missing $ 1500 fasteners or whatever , but one is not checking the dipstick prior to engine start . How are things inspected ? The manufacturer factors that into the design . From an operational standpoint , the pilot ( s ) , FE will look at performance during engine start , and make sure that the profile does not deviate from the expected temps , flow , etc. . In summary , if you ca n't get to it , it is not likely on the walk-around checklist .
You presume that they flew back the very same day ... but that is an incorrect presumption . For long flights over about 8 hours , strict rest limits apply so they can not fly again for 8-10 hours at a bare minimum . Typically , a crew from a long-haul flight will stay in a hotel in the destination city for anywhere from 12 to 48 hours , depending on the flight length , timezone changes , airline schedules , union contracts , and so on . Yes the hotels and travel bonuses costs the airline a pretty penny but that 's the cost of doing business . So at this very moment there will be 1 or maybe 2 LX crews , resting ( or touristing ... ) in San Francisco , waiting to fly a return service . For more information you can google or ask a new question on Fatigue Risk Management Systems .
According to <URL> , the total length of the horizontal stabilizer on a 737-800 is 47 ft 1 in .
The appropriate rules are in <URL> A licensed pilot may not undertake aerobatic flights unless they hold an Aerobatic Rating 40 Hours of Flight Time ( or 120 launches for sailplanes as PIC ) completed after issue of respective license Aerobatic Training course including theoretical knowledge and 5 hours or 20 flights Aerobatics must subsequently be flown in same category aircraft as used for rating No revalidation/renewal requirements Be issued a certificate of satisfactory completion of the instruction for the license endorsement So there is no specific license to be obtained , however there is a specific rating , which is just an endorsement in your logbook . Its not clear from the documents that I 've read that formation flying qualifies as aerobatics . Some other countries do n't consider formation flying an aerobatic operation .
end question
start question
How do pilots board the B-1B Lancer ?
The crew of <URL> ( 4 in total ) enter or exit the cockpit from the underside , using a ladder . It can be seen in <URL> . This picture shows the ladder ( the one on the right ) : <URL> On the top of the ladder , there is a door , which looks like this : <URL>
Yes they do , and <URL> they 're better than paper ones . All sorts of aircraft can have electronic checklists , from large airliners to small Cessnas : modern avionics like the G1000 <URL> and the older but very common GNS430 <URL> . In the US at least there 's no legal requirement to use checklists in any form - electronic or paper - with some caveats : They 're considered a fundamental best practice in aviation , so if you do n't use them then someone could argue that you 're acting <URL> Incorrect - especially missing or incomplete - checklist use <URL> ( see <URL> too ) so clearly it 's in your own best interests to use them properly If you 're flying for an airline then your <URL> probably requires use of checklists , in which case they 're mandatory As for mobile devices , there are already many <URL> and <URL> that support <URL> . In some cases the app provides a template for a specific aircraft type , in others you have to enter it all yourself . There may be some copyright considerations , but third-party checklists are <URL> so obviously it is n't a huge issue . Finally , it 's worth noting that many pilots - especially those who own their own aircraft - <URL> for their own needs .
Short answer : Sleep aids can not be used this way in the US . FAA regulates the use of such medications with a delay : <URL> : <URL> More on medication advice to medical examiners : <URL> . Only the <URL> ( a <URL> <URL> ) could be used in a practical manner ( not publicly available in France nor likely in many other countries ) . Circadian rhythm What you are referring to has got the scientific name of circadian rhythm ( circa = around , diēs = day ) , which is the subject of an article at SkyBrary : <URL> . About the night flights : Night operations create a host of problems for flight crews . The primary problem is having to work efficiently and safely at a point in time when the work requirements are not in synchrony with circadian rhythms . Under worst-case conditions , crew members must perform demanding tasks during the early morning hours ( 2 am to 6 am ) when their biological functions and performance efficiency are at their lowest level . This problem can not be quickly solved by adaptation of the biological clock . Complete adjustment to night work requires at least 21 night shifts in a row with no days off . Adjustment of the biological clock does not even commence until about 10 days after a shift change . Fatigue Long article about <URL> , about zaleplon : This misalignment of the sleep/wake cycle and endogenous circadian rhythms could be the result of shift lag , jet lag , or attempting sleep at other than the habitual bedtime or at the second circadian dip in the afternoon . For such circumstances , the U.S. Air Force and Army have approved the limited use of temazepam , zolpidem , and zaleplon . These hypnotics can optimize the quality of crew rest in circumstances where sleep is possible , but difficult to obtain . Inflight rest As additional information about sleep management inflight : On a 8-hour flight , usually there will be 3 pilots , and each one will be able to sleep ( outside the flight deck ) . Air France <URL> . Air Canada <URL> <URL>
Once you 've lined up nicely on the runway , you only need the rudder pedals as they do provide enough nose gear steering for the takeoff roll even at low speed . Rudder pedal steering is available during takeoff , landing , and taxiing when small directional changes are required . Full deflection of the rudder pedals produces about 7 degrees of nose wheel steering . -- <URL> The 7 degrees figure quoted above will vary by plane . Tiller is used when tight turns are needed . Remember most airliners do n't have a tiller on the first officer 's side , yet they do takeoff without the captain steering for them . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the linked video we see the captain let go of the tiller as soon as he is lined up on the runway . Also notice the tiller move on its own afterward , which indicates that the rudder pedal [ nose wheel ] steering is being used .
Go to the toilet before departure , and hope you can find somewhere to land if nature calls suddenly :) Same really as before a long car journey today ... Of course aircraft of that time did n't have very long endurance , so the situation was n't likely to arise that you 'd need to make a pit stop to let nature take its course . You 'd have a scheduled stop anyway well before that .
The FAA provides an <URL> I would say it falls under " aviation concern " . In your description if you include tail number and time they should be able to figure out who was flying ( or in the cockpit if its a 2 man situation ) . You can also contact your <URL> and report the tail number and time of incident . Aircraft owners/renters ( the people the tail number will trace back to ) will more than likely know who was flying a given tail number at a certain time so as long as you know when it happened you should be ok its not necessarily on you to know who was flying but the tail number and incident time is key .
Yes , squawk codes are still used and required with ADS-B . It 's possible that in the future this may change , but because of the bifurcated implementation the FAA has chosen for ADS-B I do n't think it 's likely . ADS-B operates by giving additional information beyond the Mode A ( squawk ) code - this is either encoded on the 1090MHz transponder frequency ( Mode S " Extended Squitter " - what most of the world uses ) or sent on a separate frequency ( the 987MHz " Universal Access Transceiver " frequency , which is a US/FAA only thing mainly intended for light GA aircraft ) . The Mode S and Extended Squitter data includes things like the aircraft 's unique Mode S address ( a 24-bit number assigned to the aircraft by its national registry , in the US this is linked to the N number ) , and may also provide the tail number or flight number . The ATC radar system will accept and display this information for the controller . At the moment the Mode S/ES data is not used as a substitute for the Mode A transponder code , but because Mode S data is coming through the ATC secondary radar system it 's all immediately available with the secondary radar return the same way a Mode A squawk code is , and it 's possible that the FAA may use the Mode S ID in place of the Mode A squawk code for these aircraft in the future . The 987MHz UAT transmissions also include the Mode S address ( because it 's a useful unique identifier for a given aircraft ) and flight ID/tail number can be sent as well . Information from UAT transmitters is received through separate ground stations and recombined with the radar return in the ATC radar back-end . There 's some magic to that recombining which is out of my depth , but my limited understanding is that since the UAT data is n't directly correlated with a radar return squawk codes are part of how the two are matched up ( the radar computer knows your N number by your discrete squawk code , the UAT ground station knows it from your Mode S ID - if they match and the position data is within reason the ADS-B information can be associated with your radar data block ) .
1 ) ADS-B will stop working when the transponder is switched off at the gate after arrival in Tokyo . Airliners use the 1090 MHz Extended Squitter variety of ADS-B which is the worldwide standard . 2 ) I do n't have hard numbers but I guess it is approximately 90 percent of the flights . At most economical cruise flight levels , ADS-C is mandatory . 3 ) ADS-C is a common system . For aircraft not equipped , position reporting of HF is the alternative . And soon space based ADS-B will be available as well .
We were decoding Airborne Position frames having TypeCode , and . Apparently , frames with TypeCode and possibly have to be decode a different way . ( For now I think that I get enough information out of TypeCode frames so I 'll just skip the other ones . )
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
<URL> : McCall 's plane is a demilitarized Douglas A-26 Invader , a type used in WWII . Since the film was made in 1960 , I imagine there were plenty of them around . ( The A-26 was known a the B-26 from 1948 to 1965 , <URL> . The B-25 is easily distinguished because it has the twin tail . )
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
No , but a hat to protect the head from the sun . You may call this the glider pilot 's headset ;-) <URL> Glider pilot with hat ( picture <URL> ) The flight noise is just a faint hissing sound , and the most noise is either produced by the electrical variometer or the radio . On a busy day and with everyone on the same frequency , I often switched the radio silent when high up . When you receive transmissions from tens of kilometers away , you often receive parallel transmissions , which result in a very loud and annoying crackling in the radio .
Crew members each have their own approach to this but in general on the long haul routes , as a pilot you have at least 24h layover , so you can catchup on some sleep , walk outside for a bit ( depending on the local time ) and then sleep some more so you 're fit for the next flight back home . At home you have a couple of days off to recover from the trip . On the very long flights 13h + the pilots are with at least 4 so you can do a quick nap on board as well . As a passenger I cope with the jetlag by looking at the arrival time , do I arrive in the morning I will try to sleep on the plane , will I arrive in the afternoon the I will try to stay awake and go to bed early . By doing so I wake up easily next morning and do not feel jetlagged .
In general , the pilots are required to have good visibility to execute any maneuvers during normal operation of the aircraft . According to <URL> , during non-precipitation conditions , Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any maneuvers within the operating limitations of the airplane , including taxiing takeoff , approach , and landing The FAA advisory Circular 25.773-1 Pilot Compartment View design considerations gives certain guidelines for ensuring pilot visibility . <URL> Pilot compartment view from FAA AC 25.773-1 Pilot Compartment View design considerations The figure shows a pilot compartment view for optimum collision avoidance when seated in the left ( port ) seat . For the starboard side , all left/right dimensions are reversed . Usually , the aircrafts offer better visibility compared to the guidelines . For example , the A330 's visibility ( from <URL> ) is given here . <URL> Image from <URL> The actual visibility of the pilots will vary according to the seat position For example , the following figure shows the variation in pilot visibility in Boeing 727 when seat position is adjusted . <URL> Image from Airplane Design - Layout Design of Cockpit , Fuselage , Wing and Empennage by Jan Roskam Of course , the pilots can see things which is normally not visible though the windows through cameras mounted on the outside , like on top of vertical tail in A380 .
If fuel contamination is suspected ( because of engine control system fault indications , slow engine responses or rapid engine pressure ratio ( EPR ) fluctuations ) , there is an associated checklist procedure to followed which can confirm the contamination : Fuel contamination checklist as posted by " 330 skipper " at Nov 24th 2017 13:47 Z <URL> : If ENG 1 ( 2 ) CTL SYS FAULT alert triggered associated with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE , and with rapid and continuous EPR fluctuation indications on both engines : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... OFF If EPR fluctuations stop on both engines : ECAM PROC ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... APPLY A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... KEEP OFF If EPR fluctuations continue on both engines : FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If ENG 1 CTL SYS FAULT and ENG 2 CTL SYS FAULT alerts triggered with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . OFF FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If fuel contamination confirmed : LAND ASAP <URL> In addition , the Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) has the following procedure to be followed if fuel contamination is confirmed : <URL> Special thanks to <URL> for providing the images of the procedure and the FCOM
The short version is no the Stratus will not meet the requirements , and for several reasons . The final rule requires ADS-B OUT ( and the Stratus is only ADS-B IN ) that meets particular TSO requirements ( see below ) , and portable units will not . The FAA has an <URL> on their website which has a lot of great ADS-B information . The minimum equipment required to meet the mandate is addressed by : What equipment is required by the new rule ? The rule specifies ADS-B Out equipment compliant with either Technical Standard Order ( TSO ) - C154c ( Universal Access Transceiver ) or TSO-C166b ( 1090 ES ) . However , to operate in Class A airspace , aircraft are required to equip with avionics certified to TSO-C166b . The FAQ also specifically addresses the question of portable units and says that they will not be allowed : Will the FAA allow portable/handheld units , or will they have to be panel mounts only ? Installed transponders and GPS units must meet certification standards . Handheld devices and displays that serve only for situational awareness have more flexibility and are not certified installations . In order to comply with 14 CFR § 91.225 and 91.227 aircraft intended to fly in ADS-B airspace must have installed and certified equipment . Portable installations are not compliant to the rule and would only be usable for receiving FIS-B services for situational awareness . The FAA is in the early stages of investigating a portable device for glider aircraft .
Well in regard to " How are these situations resolved ? " you 've already answered your own question in a way : the intended recipient responds with something like <URL> or " Calling center , say again . " ( If they are expecting to hear from a specific aircraft they 'll often respond with " N12345 , say again . " , and if the frequency congestion is really bad controllers may add " All other aircraft standby " ) . As kevin42 pointed out this is very similar to what digital <URL> systems do - they detect a collision ( " Blocked " ) , wait a while , and try their transmission again . As a practical matter , two-way voice communication over the radio is possible , but difficult : for example a discrete " uplink " and " downlink " frequency as you have with some radio systems would be impractical in the sort of mesh topology that you have with aviation radio ( you could implement it for a single air-to-ground pair trivially , but aviation radios are also used for air-to-air communication , and it 's important that pilots hear what 's going on as this enables them to build a mental picture of the airspace , as well as ensure that they 're not blocking other pilot 's transmissions ) . Regarding analog-vs-digital , the traditional AM radio used in aircraft has one major advantage over its digital counterparts : when two digital signals overlap the result is garbage -- you ca n't recover any of the information . When two analog AM signals overlap you get heterodyning ( the two signals mix , and your receiver pipes that mix into your ears ) . The resulting mixed signal sounds AWFUL , there 's an ear-bleeding squeal from the out-of-phase carriers and the voice modulations combine to a garbled mess much of the time , but with experience you can usually pick out one of the communications ( particularly if you 're close to one of the transmitters , where it will overpower the more distant signal ) . The ability to step on a transmission as described above this can be useful : Instructions have been issued over a " stuck mic " before to get other aircraft off the frequency . In a similar vein , if you have an emergency you probably are n't going to listen before you talk - you 're going to key the mic with your mayday and even if the controller misses half of what you 're saying under the heterodyne noise they 'll know there 's an emergency when they hear the other half of your transmission and tell everyone else to standby while they talk to you . In both of those situations a digital system implementing CSMA/CD would detect that the frequency was in use and not transmit ( and if were a digital system and transmitted anyway both digital signals would be garbled and unusable ) .
It is a joint decision of the entire flight crew ( flight crew consists of pilots and cabin crew ) . It is mostly a decision by the most senior flight attendant because it is mostly a cabin issue . The prerequisite is , obviously , the cabin has to be cleaned and prepared . There are " cabin checks " to be carried out when the plane is empty . Typically , each flight attendant will be assigned an area . When everyone reports they 're ready , then boarding can begin . But there are factors from the cockpit that can delay the boarding process too . For example , ATC informs them that takeoff will be delayed for 2 hours . Or a maintenance is being carried out . So , the pilots would always been informed before boarding begins , but in most cases there 'd be no objection .
There are three common ways to send a distress signal ( roughly in order of preference ) : Over the radio , to whoever you are currently talking to . Key the microphone and announce to the world , the flight 's callsign , and a description of the emergency . This is generally the way an emergency is declared , particularly for commercial ( airline ) service , as they 're generally always in contact with an ATC facility Over the radio , to anyone monitoring the " emergency " frequency . The VHF frequency 121.5 MHz is reserved for aircraft emergency communication . It is monitored at most air traffic control facilities , as well as by many airliners and other pilots with multiple radios in their aircraft . If you 're not able to make contact with the facility you 're currently talking to in ( 1 ) above ( or if you 're not currently talking to an ATC facility ) . Using the aircraft 's transponder . Three transponder codes are reserved for unusual/emergency situations : for general emergencies for loss of communication ( radio failure ) for hijacking or other unlawful interference All of these transponder codes alter the way the aircraft 's radar target is displayed , to alert the controller to the possible problem ( exactly how the display is modified depends on the radar equipment the controller has , and can range from additional text in the data block , like ( RaDiO Failure ) for code to changing the color of the displayed block on newer systems . <URL> , and more information is available <URL> , though you 'll have to dig through a few referenced documents to put it all together . Note that sometimes the order of preference changes - For example if a pilot is being threatened by a hijacker they may quietly set their transponder code to 7500 without saying anything on the radio to alert the hijacker .
end question
start question
Where can I find a free/cheap small airplane wing ?
Wings may be tough to come by as they generally last the life of the plane and can be re-skinned/fixed if need be so they are not scrapped all that frequently . You can try a used parts dealer like <URL> or <URL> but they generally deal in air worthy parts which will not be cheap . Here is a guy <URL> he " has wings " , you may want to give him a call and check other part out <URL> adds . Your best bet may be to wonder on down to your local GA field and ask some questions at the FBO or maintenance facility if there is one . Its more than likely someone has a wing or wing section that is no longer air worthy from some accident or the like . You may even just see a junked wing sitting in a field behind a hangar ... STC 's are specific to part or aircraft/engine so testing on a generic wing may not be a good basis ( depending on what you are doing ) you may want to get the wing from the aircraft you intend to STC .
Stall Recovery Similar to the vertical tail on your Cessna , a flying wing produces only little lift or even a downforce over the rear part of its wing . A swept flying wing uses washout for the same effect . In all cases , the idea is to produce relatively more lift increase with an angle of attack increase in the rear parts of the wing ( or the tail in conventional configurations ) so the aircraft stabilizes itself . This also means that the center of lift is ahead of the quarter chord point of the wing , and the same goes for the center of mass . At high angle of attack you need to create a pitch-up moment with the elevons in order to trim the high angle , and once the wing stalls , this pitch-up moment is reduced . As a consequence , the flying wing will pitch down and recover . Again , this is very similar to what happens on your Cessna , only that the function of the tail is performed by the rear part of the wing . Wing sweep helps a lot to pull the aircraft into the wind , and the yaw inertia of the big wing helps to keep rate changes down . Stalling in banking flight produces a very similar reaction as a straight and level stall while the airplane continues to turn . Of course , pulling too hard and preventing the wing from correcting the high angle of attack itself will risk to force the flying wing into a spin . Spin Recovery Flying wings have only a steep spin mode . Flat spins are not possible because the flying wing lacks the <URL> of conventional airplanes which creates a strong pitch-up moment in a spin . If the flying wing has no fuselage protruding in front , it also lacks the stabilizing nose vortices which are a contributing factor for flat spins . Spinning the <URL> was quite harrowing : The nose points almost straight down and the aircraft loses about 100 m in one turn . But ending the spin was simple : Just pitch down and stop the rolling motion by allowing the roll damping of the wing to kick in .
Fuel dumping was regulated by FAA <URL> , which was canceled in 2006 . FAA <URL> regarding fuel dumping : ... If the need arises , aircraft are instructed by Air Traffic Control to dump fuel at high altitudes as far away from the airport or any populated areas as possible . At present , there are no hard and fast rules ( at-least in US , for other countries , see below ) regarding fuel dumping and it is left to the air-traffic controllers to guide the aircraft . The main criteria in determining an are for fuel dumping are : - Altitude In general , fuel jettisoned above 5000 ft will vaporize before reaching the ground . Due to this , <URL> recommend fuel dumping above 5000 ft. In general , the ATC will guide the aircraft to an altitude where it can dump fuel so that it vaporises before reaching the ground . - Atmospheric conditions The evaporative characteristics of the fuel dumped depends on the altitude and the atmospheric temperature . The aircraft fuel tends to vaporise faster in a warm day . - Aircraft separation The ATC will try to keep a minimum lateral separation ( ~ 5 miles ) between the aircraft dumping fuel and other aircraft and also some vertical separation ( ~ 2000 ft , according to Order 7110.65 P ) . Except in case of safety emergency , the fuel dumping is carried out at high altitudes . Note : Some countries do have fuel dumping regulations , like <URL> , which says , The choice of the dumping area is determined by the urgency of the incident , the actual flight path , meteorological conditions and the general air traffic situation . The aircraft is led to a selected area by the air traffic control to dump fuel . At the minimum speed of 250 knots at an altitude of 6,000 ft , but usually with 350 knots at 14,000-16 ,000 ft fuel is dumped ... There exist no predefined dumping areas ...
This depends on the aircraft . In many cases there is a tank inside the wing . In some cases it can be stored in a soft bladder in the wing and in other cases the wing its self is the tank . Here is an in wing tank <URL> Here are some in wing fuel bladders . <URL> Mooney was known for having integrated fuel tanks in their wing designs . <URL> of the tanks being resealed . They are notorious for needing a reseal every now and again but they do save in weight . Modern composite structures often do n't lend to this design as jet fuel or avgas and composites do n't really mix . <URL> Here is a nice cutaway of the A330 to show where the tanks are . <URL> It should be noted that you can generally pump fuel between the tanks however care must be taken when this is done because it can greatly effect the CG . <URL> has some really interesting information on how complex it was to manage the fuel weight on the Concorde and how it needed to be pumped around the tanks during various phases of the flight just to keep the plane stable .
It 's on <URL> : <URL> RF-85655 's Open Skies flights over the United States since the beginning of 2017 Here you can see <URL> over Washington . Two of the recent routes <URL> . One of them flying as low as 3,800 feet . <URL>
Asia Hong Kong : <URL> Africa South Africa : fixed and to be at least 1000 ft above the highest ground within 25nm radius of an airfield ( <URL> ) Europe Belgium : 4,500 feet ( <URL> ) Netherlands : 3,000 feet ( IFR ) / 3,500 feet ( VFR ) ( <URL> ) Oceania Australia : 10,000 feet MSL ( <URL> New Zealand : 13,000 feet AMSL ( <URL> ) North America Canada : 18,000 feet ( <URL> ) United States : 18,000 feet MSL ( <URL> ) South America Argentina : Depends on terminal airspace Brasil : Depends on terminal airspace Chile : Depends on terminal airspace Colombia : 18,000 ft ( <URL> ) Ecuador : Depends on terminal airspace Paraguay : 3000 ft ( <URL> ) Perú : Depends on terminal airspace Uruguay : 3000 ft ( <URL> ) Venezuela : Depends on terminal airspace
I would model the energy flows between kinetic and potential energy . Start with a full bucket of potential energy plus the appropriate speed and drain kinetic energy away over time depending on flight speed . To know how much energy is lost to drag , you need to <URL> using two components : <URL> , which grows with the square of airspeed , and <URL> , which drops with the square of airspeed . If your drag is the sum of both , its minimum will be at some moderate speed . I plotted the drag components for a glider below , but since the physics are the same for a paper airplane , this plot should do for now . The nonlinear behavior of the induced drag curve at low speed is due to flow separation , and something very similar will happen for a paper airplane . The important thing is : The drag curve has a minimum . The energy loss over time is drag $ D$ times speed $ v $ . This energy $ E$ has to come from the reduction of height $ h $ over time $ t $ : $ $ \ frac { \ delta E } { \ delta t } = \ frac { \ delta ( m \ cdot g \ cdot h ) } { \ delta t } = D \ cdot v = m \ cdot g \ cdot v_z $ $ with $ m $ the mass of the paper airplane , $ g $ gravitational acceleration and $ h $ its height above ground . Only $ h $ changes over time , so derivation is easy and the derivative of $ h $ is $ v_z $ , the vertical speed . For picking a realistic drag it helps to rephrase the equation above by introducing lift $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z $ . $ n_z $ is the load factor and is approximately one in straight flight . The ratio between lift and drag for a paper airplane is somewhere between 4 and 10 - just pick a number which results in a realistic simulation . To calculate the sink speed $ v_z $ as a function of flight speed $ v $ use this formula : $ $ v_z = \ frac { c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot v ^ 3 \ cdot \ rho } { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } + \ frac { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } { v \ cdot \ pi \ cdot b ^ 2 \ cdot \ rho } $ $ S is the wing area of the paper airplane and $ b $ its wing span . $ \ rho $ is air density , and for the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ you should pick a number which makes the paper airplane look realistic . Start maybe with 0.05 .
There are no formal qualifications required to be an airport manager -- it 's not a " regulated professional field " in the same way as Doctors , Lawyers , or Professional Engineers . If a person had the money they could purchase an airport and name themselves " airport manager " of their own facility . That said , managing an airport has an interesting set of challenges and could probably be described as like being the mayor of a small city with its own road infrastructure ( runways , taxiways , and ramp areas ) , snow removal services , business districts ( FBOs , restaurants , &amp; other tenants ) , municipal services ( ARFF ) , and utilities ( airport lighting , fuel farms , drainage systems ) . The airport manager will also have to interface with federal agencies : The FAA/DOT at a minimum , and likely also the EPA and Homeland Security ( TSA/CBP ) . Working with the local municipality and dealing with local residents on matters like noise abatement is also usually part of the job . In many ways " airport manager " is as much a political position as an operational one . Because of the unique challenges involved in managing an airport there are degree programs specifically focused on airport management , and preference will probably be given to applicants with those degrees . Alternatively relevant operational experience ( either from running an airport elsewhere or from working in other municipal departments within the county ) might be enough to deem a candidate qualified . <URL> for airport executives/managers which offer independent certification for individuals . As a pilot I would say it 's advantageous for an airport manager to be a pilot ( and in the case of a small airport like the one you describe it would be helpful if they were an active pilot ) , but being a pilot does n't really qualify a person in any of the other key operational areas - snow removal , runway maintenance , emergency response , etc. - so while experience as a pilot or controller might be helpful in that it imparts a greater understanding of the operational impact of certain decisions it would likely be viewed as a secondary qualification .
Yes it is possible , although it is kind of hard to prove it over the internet .1 When a teenager I lived under the approach path of Westover AFB . My friends and I had no difficulty at all distinguishing among these types by sound alone : Douglas DC-3 Douglas DC-7 Boeing 707 Douglas DC-8 Lockheed L-188 Electra Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation Convair B-36 Boeing B-47 Stratojet Boeing B-52 Stratofortress Convair F-102 Delta Dagger ( singly or flights of two or four ) Lockheed F-104 Starfighter ( singly or flights of two or four ) North American F-100 Super Sabre ( singly or flights of two or four ) We only looked up when some other type flew over . 1 . This line is an homage to kevin who said it first .
In the US the " Federal Aviation Regulations " ( FARs ) is shorthand for referring to Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations . You can browse all sections of FARs at <URL> . FAR 23 , for example , covers airworthiness standards . <URL> regulates weight limits .
To answer the question as asked , such data is out there , although it may be hard to get . A flight simulator program is probably much easier , although the real answer to the question probably is , the effects of anything other than straight &amp; level flight are probably dwarfed by the effects of DIRECTION of flight coupled with time-of-day ( i.e. is the sun overhead , or low on the horizon to one side or the other , or ahead of or behind the aircraft ) , and the effect of cloud cover . Airlines capture exactly the data being discussed as part of the Flight Data Recorder -- one of the two famous " black box " recorders ( the other being the Cockpit Voice Recorder ) . This data is routinely downloaded by the airlines ' maintenance departments and analyzed as part of Flight Operations Quality Assurance or FOQA programs . They can see roll , pitch , yaw , heading , altitude , position , track , and dozens if not hundreds of other parameters , all on a moment-by-moment basis , and the analysis of this data is used to inform any number of proactive safety efforts . Rather than waiting for an accident , they can see where things are starting to drift away from what 's desired , and take preventative actions . The problem here is that FOQA data is extremely sensitive , and for an outsider to get access to it is probably somewhere between extremely difficult , and absolutely impossible . The next step down from that would be the logged data as has been discussed in the various comments , and I 'm not smart enough on those specifics to add anything useful to what 's already been posted as far as where and how to get those logs . After that , it is possible to record data yourself , with the right equipment ( not cheap ) . Using an iPad with Foreflight and an AHRS unit ( essentially a self-contained INS , with receivers for things like XM satellite weather , GPS , and ADSB , you can record a track log that includes all the parameters mentioned . Here 's the issue : if you 're paying for that equipment and the flight time , you will want to get DATA for your efforts ... so let 's go do STUFF so we have an interesting track log : do some holding , fly a few approaches , maybe a steep turn or a stall series . Because that 's much more interesting DATA ! But the simple fact is that when airplanes are actually being used for anything besides flight training , most of what they 're doing is simple boring straight &amp; level flight , probably on autopilot . Most of the maneuvering happens at the beginning &amp; end of the flight , on the departure and then on the arrival and the approach , and that all happens at lower altitudes where clouds will have the greatest influence how much sun your solar collectors are getting . Up in the 30-to-40-thousand feet range is where most of the cruise flight happens , mostly straight and level , and with most ( though not all ) of the sun-blocking clouds below you . For a realistic estimate of how much solar energy your panels can get , I strongly suspect that you 'll do best with an assumption of straight &amp; level flight , and models of the various possibilities of direction of flight and time-of-day . And combine that with estimates of how cloud cover will affect your ability to collect solar energy ( remembering that plenty of flights happen at night ) . A really accurate log of a particular flight could allow you to calculate to fairly high precision how your received energy would vary over time for that exact flight , but when you want to generalize that out to a large number of operations , you 'll need to look at the factors that influence collection the most , and those will be the variables other than detailed records of roll &amp; pitch .
Many of these are Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics ( RTCA ) standards . You can get these documents from the <URL> . They are provided free of charge to RTCA members , non-members have to pay . Alternatively you can acquire the European equivalents from EUROCAE ( RTCA DO-178B is <URL> in the <URL> ) . If you want to be up-to-date ( for example if you 're building a new avionics system ) , you should buy the latest version of the standard , such as <URL> / <URL> , which is the latest edition of your example above ( published in 2012 ) .
The short answer is , no , generally only large aircraft have purpose-built fuel dumping systems . Such a system may be helpful in reducing aircraft gross weight to a safe landing weight in the case of a precautionary landing . The approved landing weight of smaller aircraft , such as the C172 , is generally the same as the approved takeoff weight . The longer answer is , yes , it would be possible to " dump " fuel from an aircraft such as a C172 , though not by means of a purpose built mechanism . The " dumping " would be more of a slow to moderately fast drain , depending on the means used . If I wanted to drain the fuel from one of the wing tanks in a C172 while in flight I could use a pen , screw or other such device to drain fuel from the wing tank sump . A faster dumping/draining method -- though requiring considerably more work -- would be to unscrew and remove the fuel drain valve , thereby releasing all the fuel in the wing . Obviously , this later method would hamper the possibility of draining only a portion of the fuel from the wing tank . <URL> I can not think of any reason why I would want to drain the fuel in flight apart from reducing the risk of fire in the event of an emergency landing . And in that case , my prefered method of reducing the risk of a post-landing fire would be to concentrate my efforts on the landing , not on eliminating a fuel source . Generally , I prefer to have more rather than less fuel in the tanks when I fly .
Yes , you can , you do n't need anything other than the words to be visible by the passenger . Your PPL is fine for flying experimentals , although like any other aircraft change , I would get instruction from an experienced instructor in that type/model before going solo . Experimental aircraft can have some pretty different handling characteristics . So , from a regulations standpoint , you are looking for <URL> . According to ( j ) of that : No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate under § 61.113 ( i ) of this chapter unless the aircraft is carrying not more than 6 occupants . So you can have up to 6 occupants ( including the pilot ) . Do I need something special if I wanted to buy one of these planes ? No , your PPL allows you to fly experimentals , but as I said above , please get training from an instructor familiar with the aircraft and its handling characteristics . Many dear departed pilots probably wished in the last moments that they had some formal training in the experimentals they bought . You should also get somebody to go over the aircraft mechanically that is familiar with that model . Also look into your insurance costs , the airplane may be cheaper , but your insurance will probably be more expensive .
Location Identifiers &amp; Airline Designators data files available with daily updates The perfect solution to feeding your coding database . These files ( more information in right hand column ) are available as a 12 month subscription or a one-time web download . For the subscription , you will be granted access to the password protected extranet site upon purchase where you can retrieve the data files update daily . <URL>
You can find much of this sort of information at <URL> For example , searching for <URL> lists their fleet , and clicking the number of active for a model ( eg <URL> ) will list the tail number and other interesting information . From there you can click a <URL> for all the information along with a picture .
Actually , a similar concept was tested by the USAF in the 50s ( like most things in aviation , it seems ) . Under the name of Project Tom Tom , the military was looking into the possibility of coupling a parasite fighter ( an F-84 in this instance ) to a B-36 as a long-distance escort as it flew into the Soviet Union by joining the two aircraft together at the wingtips . Flying as such , the F-84 would actually power down its engines during coupled flight and could receive fuel from the B-36 . However , the aspect with greater relevance to the question is that the B-36 would actually derive an aerodynamic benefit from this arrangment as well . In theory , the combined aircraft would also benefit from having an artificially elongated wing as well , and , while I remember reading last year that this actually did result in superior fuel efficiency for the combined aircraft during cruise , I am at a loss to find that source right now . At any rate , with respect to this question , the B-36 effectively docked with a pair of " wing extensions " ( in this case , a pair of F-84s ) while in flight and derived a benefit in cruise . A video of the concept can be found here : . Also , more reading can be found in this text Flying Aircraft Carriers of the USAF : Wing Tip Coupling by Brian Lockett . Naturally , there were significant downsides to this idea . While the F-84 actually did manage to engage the coupling mechanism on the B-36 on test flights , logging at least a couple hours of continuous , coupled flight , significant stability and safety issues were uncovered during testing that led to the scrapping of the project . As noted in a quote from <URL> : The wing-tip coupling mechanism as developed and flight tested in the Tom-Tom program is not considered satisfactory for tactical use and was barely acceptable for test flying . It appeared that a new difficulty and a now shortcoming were uncovered on virtually every test flight . The extent of rework necessary before the coupling mechanisms as designed were acceptable as flight test articles is covered under the DESIGN section of this report . Similarly , issues with aeroelasticity turned out to be a much larger issue than originally expected ( in part because of the change pitching/heaving forces as well as wing mass distribution and stiffness at the joint ) . I think that Aurora Flight Sciences ran into similar issues when they were <URL> ... the idea was to join multiple vehicles ( that were essentially flying wings ) to create a super-efficient , high-altitude , solar-powered , surveillance aircraft . Due to conflicting requirements on wing structure and aircraft weight , I think that ultimately did n't fly ... but I do n't have any of the details for that . Just what I remember from a presentation I saw many years ago . At any rate , I guess that my answer is : yes , it could . But it is VERY difficult and dangerous to do ( at present ) .
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
What you need would be named " ICAO 1/500 ,000 map " , this is a VFR map with airspace class , based on a <URL> . Example in the US ( 1/250 ,000 ) : <URL> The best I can find online is SkyVector , but you said it 's not sufficient for you needs : <URL> By searching carefully you may find things like that : <URL> <URL> ( source : <URL> ) But these are 1/1 ,000,000 th very old maps from US DoD . An alternative would be to use the online <URL> , selecting carefully layers and data to display , my trial at that : <URL> It must be improved to suit your needs , but I do n't expect it to be better than SkyVector . By clicking on a location , you can display all the information about relevant areas ( description , limits , etc ) . For enroute , <URL> provide two maps : <URL> <URL> . Good for intersection points and routes . On the airport plates side , the <URL> is not in public access , but several sites provide plates , e.g. : <URL> ( static ) <URL> ( interactive ) <URL> provides link to other sites like SkyVector . <URL> could be a good point of contact to discuss local documentation . They have a section Charts accessible to registered users . - <URL> is another virtual network . If you can provide additional requirements , me or someone else may provide better material .
Yes , it can be done , but to <URL> is a lot of work . You will also need to use a thinner gauge than 1/32 " to get the weight down . Note that one of the very <URL> was made of 0.2 mm ( 1/128 " ) sheet steel and flew well . However , building it required a corrugated substructure and a welded steel tube frame for strength . Still , it was heavier than necessary so its builder switched to aluminium for later designs . Generally , the tension length of steel ( strength relative to density ) is roughly equal with that of aluminium or titanium ; however , you will need to use high-grade steel to be comparable with aircraft-grade aluminium , so some of the price advantage will be lost . But there is a distinct disadvantage with higher-density materials . While their strength scales linearly with wall thickness , their <URL> scales with the square of their thickness . You will end up with a very delicate structure which will require careful handling to avoid local dimples and a stiff substructure to avoid early failure in compression . Also , introducing loads locally ( say , for a landing gear or an engine mount ) will require local reinforcements which should ideally be multi-layered and taper out in several steps . If you want to scale an existing structure down , make sure you place the stiffeners closer than what a scale construction would require . But I am sure you will prefer to bond the sheet steel to a styrofoam core . Use a higher-density styrofoam with better compression strength and be generous with local reinforcements , and the model should turn out fine .
end question
start question
Why are bird strikes on approach or landing not as common as on takeoff ?
I 've heard about lots of bird strike incidents that occured during a takeoff roll or the early phase of takeoff climb but hardly heard of bird strikes on approach or landing . This is always a dangerous thing . Only because you hear more bird strikes that occur on takeoff , it does not mean there are more at takeoff . I found , for example , <URL> about bird strikes from the year 2000 . It says : [ ... ] 38 % of the bird strikes occurred during take-off and climb , and 56 % during approach [ ... ] That means there are more bird strikes during approach than on takeoff . I assume things have n't changed a lot since then . This question is even answered in the <URL> : Q : Do most bird strikes occur while in flight , at takeoff , or landing ? A : About 60 % of bird strikes with civil aircraft occur during landing phases of flight ( descent , approach and landing roll ) ; 37 % occur during take-off run and climb ; and the remainder occur during the en-route phase . A more specific statistic : <URL> <URL> Possible reason for subjective perception of bird-strikes happening more often during departure I thought a little about it and came to following possible reason : After a bird-strike on final , the pilots will continue landing . It would be unwise not to land immediately . For the passengers it will look like a normal landing . If the bird damages the engine , there is only a small change of sound , because the engines are running very low . However , when a bird-strike occurs while taking off , there is immediate action taken by the pilots . And because the engines are at or near full thrust , the sound of a dying engine can be perceived by the passengers . Last but not least , a departing aircraft has a much higher speed than a landing one , which means more damage . So , for newspapers , a bird-strike at take-off is more <URL> . More damage to the plane than a bird-strike on final Passengers not reaching their destination Dramatic passenger interviews about their " near-death-experience " A newspaper is not interested in a bird-strike on final , where everything went fine and no passenger noticed anything . To support my theorem , I googled " bird strike " and clicked on the " News " - tab . I looked through every article that had to do something with an bird-strike incident . 5 out of 6 articles were about a bird-strike on take-off . That 's over 80 % .
AVTUR stands for AViation TURbine Fuel and is equivalent to JP-1 , at least in the UK and in as much as JP-1 no longer exists . I believe that the US military equivalent is JP8 which is Jet-A1 with additional additives , which differs from commercial Jet-A only by a lower freezing point . <URL> for Avtur with is the same defstan as for Jet-A1 . <URL> to an Exxon document gives a great deal of information for various aviation fuel oils . [ EDIT ] <URL> JP-8 is the military equivalent of Jet A-1 with the addition of corrosion inhibitor and anti-icing additives ; it meets the requirements of the U.S. Military Specification MIL-T-83188D . It is the dominant military jet fuel grade for NATO airforces . The UK also have a specification for this grade namely DEF STAN 91-87 AVTUR/FSII ( formerly DERD 2453 ) . NATO Code F-34 .
The short answer is , it depends . The FAA Airplane Flying Handbook merely states that this can be performed once the aircraft has established positive climb , but does not specify exactly when . Ultimately two situations arise : The airplane is sufficiently large/high performance that normal operating procedures specify the use of flaps for all takeoff scenarios , in which case the manufacturer or the operator ( if applicable ) may well specify a flap retraction schedule , which seeks to allow the aircraft to accelerate effectively during climb out , avoid overstressing the flaps by having the aircraft fly past the maximum speed for each flap setting , while at the same time maintain a comfortable margin above stall speed . The airplane only requires flaps for certain kinds of takeoffs such as maximum performance or soft-field efforts . In that case , procedures may be somewhat looser in defining the exact moment of flap retraction . A climb checklist , should you choose to use one , will likely mention the flap configuration as an action/verification item , so that would likely be a good moment to retract them if you have n't done so already . Personally , I usually retract them passing thru 200-300 feet AGL , which usually coincides to the aircraft being at least half-way between clean configuration Vx and Vy ( I 've been mostly flying Skyhawks , Skylanes , Arrows , and Huskies ) . Whichever way you do it though , you want to avoid retracting them too low and too slow , but also forgetting about them and blowing through Vfe ( which even light , slow airplanes can do quite handily ) . With respect to the actual changes in aircraft behavior the changes , you 'll likely notice the following things : A slight-nose down moment as wing 's characteristics change , which influences the airflow reaching your horizontal stabilizer . The converse applies when extending flaps . Mind you , this is an airplane model-specific thing and one that seemed most noticeable to me in the Cessna family of light singles . Fort he same power setting and pitch attitude , the aircraft will begin to accelerate quicker for each notch of flap retraction . Climb rate is trickier as it is dependent on you power setting , airspeed , and pitch angle ; your inputs will matter . However , generally speaking , the reduction in drag would lead to a greater difference between power available ( or power set ) and power required , so , all things being equal , you would likely see an increase in climb rate .
This answer needs some background information . What became the A400M started as the Future Large Aircraft or FLA in 1983 . Airbus was worried what to do with their engineers after work on the <URL> was completed , and the next projects , soon to be called TA9 and TA11 ( TA for Twin Aisle ; they would eventually mature into the A330 and A340 ) , were still far , far away . So the idea of a <URL> follow-up was dreamed up to keep Airbus busy , and the engines for this plane would help <URL> to fund the development of their next engine after the <URL> . Yes , the FLA started life with four turbofans ! However , the European military did not like to have turbofans on something that should have the shortest <URL> requirements possible , and especially their desire for the new transport aircraft to backup under its own power made them to demand turboprops . So in the late Eighties the FLA was converted to turboprops . These were to use the core of the <URL> , so Snecma would be happy with the new configuration . This project went through many ups and downs in the quarter of a century between its start and the first flight of the A400M , and many of the sometimes ugly details should better never be mentioned ...
Turning Radius , as found in a planning document : 28.7 m for a Boeing 777-200 34.7 m for a Boeing 777-300 Rotating around one a point a bit off the wing to allow both wheels to roll throughout . Minimum Pavement Width 47.5 m for a Boeing 777-200 56.0 m for a Boeing 777-300 <URL> <URL> <URL> Be aware that this is not exactly ideal - visibility from the flightdeck is not great and you do not want the gear running into the grass or edge lights . An <URL> screwed up in Warsaw not too long ago when trying to pull this stunt . Since this width is not normally provided by the runway ( even Heathrow only has 45m and 50m runway width ) , you will add turning pads at the end unless there are taxiways you can use instead . <URL>
It 's probably not possible to get a caveat-free zero since major if any time has been logged since the log entry . You 're tracking two numbers now : Time since bottom Time since top ( if a top was done , maybe cyls have just been replaced as necessary ... that 's perfectly fine ) . This really is n't a big deal , practically speaking , but entries like these would have me asking follow-up questions as a buyer only because it 's unusual see a bottom OH without the top being done as well . That said , it 's very common to see and engine topped at least once between overhauls which has the effect of staggering top and bottom times anyway ! Assuming that you 're in the US and operating under pt91 the engine can be run on-condition for as long as it stays healthy . This could be 4,000 hrs over 50yrs if you know how to manage your engine . If you 're dead set on having a " typical " 0 SMOH entry in the logs you 'll likely have to have the whole engine overhauled again . Do n't do that . A bottom with 500hrs is safer than a freshly overhauled engine anyway . Was it a stationary strike or was the engine running ? What kind of engine is it ?
" Total time " is n't an officially defined term as far as I know . Most people seem to use it to mean " total flight time " , i.e. the total of their PIC , SIC and flight training time ( excluding simulator training ) . In general , you can log and count whatever you want in your logbook provided that you log at least the items required in 61.51 ( a ) : ( a ) Training time and aeronautical experience . Each person must document and record the following time in a manner acceptable to the Administrator : ( 1 ) Training and aeronautical experience used to meet the requirements for a certificate , rating , or flight review of this part . ( 2 ) The aeronautical experience required for meeting the recent flight experience requirements of this part . So , the bottom line is that " total time " is whatever you want it to be , and if you want to log ' fun time ' in aircraft that you are n't qualified to fly then go ahead ; the time just wo n't count for anything as far as the FAA is concerned . As for your two scenarios : You ca n't log any ' FAA time ' because you 're not certified to fly the aircraft as PIC or SIC , and you are n't receiving training . You might note it in your logbook for your own reasons but you ca n't count it towards anything for the FAA 's purposes . The passenger is n't certified and therefore can not act as PIC ; even if he 's physically moving the controls , you 're still PIC .
Yes . Ignoring companies that used to exist but are now bankrupt/merged into Airbus or Boeing , you have companies from countries that are n't historically too friendly with the US and Western Europe . For instance , Tupolev makes the <URL> , which is currently in production and seats over 175 passengers . The Ilyushin-designed <URL> is a widebody in current use some places ( Russia , Cuba ) . Before the Cold War ended , Russia had more indigenous airliners ; Aeroflot now largely uses Boeings and Airbuses , but there are still Russian aircraft that see use . In addition , you have newer manufacturers starting to enter the market : Bombardier with their <URL> , Comac ( in China ) with their <URL> ( in development ) , and Irkut with their <URL> ( in development ) . Embraer makes <URL> ( although they 're shorter-range , and you might consider them regional jets ) .
<URL> that are capable of <URL> , and some aircraft can use this system to <URL> . However , <URL> and still has its limits , and other reasons for not always using this system are <URL> . Further reasons for this technology not being more fully developed yet are probably similar to <URL> . A completely automated , unmanned landing on a carrier has been done , <URL> . Although a computerized system is theoretically more capable of performing precise carrier landings , the details are complex . A lot of sensing and control must be worked out . The team behind the X-47B was awarded the <URL> for the advances in aeronautics they achieved . The sensors and processing that the UAV uses to do this are probably not all standard equipment on naval aircraft . Adding them would create extra expense and weight . If the system requires addition to the carrier as well , there is more added expense . And in a combat situation , do you want to rely on systems that could be jammed or failed ? If you are going to land the plane without a pilot , you might as well not have the pilot at all , and this is the route that future unmanned systems are taking , but there is a lot more work to be done before they completely replace human pilots .
I know nothing about <URL> , but according to <URL> they 're a separate category for licensing , like airplane , rotorcraft or glider . It is therefore possible to get a " private pilot powered-lift " certificate without having any flying experience in any other aircraft type . 14 CFR 61.109 , 61.129 and 61.163 state the flying requirements for private , commercial and ATP powered-lift ratings respectively and 61.65 has the requirements for a powered-lift instrument rating . 61.109 ( e ) ( 5 ) does allow substituting some limited airplane ( i.e. fixed-wing ) experience for powered-lift time : ( 5 ) 10 hours of solo flight time in an airplane or powered-lift consisting of at least -- There are also allowances for using simulator and military experience in lieu of powered-lift flight time , but I could n't see anything that directly allows rotorcraft experience to count towards powered-lift certification . The fact that powered-lift is a category of its own suggests that the FAA considers them to be significantly different from rotorcraft . So yes , you could theoretically start from zero and work to get your private , instrument , commercial and/or ATP ratings with flying time in powered-lift aircraft only . If , that is , you can find a powered-lift aircraft and an instructor : an ATP requires 1500 hours of experience and doing them all in powered-lift aircraft may not be practical ( <URL> only requires 250 of them to be in a powered-lift aircraft ) . In reality , I suspect that any civilian powered-lift pilots who are not ex-military are ( or will be ) people with extensive rotorcraft and/or fixed-wing experience who then follow a training program provided by the aircraft manufacturer . Your insurance company will probably also have a say in who you hire and what experience they have . Finding and training those people wo n't be cheap , but if you 're buying up new AW609s then you can probably afford it :-)
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
Thrust depends on speed and the type of engine . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Drag depends also on speed , and in addition on lift . During the takeoff roll the dynamic pressure grows with the square of speed , and drag is almost proportional to the dynamic pressure . Since the flow 's <URL> also increases with speed , the zero-lift drag coefficient ( aka friction plus pressure drag coefficient ) decreases with speed . Depending on the ground attitude of the aircraft it will create already some lift during the rolling phase , but lift substantially increases during rotation when it is raised to lift the aircraft off the ground . When the aircraft accelerates further after liftoff , the lift-dependent part of drag goes down with speed while the zero-lift part continues to increase with dynamic pressure . For most aircraft , thrust is highest when the aircraft is at rest ( constant pitch propellers can have a lousy efficiency at takeoff when they are optimized for fast flight , so here you might have higher thrust at some positive speed ) , and decreases the faster the aircraft moves through air . Since drag is also lowest with the aircraft at rest , the highest acceleration is possible right after brake release . As soon as the aircraft rotates , the new lift-dependent drag component will cause a marked decrease in acceleration , and when the aircraft climbs , some of the excess thrust needs to go into climbing , so acceleration decreases again . Newton 's first law gives a formula for acceleration a : $ $ a = \ frac { T - D } { m } $ $ where T is thrust , D is drag and m is the mass of the aircraft . The integration of acceleration over time gives speed . There is no single formula for the velocity curve , and my recommendation is to split the take-off into three sections : Ground roll , rotation and initial climb . In all phases you need to calculate with speed-depependent drag and thrust , so it will be best to integrate the parameters stepwise in small time steps . The comments encouraged me to give a more detailed list of drag components . These here have to be considered during the take-off roll : Zero-lift drag of the airframe ( due to friction and pressure ) Induced ( lift-related ) drag for the aircraft in horizontal attitude , including reduction due to ground effect Drag increment due to flaps in take-off position Landing gear drag Wheel friction ( 0.025 * weight on a hard runway , but a lot more on soft ground ) Kinetic energy loss or gain due to runway slope With rotation onset these drag components must be added : Trim drag due to elevator deflection to lift the nose Induced drag at the actual pitch angle When the aircraft lifts off , these changes must be considered : Reduced power for acceleration due to power requirement for climb No more wheel friction When the gear is retracted , drag increases as the doors open and is greatly reduced once all wheels are stowed . Ground effect is reduced as the aircraft climbs away from the ground Do n't forget to include wind speed in your calculation !
No , the gear does n't actively extend , and any passive change to the strut extension during takeoff is likely to be imperceptible . What you are perceiving during takeoff is the <URL> . It is a physiological sensation , not a physical change . Rapid acceleration , as during a takeoff roll , causes the inner ear to report what your brain assumes is your head tilting back . The <URL> sit in fluid and detect the tilt of your head . Acceleration and pitching up ( or tilting back ) cause the exact same movement of the otoliths . Because the otoliths are pushed backwards by the fluid , just like they would by you tilting your head back , it feels like a climb . When an airliner is taking off , you have limited outside references to the horizon and your inner ear takes over the task of orienting you . You might notice it in smaller aircraft if you closed your eyes ; in very small aircraft , the acceleration may be too slow to trigger the illusion .
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
The USDOT has a list off things related to this <URL> but there are many factors . International Travel : Since flights often go between countries that also means they cross jurisdictions . Many countries have varying laws on importing and exporting different animals . As such airlines may not always allow you to carry animals since it may not be legal . Contamination : Animals can carry a wide variety of disease and other things . An airline my chose to not carry animals to avoid any potential issues . Even if in the cargo hold it can not be guaranteed that the animals fur wont come in contact with another passengers baggage . If that passenger had an allergy to that type of fur they may later have an issue . Food : Placing an animal in the baggage hold prevents anyone from effectively feeding the animal which the DOT does seem to have some regulations on for longer flights . Temperature : Although it is pressurized the baggage compartment is by no means warm . This prevents a potentially dangerous situation for animals as well . As for bringing an animal on the plane ( aside from service animals which are not considered animals ) . It would seem that the FAA leaves this specific matter up to the airlines . According to <URL> when it comes to What are the FAA rules regarding traveling with pets in the passenger cabin ? The Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) allows each airline to decide if they will allow you to travel with your pet in the passenger cabin . If an airline does allow you to bring your pet into the cabin , we consider your pet container to be carry-on baggage and you must follow all carry on baggage rules ( 14 CFR part 121 , section 121.589 ) :
TCAS gets fairly accurate altitude information from the same source as the transponder . Thus any extrapolation from this information can yield a fairly accurate prediction of whether two aircraft may collide , and provide more certainty that changes in altitude will avert any conflict . Range information is obtained by measuring the round trip time of the interrogation and response . This will also be fairly accurate . Direction information is obtained by using the TCAS antenna to detect the direction of responses from other aircraft . These values are then extrapolated to provide an expected path of other aircraft . Most airliners <URL> which only provides the vertical guidance . <URL> was envisioned to provide horizontal guidance as well , but : it was judged by the industry to be unfeasible due to limitations in the accuracy of the TCAS directional antennas . Even if TCAS can be accurate to <URL> in direction , this translates to over 300 feet of uncertainty at 1 nmi . TCAS IV was planned to use more accurate GPS information , but with ADS-B becoming more widely adopted , this development was stopped in favor of some future system that can use existing ADS-B technology . Another point is that airplanes are generally larger in the horizontal plane than the vertical , and thus would need to change course more horizontally to avoid collision than they would need to vertically . Especially as planes get larger , they also tend to be more maneuverable in pitch than in turns .
It 's not so much a matter of " pilots typically get very uncomfortable " as it is " pilots recognize that it is an inherently less safe situation " , and pilots ( at least the ones you want to fly with ) tend to be somewhat safety obsessed . So Why are tailwinds during landing " bad " ? The same reason tailwinds in cruise flight are good : you 're moving over the ground at a higher speed . The amount of energy the aircraft has ( and thus its landing distance ) is roughly proportional to the square of the groundspeed . Let 's consider the plane I fly as an example ( a <URL> ) because I know the numbers : if I 'm flying by the book then when the wheels of my plane hit the ground my indicated airspeed should be around 45 knots . No Wind If there 's no wind my ground speed and my indicated airspeed will be about the same - my brakes will have to slow me from 45 knots to a stop before I run out of runway . The brakes on the Cherokee are n't Porsche brakes ( they 're tiny little things ) , but they 're up to the task and a book-perfect landing would have me stopped in 600 feet . 15-Knot Headwind A 15 knot headwind reduces my groundspeed to 30 knots - at 2/3 the speed I can stop much sooner with the same braking force , which means less wear on the brakes and a greater safety margin of runway remaining . A book-perfect landing in these conditions would have me stopped in about 270 feet . 15-knot Tailwind A 15 knot tailwind increases my groundspeed to 60 knots . The tiny little brakes on the Cherokee CAN stop me , but they 're going to take much longer to do so : A book-perfect landing would take over 1000 feet to stop ( nearly twice the " normal " no-wind landing roll ) . The big consideration above is landing distance -- as you noted in your question you can solve that with a longer runway ( more pavement means more room to stop ) , but there are other dangers with tailwind landings , mainly in the fact that Landings do n't always go according to plan . The slower your groundspeed at landing the less energy you have to get rid of if something goes wrong Consider the three landings I outlined above , but let 's add a problem to the mix : One of my tires blows right at touchdown , and the plane veers off the runway into a ditch . There is much less energy to dissipate with a 15-knot headwind ( 30kt groundspeed ) than there is with a 15-knot tailwind ( 60kt groundspeed ) - it 's roughly the difference between crashing your car driving through a school zone versus speeding on a highway . Fortunately it 's really easy to avoid landing with a tailwind -- most runways are bidirectional ( Aspen , which you mentioned in your question , is a notable exception due to geography ) . ATC ( or at uncontrolled fields , the pilots themselves ) will " turn the airport around " once a certain tailwind limit is reached . Precisely when that happens depends on the airport and the traffic mix ( at my home field , with mostly small piston aircraft , ATC will typically switch the runway when the tailwind component exceeds 5 knots - at JFK they might land a jet with a 10-knot tailwind rather than messing up the arrivals ) . Of course there 's nothing that says a pilot has to accept a landing with a tailwind : If the pilot is not comfortable with the conditions they can request a runway aligned so the winds are more favorable . ( There is a <URL> who ultimately decided to declare an emergency to ensure a landing on a favorable runway ) .
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
The Pilot Monitoring ( PM ) or Second In Command ( SIC ) can not log the approach . FAA has <URL> : You then ask if , for the purposes of maintaining instrument currency , an instrument approach on the above flight flown by the PIC can be logged as an instrument approach by the SIC . The answer is no . As the SIC you have not " performed " the approach as contemplated by FAR 61.57 ( c ) because you were not the sole manipulator of the controls during the approach .
The C172 has right of way , it 's lower . The rules are in <URL> and the only place where categories are mentioned is in 91.113 ( d ) , which is specifically about converging traffic at " approximately the same altitude " . For landing traffic , the lower aircraft has the right of way . People spend lots of time and energy discussing who has right of way on final , what " on final approach " really means , if it 's OK to <URL> a faster ( or slower ) aircraft , if an aircraft on a 5-mile final prevents other aircraft in the pattern from landing etc. . But the discussion often becomes a bit academic : practically speaking the point is to be safe , not create any problems , and not cause other aircraft to go around or maneuver to avoid you . Think of it like pulling out of a side street in your car : if another car is coming then you should n't cause him to brake hard or swerve to avoid you .
end question
start question
What is a flight leg and why it is so important for an aircraft ?
With respect to avionics and fault logs , flight legs is just one more data point . It 's not any more important than any other piece of data , but it does have value . Avionics are not structure and do n't care as much about pressurization cycles , but it can be a factor - the pressure change between sea level and 8000 cabin altitude does have some effect . It 's just that avionics can easily count flight legs and it makes for an easy way to organize the fault logs along with flight phase . It is useful data when trying to find the root cause of an intermittent fault in a piece of avionics . Fault logs typically log at least 20 legs before they " roll over " and overwrite old data . With some aircraft flying 6 or more legs a day , that ensures the plane can get to a base with maintenance before the fault gets overwritten . The value is the ability to help detect patterns . I 've seen faults that only occur on the first leg of the day after the plane was parked overnight at a very humid airport . Re-creating the conditions allowed us to duplicate the fault . The problem was a flaw in the conformal coating ( sealant ) on a circuit card that allowed moisture to cause a short . Once the unit had operated for an hour or so , the heat had dried it out and it worked fine .
Briefly , " overhaul " is n't a strictly defined term but it 's generally used to refer to the intensive inspection , maintenance and repair of an aircraft component , frequently - but not exclusively - the engines . The word overhaul by itself is a general term that 's used in all sorts of places but it 's not defined in <URL> , for example . The most specific definition I could find is in <URL> between the FAA and EASA : " Overhaul " means a process that ensures the aeronautical article is in complete conformity with the applicable service tolerances specified in the type certificate holder 's , or equipment manufacturer 's instructions for continued airworthiness , or in the data which is approved or accepted by the Authority . No person may describe an article as being overhauled unless it has been at least disassembled , cleaned , inspected , repaired as necessary , reassembled and tested in accordance with the above-specified data . Note that that definition only mentions " aeronautical articles " , which is very broad indeed and not limited to just engines , airframes or anything else . In the general aviation world , a very common usage of " overhaul " is in the context of piston engines , which have a <URL> ( TBO or TBOH ) set by the manufacturer . Once an engine reaches that number of hours , it needs to be overhauled . But even there , the term is n't precise and the FAA has a circular called Reciprocating Engine Overhaul Terminology and Standards that explains what it usually means : c. Overhaul . In the general aviation industry , the term engine overhaul has two identifications that make a distinction between the degrees of work on an engine : ( 1 ) Major Overhaul . A major overhaul consists of the complete disassembly of an engine . The overhaul facility inspects the engine , repairs it as necessary , reassembles , tests , and approves it for return to service within the fits and limits specified by the manufacturer 's overhaul data . This could be to new fits and limits or serviceable limits . The engine owner should clearly understand what fits and limits should be used when the engine is presented for overhaul . The owner should also be aware of any replaced parts , regardless of condition , as a result of a manufacturer 's overhaul data , SB , or an Airworthiness Directive ( AD ) . ( 2 ) Top Overhaul . Top overhaul consists of repair to parts outside of the crankcase , and can be accomplished without completely disassembling the entire engine . It can include the removal of cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinder walls , pistons , valve-operation mechanisms , valve guides , valve seats , and the replacement of piston and piston rings . All manufacturers do not recommend a top overhaul . Some manufacturers indicate that a powerplant requiring work to this extent should receive a complete overhaul . Apart from that usage , the term <URL> seems to be <URL> in the airline industry to describe maintenance facilities , but there is n't any specific definition that I could find . So there 's no single definition of " overhaul " . It just means that you 've very thoroughly inspected and tested something on an aircraft , whether it 's an engine or a wheel , and you 've verified that it 's fit to be used in flight , i.e. it 's airworthy . The reasons why it 's important are probably obvious ; they 're the same reasons that your car needs regular servicing to run safely , efficiently and reliably .
It 's not so much that thrust reversers ( TRs ) are more unreliable than other components of the plane . However , they have a very important impact on the airplane 's performance . Hydraulics , flaps , and even engines fail regularly . But <URL> and <URL> can be backed up by redundant systems , and an airplane can still <URL> . But engineers learned from <URL> that an airplane may not be controllable if the TRs deploy in flight . So in the interest of safety , the TRs have additional precautions . The reasons for not aborting a landing after they are deployed are discussed in your first linked question . Reliability is also not the only reason for having no TRs on the A380 outboard engines , as discussed in the second linked question . So to answer your question , there is indeed a technical challenge in making the TRs reliable : they absolutely must not deploy in flight . This means many safeguards are put in place , and they are designed to fail by not deploying if there is any doubt about whether it is safe . A TR that wo n't deploy is more desirable than a TR that deploys when you do n't want it to .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
I 've never done it IRL , but read about it lots , and Flight Simmed it many times , so I 'll take a stab . ( until someone who has actually done it says better ) Glide Path When landing on a fixed runway , your glide-path is pretty much right towards the end of the runway.Its not like that at all on a Carrier . From up high , you are actually aiming for a point in front of the carrier . You 're aiming for where the runway will be in 30 seconds . As you get closer , the carrier moves closer into position . But still not entirely in position until the last second . So you 're always aiming for an invisible/imaginary point where the runway will be at the last second . This is the best picture I 've found of what I 'm describing : <URL> Notice that the flight path indicator ( the little circle in the HUD ) is well beyond the front of the carrier . If this plane was landing on a runway , the flight path would be aimed right at the numbers . No Flare In a typical runway landing you flare out just before touchdown , " float " for a second and drop on to the runway.In a carrier landing , you maintain your glide-path attitude all the way on to the deck . There 's no flare or float . This helps you hit exactly the spot you 're aiming for ( the 3-wire ) , but in some sense you really are crashing into the deck at a not-inconsiderable descent rate . Pitching Deck Remember the glide path to the imaginary touch-down point ? Because the carrier deck can be pitching or rolling in the waves , that imaginary touch-down point is not a fixed distance directly in front of the ship . As the ship bobs and weaves around , your touchdown point is moving around too . That makes it even harder to hit the point right . It can well be at the last second , as your plane is dropping quickly , the deck suddenly jumps up to meet you , making the impact even more violent . Sideways Movement The landing part of a carrier deck is the diagonal part on the back of the deck . It is angled about 20-degrees to the left , relative to the carrier . But it is moving directly forward with the movement of the carrier . This means the " runway " is not moving directly away from you , but slipping sideways .
A Fixed Base Operator ( FBO ) is an entity - usually a commercial company - which provides " aviation services " at an airport . One of the main services they provide is fueling , either full service or a self service pump . They do n't all provide both 100LL and JetA , but most do . Larger ones provide other services , such as catering , lavatory service , pre-flight briefing computers and wifi access , ground power units , and tie down or hangar space for parking . Charges vary from place to place , most large FBOs will charge a fee for aircraft parking , but sometimes waive a day or so of that if you purchase fuel . They can often assist in arranging ground transport or hotels as well . Most are open hours like 7AM - 8PM , but that varies as well . Most self-service pumps can be used 24 hours a day . Some have a " crew car " available to borrow for a short trip to get lunch or run an errand , though calling ahead to check on that is important .
Blending is the process of filing and polishing damaged sections off of the turbine blade . This prevents further damage and extends the life of the engine without having to replace parts , making it a very economical solution . There is a limit however , as modifying the turbine blades leads to a small cost in efficiency that can build up over time . <URL>
There are a lot of good reasons not to roll such an airplane . If the plane has gyroscopic instruments , you might tumble them ( cause the spinning gyro to hit the inside of the instrument ) . This can be expensive . You might easily over-stress the air frame . <URL> . ( That 's for a new aircraft ) A botched roll can easily hit 4.5 or higher . If you over stress the air frame , you might just put a lot of very expensive " wrinkles " in the skin that would be very hard to explain to the FBO , your boss , or the insurance company . Trashing the gyros would be cheaper . If you 're not lucky , the wings fold up and you fall out of the sky . It 's a stupid way to die . Non-aerobatic aircraft typically have limited elevator authority ; once upside down , you might find it very difficult to keep the nose pushed up high enough to keep the roll going . Turning a botched roll into a " split-S " is one of the worst " recovery " mistakes you can make , and you 're setting yourself up for it . Non-aerobatic aircraft often have gravity-feed fuel systems . A little bit of 0 or negative " G " and it will get very very quiet in the plane . Some people consider this silence detrimental to the continued safety of the flight . Non-aerobatic aircraft rarely have inverted oil systems . As the engine gets quiet , it also loses most of its lubrication . Bare metal on metal friction can be detrimental to achieving <URL> . Having said all that , in the hands of an expert , it is technically possible to barrel roll most aircraft . A good way to tell if you 're an expert is to call your insurance company and tell them exactly what you plan to do . If they 'll quote you affordable coverage , you might be an expert . Obligatory links because if I do n't include them someone else will : <URL> . I 'm pretty sure he 'd never get away with this today . <URL> . Bob Hoover is beyond expert . Way , way , beyond expert . If you want to roll an airplane , contact your local aerobatic club . In the US and some countries , it 's the <URL> . Get some competent dual instruction in a suitably rated airplane .
Flight hours are limited to 30 hours in 7 days , 100 hours in a month and 1000 in a year . Scheduling rules also say I need at least 1 day off a week , so 6 day trips are the max for me ( 121 US domestic scheduled ) . Let 's look at a typical trip , which at my company tended to be a 4 day trip . You want good productive trips , but you ca n't always get them . On a 4 day trip let 's say I have 6 hours of flight scheduled each day , or 24 hours scheduled that week . I am getting paid the better of 24 hours or the actual flight time . Now let 's look at my duty day . For a 6 hour day with 4 legs it was not unheard of to have a 12 hour duty day . So now for a 4 day trip , I 'm " at work " 48 hours and being paid for half of that . Now consider that I 'm not going home every night and my trip starts at 6 am on Friday and ends at midnight Monday night -- that totals to 90 hours away from home . How does this compare to a 40 hour work week in an office ? In that case you are on duty 40 hours , getting paid 40 hours ( or salary ) and if you have a 1 hour commute one way , you are spending 50 hours away from home . Back to the flight schedule . A given month will have trips less productive than 24 hours and although you can probably build a 96 hour month if you tried , the average line of flying is typically going to be 75 hours of flying . You can ballpark that will equate to 150 duty hours and 300 hours away from home for the month . Extrapolate that to a year , and you have 900 flight hours , 1800 duty hours and 3600 hours away from home . I would say this represents the average US domestic 121 pilot . Some do more , some do less , but this is pretty typical . What do we do with all of that duty time that is n't flying ? Let 's see : Eating Updating charts Checking the weather Checking the paperwork Coordinating with gate agents , ramp agents , fuel agents to make sure we leave on time Programming the FMS and getting our IFR clearance Preflighting the airplane Postflighting the airplane Doing the weight and balance Sleeping Note , that all of these activities require we are at the airport , in the secure area and we are not being paid . The pay clock starts ( roughly ) when the airplane is buttoned up and the parking brake is released and ends when the parking brake is set and main cabin door opened .
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
ICAO Class F airspace is a bit of an odd duck ( and the US FAA is apparently not the only agency that thinks so - from a quick check on <URL> it seems more jurisdictions ignore class F than implement it . They only mention Class F as being in use in Germany and the UK ) . From a functional/regulatory standpoint Class F is a sort of hybrid between " Class E " controlled airspace and " Class G " ( fully ) uncontrolled airspace : Class F airspace is designated as " uncontrolled " , but you can get ATC clearances in Class F airspace just like in controlled airspace . The catch is they 're " advisory only " ( so you do n't have to comply with them , and all the weight is on the pilot 's shoulders ) . Similarly ATC will provide separation services to IFR flights in Class F airspace , but they do so " where possible " , which means they might tell you they ca n't provide that service and you 're on your own with see-and-avoid . The general use case for Class F airspace seems to be allowing IFR flights to operate in " uncontrolled airspace " . As a US pilot ( and thus having no experience with Class F Airspace ) , it sounds like the services provided in Class F airspace are effectively the equivalent of <URL> : Controllers can give you advisories and make suggestions , but all responsibility is ultimately still on the pilot 's shoulders , and you can politely tell the controller to get stuffed if you do n't like their suggestions ( without needing to declare an emergency to vest yourself with that authority ) . In the US we already have the Flight Following system and culture set up for VFR folks ( and generally speaking it 's available nationwide , irrespective of airspace class , as long as the controller can get you on radar and is n't overworked ) . We also have a pretty robust Class E airspace nationwide . Because of this the FAA probably sees no need to designate specific " Class F " regions where IFR flights can get the equivalent of " Flight Following " : If you 're VFR you can usually get flight following if you want it , and if you 're IFR you should have no trouble staying in controlled airspace ( Class A , B , C , D , or E ) for your entire route of flight .
$ V _ { MO } $ is a " maximum operating speed " . It is one of many " <URL> " defined for an aircraft that limit operation at various flight phases . All V-speeds are <URL> ¹ . The $ V _ { MO } $ is the maximum permitted speed for the aircraft . This includes a safety margin , so pilots can reasonably fly near that speed . Exceeding it is not immediately dangerous , but as it reduces safety margins , is an incident that should be investigated . There is another speed , $ V _ { NE } $ , the " never exceed speed " , which is somewhat higher and which marks the point where things start to get dangerous . When the aircraft exceeds $ V _ { NE } $ , <URL> may develop that will destroy the aircraft and/or important parts may break off as the <URL> becomes higher than what they are designed for . Also these speeds have their <URL> counterparts ² , $ M _ { MO } $ and $ M _ { NE } $ . At high altitude , the same indicated airspeed ( IAS ) corresponds to much higher true air-speed , since indicated airspeed decreases with pressure , while the same Mach number corresponds to slightly lower true air-speed , since speed of sound only depends on temperature . So at high altitudes , the Mach limits are reached first while at low altitudes the IAS limits are . Exceeding the $ M _ { NE } $ has different effect , though also dangerous . Above that speed flow separation occurs above the wing due to supersonic speed of the flow . This leads to loss of lift and significant down-pitching moment ( a.k.a <URL> ) , which aircraft not designed for supersonic flight may not have enough elevator authority to compensate . ¹ The airspeeds are given as <URL> , the speed measured by pitot probes , so they can be directly compared to the indication in cockpit ( aircraft with <URL> ( " glass cockpit " ) usually correct those measurement errors that can be estimated , showing so called <URL> ) . However it may not be just a simple number but may be tabulated depending on other parameters . In particular $ V _ { NE } $ and $ V _ { MO } $ may depend on altitude , because <URL> depends on <URL> and at lower density ( due to lower pressure at altitude ) the same TAS corresponds to lower <URL> / <URL> / <URL> . ² Mach number is true airspeed as fraction of speed of sound . In this case the limiting factor is formation of shockwaves due to the flow speed locally exceeding speed of sound around some parts of the aircraft .
Because that wing is a cantilevered beam which is now supporting over half the weight of the jet on it . This causes the wing to flex , much like a leaf spring , when loaded . While fascinating to watch this is benign and designed to do this . In addition , this wing flexure helps to absorb bumps , air turbulence , dampen flutter , maneuvering loadings , etc. much like the coil springs in your car 's suspension do . Do n't be alarmed to see this . Those wing structures have been tested to far worse loads and conditions that you will ever see on a revenue carrying flight before failure occurs . A 747 's wingtips can flex by as much as 12ft up/down during flight . Newer composite wings are capable of much greater flexure . This was video shot of Boeing 's destructive testing on the 777 wing . Note the wingtip flexes by as much as 20ft upward at a loading over 150 % that of its design load limits before structural failure occurred .
Dry thrust usually means the non-augumented thrust i.e. thrust without the use of afterburners or liquid injection . The maximum thrust produced by jet engines w/o afterburner is sometimes called military thrust . The thrust of a jet eingine can be increased by using methods like water ( + methonol ) injection ( mostly in older turbojet engines ) or by using afterburners ( reheat ) . In such cases , the ( higher ) thrust produced is called wet thrust .
I 'm not a pilot myself , but can provide some links here : <URL> <URL> <URL> You may also ask on <URL> , which is more suited for this kind of questions that are a lot based on individual opinions . Here is an interesting article from Vanity Fair , that I often cite , about the increasing automation of aircraft , and the related impact on crew members : <URL> . The article starts with " Airline pilots were once the heroes of the skies . Today , in the quest for safety , airplanes are meant to largely fly themselves " , which gives the tone .
When ACARS communicates via INMARSAT satellite ( other options are VHF or HF to ground stations ) , the satellite can ping the receiver on the aircraft and determine the distance from the delay of the reply . The satellite is geostationary , meaning that it is a fixed point 35786 km above the earth . Based on the distance from the satellite you can calculate a circle where the aircraft must be on . This has been done for MH370 . <URL> Since the geostationary orbit is so high , a single satellite covers a large portion of the earth . Only a single satellite covered the MH370 flight .
Then It used to matter , because aircraft would sometimes approach the carrier at a lower altitude than even the flight deck before pulling up briefly and practically stalling onto the deck , allowing for a lower speed landing . Similarly , the higher flight deck would give an extra couple of metres of acceleration if over-shooting the flight deck and having to go around . As such a high-decked carrier gave a little more margin for error . Now It makes virtually no difference - modern aircraft approach at the same angle and airspeed regardless of the height of the deck ( within reason ) . They also perform approaches significantly more accurately . If anything , the higher deck could be considered a ( very ) slight disadvantage , as it may display a higher rolling moment than a low deck carrier . This is unlikely to cause any issues , however .
Aeroscraft is their brand name . It does not mean anything generally . The general terms are : " Aircraft " ( but not " aerocraft " ) means any machine capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere . " <URL> " is a lighter-then-air aircraft . That is it has large shell filled with gas with lower density than air and uses buoyant force on that for lift . This includes balloons , hot-air or gas filled , tethered balloons and airships . " <URL> " , or " dirigible " is an aerostat equipped with propulsion that allows it to move on it 's own ( as opposed to balloons that are tethered or carried by wind ) .
<URL> , the World Meteorological Organization defines tropopause as The boundary between the troposphere and the stratosphere , where an abrupt change in lapse rate usually occurs . It is defined as the lowest level at which the lapse rate decreases to 2 ˚C / km or less , provided that the average lapse rate between this level and all higher levels within 2 km does not exceed 2 ˚C / km . Occasionally , a second tropopause may be found if the lapse rate above the first tropopause exceeds 3 ˚C / km . The tropopause height varies with latitude and season . The variation with latitude , based on annual mean conditions , is shown below : <URL> Image from <URL> Troposphere can be identified only if the <URL> ( the rate at which atmospheric temperature decreases with increase in altitude ) in the stratosphere and troposphere are known . Also , weather phenomena like thunderstorms shift the tropopause . As a result , the height of the tropopause is forecast based on localized weather conditions , and is not a fixed boundary . The International Standard atmosphere , however , defines tropopause as lying between ~ 11,000 and 20,000 meters ( geopotential altitude ) above MSL .
Most instructors say that ( in a low wing plane ) you should see the runway on the tip of the wing or between the tip and 1/4 in the wing . AOPA has a <URL> . This <URL> ( page 3 ) . This leg should be approximately 1/2 to 1 mile out from the landing runway , and at the specified traffic pattern altitude .
end question
start question
Can I work on my own airplane without formal mechanic 's training ?
<URL> contains the information of what you can and can not do to an aircraft and what requirements you must have . If you are a certificated Private Pilot ( as in not a sport pilot ) , there are quite a few things you can do to an aircraft you own , that is not used for commercial purposes . Like : Replace wheel bearings Remove/repair/reinstall wheels Replace safety wiring and cotter keys Service landing gear struts by adding oil/air Lubrication not requiring disassembly of non-structural items like cover plates , cowlings , and fairings Simple fabric patches not requiring rib stitching or removing structural parts or control surfaces Replenishing hydraulic fluid Refinishing decorative coating of fuselage and other parts Repairing upholstery without disassembly Simple repairs to fairings , etc Replacing side windows Replacing safety belts Replacing seats or seat parts with approved replacements Troubleshooting and repairing broken circuits in landing light wing circuits Replacing bulbs , reflectors , and lenses of position and landing lights Replacing wheels and skis where no weight and balance computation is required Replacing cowling not requiring removing the propeller or disconnecting flight controls Replacing or cleaning spark plugs and setting gap clearance Replacing any hose connection except hydraulic connections Replacing prefabricated fuel lines Cleaning or replacing fuel and oil strainers or filter elements Replacing and servicing batteries And others <URL> However , note that it has to be your airplane , and it ca n't be used commercially ( which I think includes offering it for rent ) . There is very little you can do in the way of avionics ( read # 31 and # 32 in the reference I gave ) . The fun thing to note is that although a PPL is required , the PPL training does not give any special attention to any of these items , and therefore really somebody off the street is technically just as qualified as a private pilot , but the private pilot is the only one authorized to do the work ( provided they own the plane ) . When I got my PPL , nobody walked me through replacing cotter pins or anti-back-out devices ... Edit These rules though may be different when you get into experimental category aircraft but I ca n't source it now and will do more research and edit when I can clarify .
It depends . As always . If thrust is high enough , why not ? <URL> is a regular part of aerobatic performances , and the fuselage is producing almost * all the needed lift . This requires Enough speed , A low ratio of aircraft mass to fuselage side area , and Enough rudder deflection to trim the aircraft in a sufficiently high sidelip angle . For horizontal flight your installed thrust must be sufficient to compensate for the high drag in this attitude . This should be no problem with powerful propeller aircraft if their fuel system keeps them supplied at this attitude . Jets must make sure that the sideslip angle can be tolerated by the intake . The smoke from the exhaust indicates that this biplane flies horizontally . Yes , it is a large model airplane ( not man-carrying , but almost big enough for that ) . But the laws of physics do n't change with scale . For an example of a full-size aircraft doing a knife edge , see <URL> . Thanks go to @romkyns for pointing this out to me ! Note the rudder deflection to keep it at this angle of sideslip . Direction is controlled with the elevator . At this rate of sideslip the propeller thrust contributes to overall lift as well , however , the vertical adds a substantial downforce in order to trim the aircraft and the fuselage has to supply the remaining lift . * Almost means that the propeller will carry some of the weight , but the large downforce on the vertical needs to be compensated , too . In sum , the lift contributed by the fuselage is very close to the weight of the plane .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
Wings may be tough to come by as they generally last the life of the plane and can be re-skinned/fixed if need be so they are not scrapped all that frequently . You can try a used parts dealer like <URL> or <URL> but they generally deal in air worthy parts which will not be cheap . Here is a guy <URL> he " has wings " , you may want to give him a call and check other part out <URL> adds . Your best bet may be to wonder on down to your local GA field and ask some questions at the FBO or maintenance facility if there is one . Its more than likely someone has a wing or wing section that is no longer air worthy from some accident or the like . You may even just see a junked wing sitting in a field behind a hangar ... STC 's are specific to part or aircraft/engine so testing on a generic wing may not be a good basis ( depending on what you are doing ) you may want to get the wing from the aircraft you intend to STC .
The restriction you 're talking about does exist , but there 's no explicit wording for it . It 's described in <URL> : An applicant for a certificate or rating may use an aircraft with operating characteristics that preclude the applicant from performing all of the tasks required for the practical test . However , the applicant 's certificate or rating , as appropriate , will be issued with an appropriate limitation . One of the most fundamental tasks in the Sport Pilot PTS is ( you wo n't find it as a discrete task , but if you look at the PTS the phrase " while maintaining coordinated flight " occurs multiple times ) , and an Ercoupe without rudder pedals relieves the applicant of that responsibility because the aileron/rudder interconnect basically does it for you . I 'm not sure exactly how this works for Sport Pilots , but as you can not demonstrate to the examiner that you can " maintain coordinated flight " they could reasonably apply the same restriction to your Sport Pilot certificate as they would to a Private Pilot certificate ( " Limited to aircraft without rudder pedals " ) . You would need to demonstrate to a DPE or Examiner that you can operate an aircraft with rudder pedals at some later date to remove the restriction ( it is a restriction on the certificate so the only way to remove it is to have the certificate amended/reissued/replaced ) . The easiest way to avoid the entire issue is to prepare for and take your practical test in an aircraft with rudder pedals . You can do everything in the Ercoupe and then switch to the Cub for a week to brush up on systems and polish your maneuvers in that plane and get used to using your feet .
You have 3 questions here ( Or maybe 2 because the first and second are very similar ) 1 and 2 : Flares are some sort of burning compound that generates a significant amount of heat to distract ( hopefully ) an Infra-Red guided missile . They attract the IR missiles because the amount of IR energy created by them may be greater than that of the exhaust , which is what IR missiles follow . 3 The flares are deployed when the plane detects the presence of an IR missile . ( <URL> ) Once the presence of a " live " IR missile is indicated , flares are released by the aircraft in an attempt to decoy the missile ; some systems are automatic , while others require manual jettisoning of the flares . They also <URL> too .
If you are asking about all or some of the masks as your title suggests , it <URL> . One such example from 2008 is <URL> . After the accident , numerous passengers said that some oxygen masks did not deploy , whilst others had deteriorated elastic . Consequently , it was reported that one passenger smashed a panel of the ceiling to attempt to gain access to the masks . It was stated that these passengers were deprived of oxygen until the plane was lowered to a breathable altitude . Best thing to do is to stay clam , and to breathe slowly/normally ( deep calm breaths ) . Worst case scenario if a person is a smoker and obese , they 'll pass out but will regain consciousness when the pilots reach a lower altitude . In a rapid depressurization emergency , the pilots act quickly to descend , it will be a matter of <URL> until the air would have sufficient oxygen again . Pilots have different mask systems that should be tested routinely . Related : <URL> <URL>
There are two problems : First , at higher temperatures , the air is less dense ; therefore there is less oxygen ( by mass ) in every cubic metre of it ; therefore more air must be ingested by the engine ( by volume ) for the same quantity of fuel to be completely burnt . If the intake flow rate of air is fixed , then less fuel can be burnt and less power developed compared to a colder air temperature . The second problem is that the lower density of air reduces the lift generated by the aircraft 's wings at any speed . To make up for this the aircraft can travel faster . In practise this means that aircraft operating in " hot and high " conditions -- altitude also affects air density -- will require longer runways to take off . If it gets too hot then the aircraft might not have enough runway to get airborne . For safety reasons the runway must be long enough for the aircraft to come to a stop if the commander decides to reject the take off at the last moment . But fast , heavy aircraft take a long time to stop ; so this means the runway must be even longer . If the aircraft is lightly loaded then it is not such a problem ; there is less mass to accelerate and a lower speed must be obtained for take off . Thus a short flight simply takes a bit longer but still gets off the ground . But for AUH-SFO , this is a very long flight and will require a great deal of fuel to be taken onboard ( at a guess I would imagine something on the very rough order of 80 tons ) . The specifics will vary by aircraft , and by how much is on them . <URL>
Generally speaking a pilot can ( physically ) do whatever they want : ATC does n't have a remote control . If you push the throttles forward and pull back on the yoke you will take off , no matter what mean things the folks in the tower are shouting at you over the radio . Practically speaking doing so can get you into trouble : You may be met in the air by planes with more guns than yours , or projectiles from the ground may be fired in such a way as to intersect your flight path ( " You might get intercepted or shot down by very annoyed military types . " ) -- even if that does n't happen you may face administrative or civil action for ignoring ATC instructions in the jurisdiction where you did this . I 'm not sure what the ATC policies are in Turkey , but the US FAA has a phrase specifically for this : ( you 'll find it in <URL> ) . The emergency authority of a pilot is also recognized worldwide ( at least in ICAO states - you 'll find it in Annex 2 , 2.3.1 , conveniently quoted <URL> ) , so if the pilot in command deems that remaining on the ground constitutes an emergency they can violate regulations to the extent necessary to meet the emergency ( i.e. forego getting a clearance and take off even if ATC is saying not to ) .
I would model the energy flows between kinetic and potential energy . Start with a full bucket of potential energy plus the appropriate speed and drain kinetic energy away over time depending on flight speed . To know how much energy is lost to drag , you need to <URL> using two components : <URL> , which grows with the square of airspeed , and <URL> , which drops with the square of airspeed . If your drag is the sum of both , its minimum will be at some moderate speed . I plotted the drag components for a glider below , but since the physics are the same for a paper airplane , this plot should do for now . The nonlinear behavior of the induced drag curve at low speed is due to flow separation , and something very similar will happen for a paper airplane . The important thing is : The drag curve has a minimum . The energy loss over time is drag $ D$ times speed $ v $ . This energy $ E$ has to come from the reduction of height $ h $ over time $ t $ : $ $ \ frac { \ delta E } { \ delta t } = \ frac { \ delta ( m \ cdot g \ cdot h ) } { \ delta t } = D \ cdot v = m \ cdot g \ cdot v_z $ $ with $ m $ the mass of the paper airplane , $ g $ gravitational acceleration and $ h $ its height above ground . Only $ h $ changes over time , so derivation is easy and the derivative of $ h $ is $ v_z $ , the vertical speed . For picking a realistic drag it helps to rephrase the equation above by introducing lift $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z $ . $ n_z $ is the load factor and is approximately one in straight flight . The ratio between lift and drag for a paper airplane is somewhere between 4 and 10 - just pick a number which results in a realistic simulation . To calculate the sink speed $ v_z $ as a function of flight speed $ v $ use this formula : $ $ v_z = \ frac { c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot v ^ 3 \ cdot \ rho } { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } + \ frac { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } { v \ cdot \ pi \ cdot b ^ 2 \ cdot \ rho } $ $ S is the wing area of the paper airplane and $ b $ its wing span . $ \ rho $ is air density , and for the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ you should pick a number which makes the paper airplane look realistic . Start maybe with 0.05 .
Basically , there are two ways . One is easy but imprecise , and the other is hard but more precise . First the easy one : Look at other aircraft and estimate how much winglets affect lift and drag . Make sure to do this at several lift coefficients ; winglets help much more at high lift coefficients . Do n't forget to account for the added mass of the winglets and their added friction over their surface area . Bonus points for estimating losses due to sideslip . The hard way is to do a numerical simulation of the wing . Since you want to know what difference the winglets make , you can focus on a comparison between a regular and a winglet-equipped wing and transfer the effect to the full airplane . For the lift and induced drag effects , you will at least need to divide the wing into panels and simultaneously solve the <URL> equations for bound vortices at the quarter chord of each panel plus the trailing free vortices with control points at the three-quarter point where local flow must be parallel with local wing inclination . Make sure you use a method which does better than to assume that all panels lie in one plane ! I have no experience with Simulink - I guess there are libraries around for vortex lattice or even Euler codes , but if you are free to choose your tools , maybe it is worth to take a look at <URL> . This should work out of the box for your project , and all you need to add is a proper input file .
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
I suppose it depends on what you mean by " land " -- For our purposes I 'll define landing as putting the aircraft on the ground and decelerating to taxi speed , while meeting the other requirements of a " good landing " ( shiny side up ; rubber side down ; aircraft , pilot , and passengers in reusable condition ) . How fast can I go ? Generally you want to put the wheels on the ground at ( or at least very close to ) the aircraft 's stall speed and then decelerate to a safe taxi speed . You can certainly force the wheels onto the ground at higher speeds , but you 're still an aerial vehicle at that point and you have to bleed off the excess speed to transition to a ground ( taxiing ) vehicle before you can leave the runway . As a general rule of thumb your final approach speed should be about 1.3 times stall speed for your selected landing configuration so you can get down to taxi speed reasonably quickly . Putting that into some kind of context , a normal approach speed ( with full flaps ) in the Piper Cherokee I fly is around ~ 65 knots . A no-flaps approach is ~ 75 knots . Looking a little deeper , you can fly the approach as fast as you want ( within reason ) as long as you 're comfortable doing that and confident in your ability to bleed off the extra speed with precision . At my home field I 've been chased down final by jets often enough that I know I can maintain 85 + knots until about a half-mile final , at which point I can reliably dump the extra speed , put the wheels down in the touchdown zone , and decelerate to taxi speed in time to make a " normal " turn-off . I also know that if it seems like I will need to carry more than about 85 knots by the half-mile point I 'm better off telling ATC I 'll go around and land after the faster traffic because I may not be able to safely decelerate and turn off the runway with enough room for the traffic behind me to land . Keeping your speed up is really only helpful if you do n't botch the landing . What 's the procedure for doing this ? The procedure is basically " Keep your speed up until short final " -- It 's something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily . If you elect to land without flaps the procedure is the same as the " no-flap landings " you should have done in training , and in most small aircraft that should be a non-event . Again , this is something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily , and it 's a technique you should be familiar with in case your flap controls ever fail . What are the consequences ? Well , the good part is you 'll be helping out ATC and the traffic behind you : if you can keep your speed up ATC will be better able to maintain separation between you and the faster aircraft behind you , instead of having to send them around or vector / re-sequence them for spacing . It 's also fun to do this kind of thing occasionally , and helps keep your skills sharp . The bad part is that any time you 're not flying a " normal " approach you 're accepting some additional level of risk . In this case you 're also touching down faster , which means more energy to dissipate ( hopefully through braking , but if something goes wrong you 'll be dissipating that energy through impact , and as dvnrrs pointed out the energy you need to get rid of is proportional to the square of your velocity so the number goes up fast ) . Remember that ultimately flying a fast final or touching down in an alternate ( faster ) configuration is a courtesy to ATC and the traffic you 're mixing with . If you 're comfortable doing it everyone will appreciate your help , but if you are n't comfortable with it just fly a normal approach and let ATC know you are <URL> to fly faster -- the worst thing ATC will do is ask you to go around and re-sequence you with more space next time .
I 'll have a go at answering this . It 's confused by the UK 's transition from the JAA to EASA licensing . My JAR-PPL ( A ) , issued in 2011 , is valid for 5 years so yes , I assume yours will have expired . My FRTOL is valid for 10 years so presumably yours will have expired too . The requirements are hidden in <URL> ( [ Deep breath ] Section 7 , Part B ( Schedule 7 ) Part C , Section 2 , Paragraph 9 - ( 1 ) ( c ) ) . Renewing an expired licence ( single-engined/single pilot aeroplane ) seems to require meeting FCL .740 . A of Part-FCL ( type rating ) and Appendix 9 to Part -- FCL ( skills test ) . I believe this effectively means you 'll have to undertake training to ensure you can pass the skills test , pass it and pay to have your licence reissued . ( Not forgetting the medical . ) You will end-up with a part-FCL PPL ( which do not expire ) . I 'm not sure about having to retake the FRTOL tests , I think you may just have to re-sit the theory ( PPL comms ) , fill out a form and pay but the answer is probably in CAP 804 somewhere ! The easiest/best thing to do would be to pop-in to your local friendly FTO and discuss with them ...
Nothing in the regulations seems to preclude it - but there are <URL> per the FAA : An individual who is a United States citizen , A partnership each of whose partners is an individual who is a U.S. citizen , A corporation or association : organized under the laws of the U.S. or a State , the District of Columbia , or a U.S. territory or possession , of which the president and at least two-thirds of the board of directors and other managing officers are U.S citizens , and in which at least 75 % of the voting interest is owned or controlled by persons that are U.S. citizens , An individual citizen of a foreign country lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the U.S. , A U.S. governmental unit or subdivision A non-U.S. citizen corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the U.S. or one of the States as long as the aircraft is based and primarily used in the U.S. ( 60 % of all flight hours must be from flights starting and ending within the U.S. ) ( emphasis added ) So Toyota could not buy an aircraft and register it to their main company in Japan on the US registry , nor could they buy &amp; register it under a US Subsidiary and subsequently fly it off to Japan to live out the rest of its days shuttling executives around Asia . A Toyota executive with Permanent Resident status could buy themselves a nice Cirrus and register it on the US Registry though .
The answer is : no , normal flights are not allowed under the canyon rim . If you look at the sectional chart , you see this notice : Searching through the CFR ( Title 14 , Part 91 ) brings up this <URL> - Special Flight Rules in the Vicinity of the Grand Canyon National Park , AZ. . Ther is also <URL> of Part 93 . The Subpart U regulations seem to be the most current applicable regulations ( please correct me if I am wrong ) . The rule applies to everything under 18,000 feet MSL within an area around the park ( like the chart says ) . Except in an emergency or if otherwise necessary for safety of flight , or unless otherwise authorized by the Flight Standards District Office for a purpose listed in 93.309 , no person may operate an aircraft in the Special Flight Rules Area within the following flight-free zones : It then describes the four zones : Desert View , Bright Angel , Toroweap/Shinumo , Sanup Flight-free Zone . You ca n't fly through these , but between them are " corridors " in which you are allowed to fly above a certain altitude . See <URL> for locations of the Flight-Free Zones and corridors . There are also minimum sector altitudes for different areas , including the corridors , which are going to be the main thing preventing you from flying very low . The altitudes are different for commercial air tours versus transient and general aviation . Also : no person may operate an aircraft within 500 feet of any terrain or structure located between the north and south rims of the Grand Canyon . There are also noise limits depending on the aircraft type . For some info on the background of these rules , see this <URL> .
In <URL> <URL> , the High Court of England and Wales held that , at common law , the right of a landowner to the airspace above their land was " to such height as was necessary for the ordinary use and enjoyment of his land and the structures upon it " . As another answer has suggested , the use of UK airspace is now regulated by statute . <URL> says : No action shall lie in respect of trespass or in respect of nuisance , by reason only of the flight of an aircraft over any property at a height above the ground which , having regard to wind , weather and all the circumstances of the case is reasonable , or the ordinary incidents of such flight , so long as the provisions of any Air Navigation Order and of any orders under section 62 above have been duly complied with and there has been no breach of section 81 below . In other words , you may fly an aircraft at a height that is reasonable , subject to any specific regulations . For example , rule 5 in <URL> prohibits low flying in certain circumstances , such as below 1,000 feet over a congested area of a city , although there are various exemptions to those rules . For the detail , consult the regulations . New regulations are due in early 2015 . What this means in terms of a landowner 's right is that : their rights do not extend beyond what is " necessary ... " in accordance with Bernstein of Leigh whatever the specific rules on aircraft may say additionally , the landowner 's rights are restricted by the CAA and the rules made under it , so that an aircraft that complies with the rules and flies no lower than is reasonable etc does not commit a trespass or nuisance .
Absolutely . In fact it 's not a bad idea to do so , if only to get some practice filing flight plans and using the system . In the US VFR flight plans are a search-and-rescue tool : They 're only used if your aircraft is overdue to give the rescue folks information to help plan the search . In your particular case I would file a flight plan that lists your home airport as your departure and destination , with the airport you intend to use for your touch-and-go landings as an intermediate waypoint . If you want to enter information on the nature of the flight ( training , touch-and-gos at XXXX , etc. ) in the remarks field you can do that too . Activate the flight plan when you depart , and close it when you return to your home airport . You can optionally also call Flight Service over the radio when you get to the touch-and-go airport to give them a position report and let them know you 've reached that waypoint ( I would do this on your way out of the area to return home , along with an ETA update if appropriate ) . As an alternative ( or in addition to the VFR flight plan ) you could get <URL> from the ATC facility responsible for your airspace . Be aware that they may drop you and ask you to squawk VFR while you shoot your touch-and-gos since you 'll probably be going off their radar , but you can always request service again when you start your return leg .
There is no requirement to have the certificate with you on board during flight . The holder of a radio authorization shall , at the request of an inspector appointed pursuant to the Act , show the radio authorization or a copy thereof to the inspector within 48 hours after the request . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
Why did the Ju-87 Stuka have a siren ?
<URL> : The B-1 [ variant ] was also fitted with " Jericho trumpets " , essentially propeller-driven sirens with a diameter of 0.7 m ( 2.3 ft ) mounted on the wing 's leading edge directly forward of the landing gear , or on the front edge of the fixed main gear fairing . This was used to weaken enemy morale and enhance the intimidation of dive-bombing . After the enemy became used to it , however , they were withdrawn . The devices caused a loss of some 20 -- 25 km/h ( 10-20 mph ) through drag . Instead , some bombs were fitted with whistles on the fin to produce the noise after release . So , yes , it was purely psychological and actually hindered the pilot by reducing air speed in ordinary flight and they were removed when they stopped having the psychological effect .
Generally , a compressor can not work efficiently at supersonic speed due to the shockwaves , the role of the <URL> and diffuser is to slow the air below Mach 1 . There is a similar need for a ramjet , so that the combustion can occur within the engine and produce thrust . The cone position and diffuser geometry are adjusted according to the airspeed . The overall shape of the diffuser is diverging . From <URL> , the diffuser decreases velocity and increases pressure according to : $ \ frac 1 \ rho \ ; dp = - \ mathrm V \ ;d \ mathrm V$ where $ \ rho $ is air density . Look at this video : <URL> for more details about how pressure and velocity are affected in a nozzle / a diffuser . Here is a summary : <URL> The J58 is turbojet within a ramjet . The forward section of the engine has a complex role . It adapts to a large range of speed ( 0 to Mach 3.2 ) and altitude ( 0 to 85,000 ft ) , and modifies the airflow to work either as turbojet , or as a ramjet , depending on the airspeed . <URL> Simplified adjustment of the airflow ( <URL> ) . Actual mechanism used at different airspeed ranges in the J58 : <URL> ( <URL> )
First , according to one <URL> for the Cirrus SR-22 ( there are several versions out there ) , pulling the chute is the correct ditching procedure ( CAPS is the parachute system ) : Ditching Radio ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Transmit ( 121.5 MHz ) MAYDAY giving location and intentions Transponder ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... SQUAWK 7700 CAPS ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . ACTIVATE Airplane ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... EVACUATE Flotation Devices ... ... . . INFLATE WHEN CLEAR OF AIRPLANE Second , the conditions were <URL> to be windy with high waves : Weather conditions at the time of the rescue were seas of 9 to 12 feet and winds of 25 to 28 mph . Those would be tough conditions for ditching in . I 've read several times that when light aircraft ditch , the pilot and passengers usually survive the impact but they often struggle to exit the aircraft successfully . <URL> and <URL> explain in detail how difficult it can be to exit an aircraft in the water , even in good conditions . If the aircraft flips or cartwheels then exiting would be extremely tough and the rough sea would make it much worse . Since the parachute lowers the aircraft straight down in a more or less level attitude , the chance of flipping over is greatly reduced . The downside is that you no longer have control of where you touch down relative to the waves , so you might land just in front of one but that still seems like a good option compared to the risk of flipping the aircraft on impact .
MiG-23 For the MiG-23 , it was manual . [ The ] MiG-23 had a completely manual wing sweep control . But there was no gauge to indicate optimum wing position for the surrounding conditions . " You had to manually put the wings into position to safely fly the airplane , " [ ... ] " They had a very nice gauge that showed where the wings were commanded to , where the wings actually were if they were still in motion , and what the Mach limit was associated with that wingsweep position . " -- <URL> p. 176 From <URL> we learn the sweep steps were 16 ° , 45 ° , and 72 ° -- for one of the variants at least -- which makes it easy to find that gauge . Here it is magnified below with the limiting Mach number ( M2 .35 ) and Velocity ( 1400 km/h indicated ; 756 KIAS ) for the current selected max sweep of 72 ° . <URL> ( <URL> ) Su-17 / 20/22 It started as a two-position wing , then it was upgraded1 so that the wing can stop anywhere between 30 ° and 63 ° . This improved the flight range . Below , КРЫЛО means wing . And ОТКЛ means off , or deactivate -- ОТКЛЮЧИТЬ . This leads me to conclude it too was manual despite the advanced avionics the Su-17 family carried . <URL> ( <URL> ) The wing control switch and position indicator are on the left glareshield . 1 Source : <URL> Bonus : <URL> showing the pilot using that switch
TesterMen Tester provided some very good information , which I think requires a bit of explanation . The older version of the regulation seems to require fuel dump if MTOW is more than 105 percent of MLW . <URL> have weight limits meeting that requirement , so based on that regulation , it seems like fuel dump would be required . But as the Boeing info shows , none of the 737 versions have fuel dump capability . <URL> to allow a plane to not have a fuel dump system as long as it can meet certain performance requirements . The <URL> includes this as well . However , this does not explain why the 737-100/200 , which were certified before that amendment , do n't have fuel dump capability , when the MTOW listed by the Boeing info above are 108 % and 112 % of the MLW . <URL> is that the original versions of the aircraft had lower MTOW , which met the 105 % rule . Newer engines allowed the MTOW to be increased , but as rbp mentioned , MLW is based on landing gear and structural limits , so it did not change . The FAA amended the regulation with the required performance option to allow the higher MTOW without requiring fuel dump capability . Also , as explained in answers to <URL> , planes can land over MLW , there just may be required inspections . Note that the similar-sized A320 family <URL> .
The idea that missiles will be all a fighter aircraft needs was prevalent in the late Fifties . The <URL> Phantom II carried initially only missiles , but at the start of the Vietnam war this turned out to be inadequate . The long-range missiles back then were rather unreliable , and in a real conflict things turn out always different than anticipated . As <URL> said , the plan is the first casualty of war . F-4s frequently found themselves in close-combat situations for which they were inadequately prepared . Even today , a gun gives the pilot a lot more options , and if the situation is unclear , close-up visual inspection before shooting is still vital to avoid <URL> . From the F-4C on , F-4s were equipped with a gun .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
Just off the top of my head , It would take up space that could be used for three or four paying passengers . This would result in increased ticket prices for everybody and the non-smoking majority have no incentive to subsidise a smoking cubicle . It would require a ventilation system that would prevent smoky air from getting into the rest of the cabin , which would add weight and complexity . It 's a fire risk and a small fire from some idiot disposing of paper in the ashtray could spread ; it would be hard to detect such a fire early because you could n't just put a smoke detector in the smoking cubicle . ( I guess an infra-red detector would work . ) Almost nobody tries to smoke in the lavatory so reducing the occurrence of an event that hardly ever happens is n't worth much . Rates of smoking are decreasing in most Western countries , so demand for such a cubicle is already falling . Anti-smoking legislation is often aimed at worker protection : who 's going to clean the smoking cubicle and what equipment will they need ? I doubt there 's significant pressure , even from smokers , for such a service to be provided .
First let 's and define what " too many cases " means in terms of cold , hard , unfeeling numbers ( as best we can ) : <URL> . There are 16 crashes listed . I 'll further add Air France 447 ( which took " a long time " to find ) , and MH370 ( which is currently unrecovered ) , bringing the total to 18 . As Wikipedia admits their list is incomplete I 'll double-and-round that in the name of being pessimistically conservative and say that since 1965 there have been 50 cases where it has taken " a long time " to recover the flight recorders ( or they were never recovered ) . <URL> . Even if we assume the CVR/FDR data would n't be useful for all of them there are still many hundreds ( if not thousands ) of incidents since 1965 where the cockpit voice recorder and/or flight data recorders have been recovered along with other wreckage or damaged airframes - often within a matter of days or hours ( as soon as investigators can get to the wreckage ) . That 's a pretty good track record . One could certainly argue ( legitimately ) that " one unrecovered flight recorder is too many " , and indeed the goal is to always find the recorders and analyze their contents . If we 're being realistic about this though we 're going to have to accept the fact that sometimes you 're just not going to recover the recorders : Aircraft crashes are messy , high-energy affairs and often involve inhospitable recovery environments like " the bottom of the ocean " . If someone has better statistics close at hand I would love to review them and update this answer . Otherwise , it should be obvious that the above is an extremely rough off-the-cuff estimate , and should not be taken for any research or investigative purposes . In case it 's not obvious - well I just said it . Now , to the meat of your question : Theoretically you could include a locator beacon in the CVR or FDR - incorporating a <URL> into the black box design is possible ( you could even add a GPS to encode the device 's location , though it would be of limited additional value with the inherent location accuracy of the 406MHz locator signal and satellite search system ) . So why do n't we do it ? As <URL> , airliners are already required to carry emergency locator transmitters - in any case where such a beacon would function including one in the CVR/FDR would be redundant with existing equipment in the aircraft . Further practical problems arise when you consider <URL> -- These things need to survive a crash ( up to 3400 Gs ) , crush forces , fire , and immersion in water under pressure . Your typical distress beacon requires an antenna and a view of the sky , both of which would be in serious doubt after a crash : The black box may be inside or under wreckage , required external antennas may have been torn off or burned away , and distress beacon signals are unlikely to be received if the recorder is under water ( this is why current generation recorders have sonar " pingers " to assist in locating them ) . To easily illustrate the sort of problem radio devices have with " stuff " between them and the sky , try this experiment : Take your cell phone , wrap it in aluminum foil to simulate the skin of a plane , put it in a zip-lock bag , and take it to the bottom of a pool . I bet you wo n't be able to get a call on that phone . Given the numerous failure modes ( all of which are fairly high-probability in a real-world crash scenario ) , and the fact that we usually have a pretty good idea of where an aircraft is when a crash does happen , there is n't much to be gained by including additional locator technology in the CVR/FDR designs at this time - it just adds more components that would need periodic testing and recertification to ensure they are functioning properly and would activate appropriately in the event of a crash , while not appreciably improving our odds of finding the recorders .
Low density altitudes mean your engine generates more power , and your wings generate more lift . Everything is better with low density altitudes , right ? The potential danger in low density altitudes is that your engine generates more power than it can handle . Even without exceeding the maximum rated RPM and manifold pressure , you can exceed the rated power of an engine under low density altitude conditions . At low temperatures the air becomes denser . At standard sea level conditions air has a temperature of 15 degrees Celcius and a density of 1.225 kg per cubic meter . When the temperature is -30 degrees Celcius , the density increases to 1.452 kg per cubic meter . The equivalent altitude where this density is found under standard atmosphere conditions would be about -5900 ft. This is called the density altitude . When air with these properties enters the combustion chamber of your engine and is combusted to the normal exhaust temperature it expands ( increases in pressure ) far more that air normally would , resulting in excessive power . This <URL> says the following about the risks associated with low density altitudes : Do not overboost supercharged engines . This is easy to do because at very low density altitude , the engine " thinks " it is operating as much as 8,000 feet below sea level in certain situations . Care should be exercised in operating normally aspirated engines . Power output increases at about 1 % for each ten degrees of temperature below that of standard air . At -40 degree F , an engine will develop 10 percent more than rated power even though RPM and MP limits are not exceeded .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
Not according to the authors of <URL> <URL> Despite impressive technological achievements and great expectations all around , the service 's business performance ultimately proved an abject failure . In the ten years before Verizon finally pulled the plug , Airfone generated only 50 million total calls , a fraction of the calls carried daily by cellular companies . While the Airfone service was heavily used when bad weather caused significant delays , the system 's utilization at other times was extremely low . A typical plane was equipped with as many as 60 phones . From these , the average large jet generated fewer than 100 calls per day in about 16 hours of flying time . As a result , the expensive system , with its heavy load of fixed costs , remained idle well over 99 % of the time . ... While Airfone claimed that some customers ' monthly bills topped out at $ 4,000 , there were not nearly enough of them to sustain the service 's sky-high fixed costs . ... Within a few years of the service 's launch , airlines started to remove the expensive phone infrastructure from their cabins , since the Airfone cost them more in increased fuel consumption ( because of the system 's weight ) than it generated revenues through their revenue sharing arrangement with Verizon . My emphasis .
How Boeing 747 is called Jumbo Jet ? The <URL> is the world 's first wide-body aircraft . For a long time , it was the world 's largest passenger aircraft1 . When Boeing was designing the 747 in mid-1960s , it expected that in the near future <URL> would become the norm . Hence , there would not be a need for the passenger version of 747 . Because of this , 747s were designed in a way that they can be easily converted into freighters . <URL> , being one of the first customers of 747 , wanted to fit two rows of cargo containers2 , instead of one . This meant that the fuselage had to be at least 16 feet wide , wider than any airliner at that time . This would have worked fine for cargo , but it would make loading and unloading passengers very time-consuming . To accommodate this , Boeing engineers designed two aisles , which ran parallel through the length of the aircraft , hence the term <URL> was coined . When the press noticed the huge size , they described it with the catchy term Jumbo Jet . It is also known as Queen of the Skies but that is not common . Do other airplanes have nicknames ? Airbus A380 dubbed as superjumbo by media . The only A380 sold as a business jet is called <URL> . Although there are n't official nicknames of airplanes , almost all airplanes earned <URL> . <URL> contains nicknames for mostly military aircraft . 1 <URL> as world 's largest passenger airplane in 2007 . 2 At that time , cargo containers were cubes that measured 8 feet ( 2.44 m ) per side .
Pilot here ( with Cessna 152 hours ) as well as an engineer who made it most of the way to an Airframe and Powerplant technician license at one point in life . There are several reasons that conspire to produce ' unusable fuel ' : Fuel tanks on airplanes have complex shapes - they include baffles and other walls ( with holes in them ) to prevent oscillations from building up during in-flight movement . Sometimes these baffles are even engineered into the tanks late in the design cycle as testing finds oscillation issues . These baffles result in ' geometric trapping ' of fuel in nooks and crannies . Drawing fuel from a fuel tank is more complicated in a plane - cars are pretty much flat with minor tilts while airframes can have all sorts of odd and sustained directions that the fuel wants to go due to acceleration . Imagine an extended tilted spiral while descending - that fuel experiences far more lateral acceleration over a longer time period that a car would have . Getting the fuel system to pull fuel out from these different angles is challenging ( note that I 've picked a non-aerobatic maneuver for which the Cessna 152 of your question is qualified here ) . All of this is a cost/complexity tradeoff - solutions exist for 1 and 2 above - fighter jets use fuel bladders that have pressure bladders arranged to squeeze the fuel out so that they can get almost all the fuel even at high G-forces and unusual angles . Aerobatic planes have similarly more expensive and complicated systems than the old and cheap Cessna 152 . There are other considerations as well , but mostly it comes down to whether the plane in question can justify the cost and effort to get every last drop of fuel . Things get even more complicated in rockets - the moon rockets ( properly the Saturn 5 although it was an upper stage specifically ) had special extra engines called ullage motors whose only job was to give the stage a little boost in space to push the fuel towards the rear of the rocket so that the main motors could draw fuel and start . Addendum edit : @supercat below - the definition of unusable fuel is set by federal aviation regulation part 23 , section 959 ( <URL> ) and basically is the worst case under " intended operation " for the particular plane . Since the Cessna 152 is not aerobatically rated , for example , the unused fuel is defined as the fuel level where SOME intended maneuver would be capable of causing a fuel system error . In practice , especially in flat level flight , some of that unusable fuel would be available for use although you are not supposed to plan to use it in your flight planning .
The prototype aircraft had small " blocks " ( more like wedges ) which were used to prevent the control surfaces moving in the wind and potentially damaging the control surfaces , or even moving the aircraft on the ground . A bit like putting chocks under the wheels to stop the aircraft rolling . These were not removed when the aircraft was taken on a test flight , so the control surfaces could not move . Essentially , they were " fixed " in an approximately neutral position . Imagine if you could n't move your steering wheel in your car because someone had put wedges next to your front wheels to prevent them turning : that 's basically the situation the pilots were dealing with , but unlike you they ca n't just hit the brakes and stop once the aircraft is in the air . The Boeing 299 / B-17 are " taildragger " aircraft . As you can see in <URL> which I wo n't link directly due to the size , the aircraft 's nose is pointing quite sharply " up " when on the ground . Here 's a B-17 , which is n't identical to the Type 299 but is close enough that it makes no difference . Hopefully this gives you the visual to see why the aircraft will lift off at a high enough speed . <URL> When accelerating the nose being pointed slightly up gives a positive angle of attack for the wings . This means that once the aircraft gets above stall speed , it will naturally lift off into the air . Essentially , the aircraft is already pitched slightly up before any control surfaces are moved . That also means that when the aircraft takes off , it will climb - at least initially . With the locked elevators , there is no way to change the pitch angle of the aircraft , and the aircraft will either pitch up or down naturally - there is almost no chance that the aircraft would be perfectly trimmed by accident . In this case , the position the elevators were locked caused the aircraft to continue pitching up until it stalled . The crew had no way to correct this and the aircraft stalled out , rolled and crashed into the ground .
Thrust reversal is a complex system ( equals money ) and it uses significant amount of fuel ( also equals money ) . It is not a very efficient means to reduce the speed of a landing aircraft either , and other methods ( e.g. brakes or <URL> ) are much better suited . The biggest advantage of thrust reversal is that it cancels out the idle forward thrust working against the aircraft . Canceling out idle thrust is n't an issue on most fighters , as they have an engine nozzle that is open at ground idle to prevent any thrust from being produced . This nozzle probably also makes it a bit difficult to integrate Thrust reversals , but the <URL> proves it can be done .
Because it was something of a <URL> trademark since his early days . His first designs , the VariViggen and VariEze , had such a wing already , and apparently he saw no reason to optimize the wing of the Starship . <URL> Rutan VariEze in flight ( picture <URL> ) The only true innovation was a variable geometry canard , which he even <URL> . Being only 85 % scale , the performance of the Starship prototype was formidable , but once the real production aircraft had been designed with full compliance to airworthiness regulations , the Beech Starship turned out to be less impressive . The additional wetted surface produced more friction drag . Piaggio 's design is clearly superior . By the way , the idea behind the variable geometry canard was sound : In the landing configuration it would balance the additional lift from the fowler flaps on the wing . But the whole mechanism cost more in weight than the reduction in drag during cruise could save . <URL> Drawing from US Patent 4641800 .
Excerpt from <URL> Early in the preliminary design effort , Boeing had taken a careful look at the in service performance and accident history of previous airplane designs . The conclusions were interesting : In flight troubleshooting sometimes led to more serious problems , occasionally jeopardizing the safety of the flight . The flight engineer 's intense focus on systems problems often distracted one or both of the pilots , sometimes resulting in no one " flying the airplane . " Jet engine reliability was much higher than piston engines and they required little or no in flight troubleshooting or adjustment . Certain high workload periods during departure and arrival left little time for outside watch nor much time for handling abnormal events . In support of industry work to establish rational external vision requirements for transport airplanes , Boeing developed a computer model that determined the relative collision threat value of the visual space around the aircraft . Because airplanes are in motion and at a positive angle of attack , the computer model showed that the collision threat is concentrated generally forward and below the longitudinal axis of the airplane . In response to these findings the design team took a different approach to the 737 flight deck : A concerted effort would be made to simplify systems designs to increase reliability and to eliminate or greatly reduce the need for in flight trouble shooting . A Flight Deck design group would participate in all flight deck design decisions and would have considerable authority in the design of controls , indicators , and operating concepts across all airplane systems . Workload assessment would be used as an integral element of design to adjust functionality and location of equipment and controls . Operating procedures would be simplified and shortened to reduce distractions and provide ample time for outside watch . The autopilot would be improved to better support operations in the terminal area not just in cruise . The pilot 's stations would be designed to maximize external vision in the primary collision threat zone . So it seems that a lot of the changes that facilitated the movement to a 2-crew flight deck were procedural ones rather than engineering challenges . Jet engines by that time did n't require constant attention and adjustments . It seems that this movement towards a reduced cockpit count was the result of " too many cooks in the kitchen " , and while not explicitly mentioned it seems like <URL> was a driving factor ( Edit : or at least they wanted to prevent something like that , turns out EA401 did n't happen until 1972 when the 737 was introduced in 1968 ) . I 'm guessing though that this wo n't completely answer what you are looking for , I 'm sure you 'd want to see the specific input that the " Flight Deck Design Group " offered for the placement of controls and indicators . I guess one way of figuring this out would be to compare the cockpit layout of the 727 and 737 , as far as I can find , those design decisions are n't published .
Since they were not suited for combat , they transitioned to supporting clandestine operations where , to quote the <URL> , To give it the long range it needed , the aircraft had to be lightened by removing all unnecessary equipment such as guns , armour protection and excess radio equipment , retaining only the radio/telephone for communication with the ground . It appears that they did have radios , not sure about how they were used . But if you look at the video in the linked page at about 2:33 the pilot appears to be wearing a helmet with built-in headset and a face-mask type microphone . At 6:19 the rear crewmember looks like he is wearing a mask as well . This is the same aircraft that features prominently in Code Name Verity by Elizabeth E. Wein .
It is called " standard pressure " because 29.92 In-Hg ( or 1013.25 hPa ) is the standard atmospheric pressure at sea level according to both the <URL> ( International Standard Atmosphere ) and the <URL> . Below 18,000 ft , local altimeter settings are used because you need to know how high you are above terrain , or whether or not you 're at the proper altitude for an instrument approach , or at pattern altitude , etc. . In cruising flight above 18,000 ft , except for a few places in the world , you are well above any terrain , so errors in actual altitude of even a couple thousand feet is unlikely to cause a problem . In this case , having all airplanes use a common altimeter setting is useful because it 1 . does n't require you to change it frequently as you pass through changes in pressure , and 2 . it helps ATC ensure separation without having to inform flights every 10 minutes of a new setting . It makes sense to use standard pressure in this case because it represents a good baseline average , and you may have noticed that reported altimeter settings tend to average around 29.92 anyway . That being said , there are instances where you may still need to know the en-route altimeter settings for flight planning purposes . Suppose the minimum safe altitude along your route is 19,000 ft MSL and current pressure is 29.42 . If you decided to cruise at FL190 , you would actually be flying at about 18,500 ft MSL , and would be below your minimum safe altitude . Colder than standard temperature can have similar effect as low pressure , and will result in the airplane being lower than the indicated altitude .
end question
start question
What are the advantages of more than 4 propeller blades ?
You are right , more blades are bad for <URL> ( follow the link for the definition ) . <URL> . Every additional blade will cause disturbances which interfere with the flow on the other blades . When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that , the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . This is done by either increasing blade chord or the number of blades . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way to transform that engine power into thrust . Take the Supermarine Spitfire : The prototype , powered by the 1,030 hp <URL> , had a two-bladed propeller From the Mk II , a three-bladed propeller was fitted to accommodate the increasing power of the RR Merlin ( 1,470 hp for the Spitfire Mk V ) . With the <URL> , a four-bladed propeller was needed for the 1,575 hp of the supercharged Merlin 61 . From the <URL> , the more powerful Rolls-Royce Griffon made a five-bladed propeller necessary . Engine power was raised from 1,735 hp to 2,300 hp for the last variant , the Mk XXIV . <URL> Rolls-Royce Griffon-powered Supermarine Spitfire ( picture <URL> ) A lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction . Consequence : You can not make the propeller bigger and spin it more slowly for a given power . An extreme example for a propeller with a high activity ratio is the <URL> contra-rotating propeller of the <URL> powering the <URL> : <URL> SV-27 propellers on the An-70 ( picture <URL> ) . Eight blades in the forward disc and six in the rear , running at only 1200 RPM . In order to reduce Mach effects , all blades have a swept tip and deep chord . This can only be topped by something like an <URL> . A turbofan , in other words .
Narrower wing chords versus a biplane of similar span and area . More efficient and increased lift Potentially faster rate of climb , tighter turning radius Just to name a few . You 're essentially increasing the surface area without increasing the wingspan
The blades are loose in their " Fir Tree " blade mounts so that they can self balance . They are called " fir tree " because they are v shaped . As the rotation speed and centrifugal force increases , they move in the mounts and establish individual lead/lag positions to achieve a balanced disc . It will be understood that turbine wheels rotate at very high speeds of rotation , thereby generating large centirfugal forces tending to throw the blades outwardly from the wheel . By providing contact surfaces of equal and opposite slope with respect to the longitudinal axis of the root on opposite sides of root , the force components of the centrifugal force balance each other out . Periodic and other vibrations which might otherwise be generated are damped out and greatly minimized Source : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> ( A320 training manual ) Pressing the IDG disconnect sends a current to a solenoid . A <URL> is " a cylindrical coil of wire acting as a magnet when carrying electric current . " When activated it pulls a pin that is holding another spring loaded pin that engages the disconnect mechanism . Holding it for +3 seconds will overheat and thus destroy the solenoid and will require replacement to be able to use it again . The disconnect mechanism requires a running engine . See here : <URL> So if it is not running , the next start may also damage the disconnecting mechanism . <URL>
Titanium is unsuitable because it will react with oxygen and carbon at high temperature , well below its melting point , making it very hard and brittle . Welding titanium is very complicated because it needs to be shielded extremely well from any oxygen when hot . Ti $ _ 3 $ O will form above 500 ° C , and Ti $ _ 2 $ O above 600 ° C. Initially turbine blades were made of steel alloys , but they have been displaced by <URL> . Also , they operate in an environment which requires constant <URL> , so they can be 200 - 300 ° C cooler than the turbine entry temperature of the gas coming from the combustor ( s ) . Modern turbine blades are hollow and have a perforation at their leading edge . Pressurized , relatively cool air is forced through the blades and the perforation and flows around the blade 's surface , creating a cool sheet of air to shield the blade from the hot gas . Also , before entering the turbine the gas is accelerated , which already lowers its temperature . See the plot below of parameters inside an older engine taken from <URL> source . Shortly past the fuel injectors the maximum gas temperature of approx . 1800 ° C is reached , which drops to 1100 ° C at the entry to the first turbine stage . Note that this temperature has been raised to 1500 ° C in modern military engines ! At the same time , the highest temperature is connected with the lowest speed ( 30 m/s ) , and the flow accelerates to 200 m/s directly before entering the first turbine stage . Titanium in contact with oxygen would lose a lot of its strength at these temperatures , even though its melting point is at 1650 ° C.
Well one major difference is the blade pitch , pusher props will seem to be backwards . You must also modify the engine 's bearings to be able to support the propeller mounting and crankshaft in compression , rather than tension . A pusher prop 's engine also has to be cooled differently than a tractor , because the propeller is not blowing air over the engine . Therefore some ducting and ram air magic has to be done , or some other system of cooling implemented . Many pusher-type planes have had severe issues with cooling . Note : some of the next few might not necessarily apply to pusher-type planes where the engine is mounted above the fuselage , like the Lake Amphibian and many other seaplanes , or some other oddities like the B-36 . I am talking about more conventional pushers like the Velocity , Beech Starship , or Cessna 337 . Another issue is FOD . A pusher prop will likely be mounted behind at least one of the wheels , which can kick dirt and rocks up into the propeller . Now imagine a prop that is very close to one of the mains . Even on paved runways you encounter rocks and debris occasionally , and it only takes one hit in the right place to produce a failure-causing nick . Compounding on that last one , when a tractor-type plane takes off , beacause the prop is forward of the center of mass , the propeller will rotate up , away from the ground . But a pusher prop is usually just the opposite : it will rotate down a bit , increasing the chances of a prop-strike . This is one that is heavily considered and worked-around while building pusher-type planes , but while you can mitigate the danger by placing the prop closer to the CM , or making the landing gear taller , you ca n't completely remove it as far as I know .
There are two primary modes of turbine blade failure , that can be predicted , and hence are used to determine the lives of turbine blades at which they need to be replaced . One is called <URL> . The Wikipedia article describes the basic mechanism . The life of the blade is purely a function of " time at temperature " . If the blades experiences flight time above critical material temperature limits , it accumulates a portion of creep fatigue . The total ( cumulative ) amount of creek fatigue is tracked , and when the blade hits that limit , it is removed and replaced with new blades . The type of algorithm used to measure creep life is called Robinson 's rule , and looks like this ( where c1 , c2 &amp; c3 are coefficients related to the relative damage that occurs at the associated temperatures ) : Total accumulated life = c1 x time above T1 deg + c2 x time above T2 deg + c3 x time above T3 deg . Typically , each stage in the turbine will have its own life . ( Each blade on the same stage is not individually monitored and lifed , but rather they are replaced as a set . ) Another failure mode is <URL> This is caused by changes in centrifugal stress , caused by rpm changes from throttle cycles . When the pilot moves the throttle a significant amount , large changes in stress occur . These cause the blade material to behave like bending a wire in your fingers back and forth to make it break ( you do n't break it by just bending it once , or pulling hard on both ends ) . LCF lives are counted in a similar fashion to creep , but rather than counting time spent above a temperature limit , throttle cycles are counted . A throttle cycle might be defined as a change in rpm from one specific value to another . If the engine is modern , the electronic control would count the creep and LCF lives consumed . If the engine is old , and only has a hydro mechanical control , the engine manufacturer will do an analysis on the type of flying the plane is expected to do , and determine the life limits in terms of flight hours . Periodically , they will try and confirm how the plane is actually being flown , and if the flight time before replacement needs to be shortened or can be lengthened . Generally , either the creep life or the LCF life is much shorter than the other , so only one failure mode is tracked for each engine stage . <URL> gives a good description of turbine blade failure modes , and how they are monitored . I doubt you get information on actual lives , that is likely proprietary to the engine manufacturer . The only info you might find is probably for very old engines that they do n't care about anymore . However , if you are lucky , you might finds some numbers burried in NTSB or other countries aircraft accident reports related to blade failure . There are also periodic bore scope inspections , that may cause blades to be replaced for unscheduled ( unpredictable ) failure modes ( FOD damage , coating loss , thermal distress ) as also mentioned in the above document .
No , stacking more propellers will reduce efficiency . The case with two is an exception because the second propeller benefits from operating in the slipstream of the first . In total , both propellers accelerate the air backwards without adding swirl losses . However , <URL> goes down with increasing flow speed ahead of the propeller . This means that every other propeller operating in the accelerated flow of a preceding propeller will have lower efficiency . Generally , it will be better to spread the propellers out sideways than to put them in line . Note that contra-rotating props are the exclusive realm of <URL> with very high <URL> . The most recent designs prefer to use more blades and avoid the heavy gearbox , but the <URL> than that of propellers with lower disk loading and fewer blades . In a way , the efficiency of the eight-bladed propellers below is similar to that of four two-bladed propellers in sequence , but it is much easier to build with all blades and their pitch mechanism in one hub . <URL> T-56 engines with Hamilton-Sundstrand NP2000 propellers on an LC-130 . Photograph by Robyn Waserman , National Science Foundation ( Date Taken : November 21 , 2008 )
At least in the U.S. , ILS is popular because it is popular . It 's relatively cheap to install and operate , the receivers share technology with VOR , and it is already installed everywhere . Momentum ( and cost of replacement ) has a lot to do with the failure and success of navigation systems . MLS requires new hardware on the ground and in aircraft . The FAA tried to roll it out in the U.S. in the 80s , with a goal of replacing ILS by 2010 , and utterly failed . The equipment was expensive for aircraft and ground facilities , and the cost of developing the approach procedures was high , as well as each approach needs tailored antenna programming ( ILS is reasonably standardized ) . The adoption rate was low and the benefits ( better arrival area guidance , better accuracy in some cases ) were duplicated by the much cheaper GPS . Precision GPS ( LPV or LNAV/VNAV approaches ) only appeared with the development of the Space Based Augmentation System ( SBAS ) , also known as the Wide Area Augmentation System ( WAAS ) . Augmented GPS has higher vertical precision and allows a single navigation system to be used for enroute , terminal , and precision approach guidance , a huge cost savings . The relatively new <URL> ( GBAS , originally called LAAS ) adds high precision approach capability bringing GPS approaches closer to ILS and MLS . PAR exists , but you may misunderstand what it is : it is a controller staring at a radar scope and issuing pilots instructions . It 's stressful for pilots and controllers and very time consuming . Outside of military facilities you would be hard pressed to find a place to practice a PAR these days , at least in my experience . In order of precision , high to low : MLS GPS with GBAS ( uncommon ) ILS GPS with WAAS ( common , aka LPV ) PAR In order of ( estimated ) total cost , high to low : MLS ( very expensive install + unique approach design + maintenance ) PAR ( relatively cheap install + costly workforce ; educated guess on my part , could be cheaper than ILS ? ) ILS ( expensive ? install + simple approach design + maintenance ) GPS with * ( no install , simple approach design , no obvious maintenance )
Why more experience is required to fly the airliner above I assume 6096 meters ? I would expect , taking off and flying close to terrain should need more experience . I 'm unaware of any regulation that requires a minimum number of hours to be a captain or first officer above FL200 . That does n't mean there are n't such , just that I do n't know of them . It 's not that that taking off and flying close to terrain requires more or less experience , but that safely operating at high altitude typically involves a different set of knowledge and experience than operating at low altitude . A seasoned bush pilot who does only that would be ill equipped to suddenly become the captain of a 747 at 35,000 feet , just as the 747 captain who had never been a bush pilot would be ill equipped to scud run through a valley to land on a remote airstrip . Part of the difference between two such pilots is , of course , a matter of a propeller airplane versus a jet , a slow airplane versus a fast , and the differing complexities of their aircraft . In addition to those differences , though , the environment that they typically operate in and indeed the altitude itself makes things different . The nature of the emergencies they can possibly face are also different . Offhand I can think of three things the typical low altitude pilot does n't have to contend with that the high altitude pilot does . There are certainly more . Oxygen considerations , in other words what you need to do if you suddenly do n't have it at a breathable pressure . Probably never going to happen , but the high altitude pilot trains for it . Regular operation in or close to the coffin corner . If you 're unfamiliar with the term , <URL> has a reasonable explanation as well as <URL> . A whole different situational awareness environment than the low altitude pilot . For example , I used to do a flight from Sao Paulo to Miami . Two other carriers had flights scheduled that went out immediately before us , also 747s . Everybody was always heavy , which meant the first guy out got the highest cruise altitude available for the weight we were all at approximately , the second guy 2,000 feet below that , and then us sucking fuel 4,000 feet lower than the first . However , I knew that if I could open up the distance between myself and the second guy , I could get a clearance through the second guy 's altitude to the first guy 's altitude since there was enough time/distance between us . So what I would do was to climb at best angle rather than best rate . Then , if the weather was good ( i.e. no turbulence ) and I had the engines for it , it took very little fuel burn before I would able to get 2,000 feet higher if I was willing to accept slightly lesser protection from the top of the coffin corner . Sometimes that would work out , sometimes not , but it always got us at least up to the first guy 's altitude . And on rare occasions , it meant we reached Miami before either of the other two .
Left , right and centre . For example , Heathrow has 27 left ( 27L ) and right and 09 left ( 09L ) and right . <URL> <URL> Here 's an example for an airfield with a 34 left runway . <URL> If there are more than three runways more or less parallel , one or more runway numbers will be shifted by 10 degrees , e.g. 08L , 08C , 08R , 09R . From <URL> At large airports with four or more parallel runways ( for example , at Los Angeles , Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County , Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta , Denver , Dallas-Fort Worth and Orlando ) some runway identifiers are shifted by 10 degrees to avoid the ambiguity that would result with more than three parallel runways . For example , in Los Angeles , this system results in runways 6L , 6R , 7L , and 7R , even though all four runways are actually parallel ( approximately 69 degrees ) . At Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , there are five parallel runways , named 17L , 17C , 17R , 18L , and 18R , all oriented at a heading of 175.4 degrees . Occasionally , an airport with only 3 parallel runways may use different runway identifiers , for example when a third parallel runway was opened at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport in 2000 to the south of existing 8R/26L , rather than confusingly becoming the " new " 8R/26L it was instead designated 7R/25L , with the former 8R/26L becoming 7L/25R and 8L/26R becoming 8/26 .
Are they really ? In a high wing aircraft the center of lift is above the center of gravity . This will not increase stability when the aircraft banks , however , as you rightly say , will help once the aircraft is in a sideslip . In order to keep the fuselage at an angle to the airflow , the wing has now to create a sideways lift component , which it does by flying at an angle to the horizontal . This roll angle of the aircraft will shift the center of gravity sideways , so it is not exactly below the center of lift , but offset laterally . This lateral offset seems to produce a rolling moment which works against the roll angle . Below I sketched the major forces in a sideslip . Note that the aircraft has a sideways speed component which creates a side force on fuselage and tail ( green ) which needs to be counteracted by the sideways component of lift ( blue ) . <URL> Short Sandringham in sideslip ( based on <URL> ) But still the weight ( black ) is attacking at the center of gravity , so it will not roll the aircraft , and the lift is in the vertical plane of symmetry , so it , too , will not create a rolling moment . Ergo , we have no stabilizing effect due to the high wing location ! In a sideslip of a high-wing aircraft the <URL> . This would indeed create a rolling moment because it will shift the center of lift sideways , out of the plane of symmetry . In a static sideslip the pilot will deflect the ailerons to maintain the roll angle as well as the rudder to maintain the sideslip , shifting the lift vector back into the vertical plane of symmetry . Now any stabilizing effect of the lift asymmetry is on purpose cancelled by the pilot ! However , this is achieved in a low wing airplane by adding dihedral . Therefore , a low wing aircraft can easily be made as stable as a high wing aircraft in a sideslip . You will notice that the lateral aerodynamic force ( green ) acts above the center of gravity and <URL> . This is dictated by the location of the vertical tail , which contributes little to the location of the center of gravity , but produces a considerable share of the lateral force ( reduced in the sideslip case by rudder deflection , however ) . This rolling moment , though , is almost independent of wing location . In a low wing , the center of gravity will be lower in total , especially when the engines are mounted on the wing , so the rolling moment contribution of the vertical tail is somewhat higher . The effect is small in a sideslip since the rudder deflection means that the fuselage contributes the majority of the side force . And this is not the pendulum effect which you asked about and which does not exist . In airships , <URL> , however : Since buoyancy always acts against gravity , a lateral offset of the heavy gondola will create an uprighting moment , just as it does in a pendulum . When turning , the heavy gondola will be pulled sideways by centrifugal forces , and the airship will roll . Since the turn is commanded with rudder , the rotation will give the rudder a small nose-down moment , which must be compensated by a nose-up elevator command . The pendulum effect will ensure that the gondola is at the lowest point in straight flight . P.S. : Thanks to the hint of @kepler22b I have now discovered the <URL> on Wikipedia . It also mentions the pendulum effect and calls both the fuselage contribution to the dihedral effect . Man , if there is ever a competition for the most misleading name of an effect , this would be the winning entry . A pendulum is a mass mounted below the hinge point , so it will stabilize in the down position . A flying aircraft is not hinged , so all motion is around the center of gravity . There simply is no pendulum effect in aircraft .
A CG near the aft reduces drag by reducing the necessary downforce that has to be supplied ( usually ) by the <URL> . This is also a point for competition gliding ( more often than not you have water ballast in the vertical tailplane to compensate for those love handles ) . Aerobatic gliders sometimes feature aft lead ballast to enable maneuvers like tailspins which are not possible with a forward CG . Aft CGs come with reduced stability , which can be a severe flight-safety concern ( e.g. in case of <URL> ) . Some fighter aircraft feature inherently unstable aerodynamics ( see <URL> ) which offer great agility ( e.g. turning rates ) , but need constant input by a flight constrol system ( and woe if that <URL> , e.g. via <URL> ) . A forward CG results in greater flight stability and reduced danger of sudden stalling , but also increased drag ( because of the increased downforce required from the tailplane ) . In extreme cases this can limit the maneuverability as well and cause a <URL> ( the tailplane can only produce so much lift/downforce before itself stalls , at which point it is no longer holding your nose up ) .
For subsonic aircraft , the nacelle lips need to be blunt and well rounded to accommodate the different flow regimes encountered during flight . At take-off ( right side of the image below ) , the engine will suck in surrounding air , so the stagnation line of the intake flow is well outside of the center of the lip , whereas in cruise ( left side of the image below ) only the center stream tube of oncoming air is ingested , and much of the air flowing towards the nacelle is spilled over the sides . Accordingly , the stagnation line is well inside of the lip 's center . A sharper lip contour would lead to flow separation due to the small radius ( and hence the rapid change in direction ) the flow would have to endure . <URL> Image from Aerodynamic Design of Transport Aircraft by Ed Obert , 2009 Added to this is the influence of angle of attack , which will shift the stagnation line up or down on the lip . Sideslip will shift it left and right . Nacelles are mounted far ahead of the wing not only for flutter suppression , but also to reduce the wing 's influence on the intake flow . I doubt that the added variations of sideslip would be stronger than those of angle of attack , so I agree with @fooot that more bluntness on the side is unusual . Earlier designs used less blunt lips and had problems with flow separation in the intake at low speed , which led to the addition of <URL> . Today , the intake is optimized with <URL> and this means that the radius may be continuously changing over the circumference , due to the influence of wing and fuselage on the flow around the nacelle . Here I have to disagree with @fooot , because accessories are mounted close to the engine , and intake lips are quite a bit ahead of the engine face in order to equalize the flow . The flow speed at the engine face is around Mach 0.4 to 0.5 , so the intake has to accelerate or decelerate the flow quite a bit , without separation or much cross flow . A lot of that happens already outside of the intake , but still needs some intake length , and most accessories are so far away from the intake lip that they do not influence it 's thickness .
Fluid Types <URL> contains a good summary of the different types of fluid : Types Type I fluids have a low viscosity , and are considered " unthickened " . They provide only short term protection because they quickly flow off surfaces after use . They are typically sprayed on hot ( 130 -- 180 ° F , 55-80 ° C ) at high pressure to remove snow , ice , and frost . Usually they are dyed orange to aid in identification and application . Type II fluids are pseudoplastic , which means they contain a polymeric thickening agent to prevent their immediate flow off aircraft surfaces . Typically the fluid film will remain in place until the aircraft attains 100 knots or so ( almost 200 km/h ) , at which point the viscosity breaks down due to shear stress . The high speeds required for viscosity breakdown means that this type of fluid is useful only for larger aircraft . The use of type II fluids is diminishing in favour of type IV . Type II fluids are generally light yellow in color . Type III fluids can be thought of as a compromise between type I and type II fluids . They are intended for use on slower aircraft , with a rotation speed of less than 100 knots . Type III fluids are generally light yellow in color . Type IV fluids meet the same AMS standards as type II fluids , but they provide a longer holdover time . They are typically dyed green to aid in the application of a consistent layer of fluid . Chemical Composition The main component of deicing fluid is usually propylene glycol or ethylene glycol . Other ingredients vary depending on the manufacturer , but the exact composition of a particular brand of fluid is generally held as confidential proprietary information . Call ahead to the airport to see what kind of deice/anti-ice fluid that they have because each one is different . Time Limits Every year , the FAA publishes tables which include information about how long the various deice fluids will provide protection under various weather conditions . Here is an example table : For this particular fluid ( ABAX ECOWING AD-49 Type IV ) we can lookup a specific example such as : -10 Degrees Celcius 75 % fluid and 25 % water Light Snow This shows that the fluid will provide protection for 1:40 to 2:05 . If you are delayed longer than that , you will need to deice again . Since every part of the aircraft needs to be protected , the timing starts when they first start spraying the aircraft . Note that other types of fluid ( particularly Type I fluids ) have much shorter holdover times than this , so be careful and make sure that you check ! Resources <URL> <URL>
A Pelican tail is a V-tail with the two tail surfaces set apart . Compare this to a straight V-tail as that of the <URL> : <URL> Tail view of the F-117 ( picture <URL> ) The closest to a Pelican tail which has actually been flown is maybe that of the <URL> : <URL> Tail view of the YF-23 ( picture <URL> ) Clearly , the distance between the two surfaces is dictated by the engines , but Northrop could have placed them on top of the nacelles . However , doing so would had been a poor choice for several reasons . A Pelican tail has those advantages : If the vertical part is too close to the wing strake or fuselage chines , the strake vortex could hit the tail surfaces and cause oscillatory loads . <URL> so they would not break off . A Pelican tail should easily avoid this . A pure V-tail has <URL> , because the pitch-induced angle of attack change is reduced and the reaction force , too , by the V angle . Placing a horizontal strip in the middle improves pitch damping . Wikipedia has conflicting information on weight savings , but generally V - and Pelican tails should be more efficient than a conventional tail . However , for the best maneuverability a conventional tail is preferable . Again , placing a horizontal part between the two V surfaces improves pitch maneuverability , even when the control surfaces are only on the V part . Their symmetric deflection will induce a considerable lift change on the horizontal part . Placing the vertical tail outside and aft of the engine exhaust will shield the lateral IR radiation better . The drawbacks are : Higher structural complexity compared to a true V-tail . Lower maneuverability and yaw damping than a conventional tail . EDIT : I knew I had seen a Pelican tail before , but could not remember where . Now I found it : <URL> This ist the German <URL> helicopter ( picture <URL> ) , and yes , this is a Pelican tail ; however without control surfaces . It had two intermeshing rotors which made a tail rotor unnecessary . Anton Flettner had built the similar <URL> in 1940 and introduced the 282 in 1942 .
If the airflow is parallel to the axis of rotation of a propeller , the resulting thrust force will also be parallel to the axis of rotation and act on the center of the propeller disc . If , however , the airflow hits the propeller at an angle of less than 90 ° , the resulting force will tilt towards the flow direction and shift away from the center of the propeller disc in a direction orthogonal to the directional change . Example : You fly in a single-engined plane , the two-bladed prop is spinning clockwise when seen from the pilot 's view and you push the left pedal such that the aircraft flies in a sideslip . If both propeller blades are level , nothing much changes , but if the propeller turns another 90 ° , both blades will see very different flow conditions ( see the sketch below ) : For the upper blade , which moves from left to right , the sum of circumferential speed ( $ \ omega \ cdot r _ { Prop } $ , red ) and air speed ( $ v _ { \ infty } $ , blue ) is bigger than that of the lower blade ( black arrows ) and hits the blade at a larger effective angle of attack $ \ alpha _ { eff } $ . Thus , the lift force created by the upper blade is much bigger , and as a result it will act at a point on the upper half of the propeller disc . The same happens when the plane flies at a high angle of attack and high power ( ground run of a taildragger , or climb ) and the airflow hits the propeller disc slightly from below . Now the thrust force will move to the right and tilt slightly downward . This will cause the aircraft to turn to the left and must be compensated with right rudder . This effect is sometimes called p-factor , but this is not a factor in an equation , but something you need to factor in when flying at high angle of attack . Note that the rotational component of the prop wash will cause a similar effect when it hits the rudder at an angle , adding to the leftward tendency of the plane .
I think you are trying to ask What is the difference between a propeller and a turbo propeller ? A traditional propeller plane is powered by an <URL> engine . These can be in the form of radial , flat , or V style engines with a few other configurations used here and there . On the other hand a turbo prop is a propeller plane that is powered by a <URL> . In this instance the shaft of the turbine is used to drive a propellor . One could think of this as putting a propellor on the front of a jet engine .
Let 's say you have two aircraft that will reach the same point in space at the same time , and your job is to keep them three miles apart . One way to do it is to calculate how many knots the second aircraft should reduce their speed so that at the time the first aircraft reaches the point , the second aircraft will have fallen three miles in trail . Unfortunately for you , this means that you have to work a time-speed-distance-wind problem for every single aircraft that you , as a controller , handle . Alternatively , you pick a point three miles away and tell the second aircraft to fly there . Air traffic controllers are human , and humans are better at angles than we are at numbers . The simplest thing for controllers is usually the best thing - they 've got lots on their mind already without making them do math too ! This might change in the NEXTGEN air traffic network ( where everyone has a GPS position and speed readout right there on the screen ) but for now , easy is better than hard .
The deviation detected on your VOR check is likely to be unrelated to the deviation of the glideslope . Whilst they use the same indicator instrument , the radio systems driving the instrument are typically separate . The VOR system works on a 108.00-117 .95 MHz , frequency &amp; amplitude modulated signal . The glideslope works on a 329.15-335 .0 MHz amplitude modulated signal . Both signals have different paths to the indicator instrument , and they use different needles on the indicator . Therefor it is unlikely that a systematic error causing a deviation in the VOR omni-bearing indicator will cause a deviation in the glide path indicator . There may be common error sources in both indications , but that depends really on the internal design of the receiver . For example if there is a voltage bias on some part of the system it may affect both systems . But you ca n't say anything about the maximum degree of deviation from the actual glide slope based on the observed deviation in the VOR receiver . The localizer receiver works on the same frequencies as the VOR , but the demodulation is different . In an analogue system with needles , they use the same needle . So for localizer there is a higher system commonality with VOR than in the glide path case , which increase the likelihood of a common source of error .
end question
start question
How is fuel vapor dealt with at large airports ?
Large airplanes are <URL> so vapor escaping through the fuel port is not an issue as it is in smaller airplanes . You are correct , however , that the fuel/air mixture existing in the tank will be displaced by the incoming fuel . The wings will have vents installed that will allow the air mixture in the tank to escape ( and fuel in the case of over fuelling or excess expansion of the fuel after it is loaded ) . The fire risk is minimized in three ways I can think of : The airplane is grounded to the fuel truck , minimizing the risk of ignition via sparking . The wing vents have flame arrestors so that if the air mixture leaving the wing did ignite , the flame would not make it into the tank . Atmospheric dispersion -- once the air mixture is out of the tank it will become more dilute with time . In the cases there is more than vapor released , e.g. liquid fuel is expelled , these spills will be absorbed to minimize fire risk . In the ultimate case of fire the fuel truck has fire extinguishers and there is a fire station on the airport that can apply foam and water as needed .
For larger aircraft , likely no . Worst case they can carry enough fuel to return to their origin . If range does became an issue ( e.g. Atlanta - > Anchorage ) you would just schedule a technical stop somewhere like Yellowknife . Alaska has a ton of small airfields so short-range aircraft would have many alternatives . Wether the alternate has any services is another question . As the question asks about US airports only , mainland - > Hawaii would be a possibility . Hawaiian Air 's 717 planes already need extra tanks in the fuselage to get to the mainland , so a return flight would be weather-dependent . If you take off from Seattle and several airports close for bad weather after you pass the no-return point your options are rather limited . If the weather is bad enough to close every airport in the islands then channeling Sullenberger wo n't help much . Unlikely any sane pilot would take off with that kind of forecast , and Hawaii 's weather is usually pretty good .
Numbering the radios that I can think of offhand in the old 747-100 and -200 aircraft that I used to fly produces : 2 VHF voice communications radios . 2 VHF navigation radio receivers for receiving VOR and LOC signals . The LOC frequencies are paired with UHF frequencies for receiving glideslope signals . 1 ADF ( automatic direction finding ) receiver . 1 HF ( high frequency ) voice communication radio . 2 transponders to send whatever the " squawk " is when interrogated . # 1 was used on odd days of the month , # 2 on even days . There are a number of standard codes , but ATC assigns a 4-digit code to each aircraft during flight under their control . There is never an 8 or a 9 in the code because it 's an octal code . 1 SELCAL ( selective calling ) receiver , which will sound an alert if it receives a signal sent by a ground station . It may not be a separate radio but just a box listening for a tone on one of the voice communication radios . 1 weather radar , and , yes , radar is a radio ( radio detection and ranging ) employing both a transmitter and a receiver . 1 radar altimeter for use in the final stages of the landing approach . Some were " talkers " in that starting around 50 feet , they would announce your altitude in increments of 10 feet . 1 GPWS ( ground proximity warning system ) . I 'm not sure whether it and the radar altimeter shared a box/circuitry/antenaes . 1 GPS receiver , which we got only in the last few months before I retired in 1999 1 ELT ( emergency locator transmitter ) life raft locator beacons . I ca n't remember how many life rafts there were . life raft voice communication on 121.5 and maybe 243.0 . I may not have remembered them all . Modern transport category aircraft would also have SATCOM . Military aircraft would have UHF voice communications and mission appropriate weaponry radios .
Very very uncommon . Goose Bay , Canada , is a diversion airport for US-Europe flights . If you search <URL> for " goose " , you will find about 2 to 3 flights divert there each year . 3 flights diverted in 2017 : Delta A330 Oct 20 , engine problem SAS A340 April 16 , low cabin pressure Air France A380 Sep 30 , engine structural failure 2 flights diverted in 2016 : Virgin B787 Nov 22 , engine oil leak United B767 Sep 15 , generator/APU failure 3 flights diverted in 2015 : American B757 Sep 30 , electrical problem Delta B767 July 31 , generator failure United B767 June 12 , flight controls 2 flights diverted in 2014 : Delta B767 Aug 9 , engine problem Delta B767 May 1 , engine shut down In all these incidents except for 2 , the report in Aviation Herald states a replacement aircraft was required . Sometimes the delay was 6 hours , sometimes the next day . In the 2 other incidents , it 's unclear if a replacement aircraft was required or not , but in both cases maintenance was required , so at least a delay occurred . This compares with a bird strike , or fumes/smoke in the cabin , almost daily somewhere . It 's much rare than even lightning strikes , of which 25 were reported in 2017 .
It is usually required to file a flight plan for international flights ( with very few exceptions ) , and I 'll assume this is the case for Canada/US as well , but I 'm not 100 % sure of this . In this case you have two options You close your flight plan and let ATC or FSS know where you are , they 'll note it 's an international flight that landed somewhere without customs , and you 're likely to end up in trouble . You do n't close your flight plan , and you 'll trigger a search-and-rescue operation as you 'll eventually be overdue , drawing attention to yourself , and you 're equally likely to end up in trouble . Not to mention that you 'll probably be liable for the cost of the search-and-rescue . You could of course file a plan with a drastically reduced TAS , do a very quick stop , and arrive at the original destination within the grace period . I do n't know if that will trigger any surveillance systems though . If you do n't file a flight plan and cross the border anyway , I 'm guessing that you will indeed trigger some alerts though .
There are 2 fuel pumps on the Diamond DA20 . One is electric and is controlled by the pilot and one is mechanically driven by the engine and is constantly running while the engine is running . After take off , you switch the electric one off and the mechanical one keeps supplying the engine with fuel . <URL>
Fuel dumping is almost always an emergency maneuver , and it is never good for the environment . So the alleged danger from the dumping must be balanced with the imminent danger to the 200 -- 400 passengers involved . It is never an easy decision but that 's why the Captain gets paid the big bucks ... Dumping fuel sounds dangerous but it is not . It is not going to explode . Jet-A can be compared to kerosene and I do n't have that statistic so let 's compare it to Diesel Fuel which is not dissimilar to Jet-A . Diesel Fuel at 400 & deg ; F ( 204 & deg ; C ) is as volatile as gasoline is at 70 & deg ; F ( 21 & deg ; C ) . Obviously that is a big difference . Jet-A also evaporates into the air , so little if any hits the ground . The biggest danger I see is to the atmosphere .
A number of 737s are fitted with forward airstairs ( and aft ones too ) . The Boeing Airplane Planning Document gives the airstairs opening as 0.41 X 1.12 m , while the airstairs can be folded to less than 2.5 m length . This should give the volume occupied by the airstairs . <URL> Image from Boeing 737 <URL> document . According to an article in <URL> , the total system weighs in around 200 lbs : Aircraft such as the DC9 , MD80 , MD90 , and 737 aircraft have had a long enough history that many of them were built with the forward passenger air stair assembly . Many aircraft were also converted to non-airstair versions Ñ a 200 + lb . weight savings for the operator .
Unlike with driving , in aviation the major variable when planning fuel consumption is n't how far you 're traveling but how long you 're traveling : Distance traveled in aircraft is a derived value ( calculated from groundspeed and time - groundspeed also being a derived value affected by many factors including wind ) . A pilot may not readily know their groundspeed ( it can be quite different from airspeed ) , but at a given power setting they know an engine will burn a specific quantity of fuel per unit time , therefore fuel consumption is generally expressed that way ( in gallons per hour or pounds per hour ) , and if they know how long they 've been flying they can reliably estimate how much fuel they 've burned , how much is left in the tanks , and how much longer they can keep flying before running out of fuel . To illustrate why this is superior for flight planning consider the following ( extremely simplified ) flights fitting the following profile : <URL> A 200 nautical mile trip An airspeed of 100 knots A fuel burn of 10 gallons per hour A 25-gallon fuel tank . Scenario 1 : No Wind With no wind the flight will take two hours to complete . The groundspeed is 100 knots . The aircraft will burn 20 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 10 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with 5 gallons of fuel left in the tank - that corresponds to 30 minutes , which is the minimum legal reserve for day VFR flight per FAA regulations . Scenario 2 : 25 Knot Headwind With a 25 knot headwind the flight will take about 2:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 75 knots . The aircraft will burn 27 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 7.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we run out of fuel 2:30 into the flight . Running out of fuel is generally considered to be a Bad Thing : The passengers complain , and the FAA asks a lot of uncomfortable questions . Scenario 3 : 25 Knot Tailwind With a 25 knot tailwind the flight will take about 1:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 125 knots . The aircraft will burn 16 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 12.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with almost an hour of fuel still in the tank - a very comfortable reserve . On longer flights , and in slower aircraft , the effects of wind can be extremely pronounced , and a 5 or 10 knot difference from the forecast winds can mean the difference between arriving at your destination or having to add a fuel stop .
The actual fuel type limitations will be listed in at least two places : the aircraft type certification data sheet ( TCDS ) , and the limitations section of the aircraft Flight Manual , Operating Handbook , or equivalent . The fuel placards placed at the fuel filler ports might not list all approved fuels , or may state " Type X fuel only " when additional fuels may in fact be approved . These placards should be understood as a precaution against inadvertently fueling with an unintended or wrong type of fuel . In some cases ignoring these placards can have <URL> . Some aircraft do indeed have approved emergency fuels . This information would also be found in the limitations listed above . For example , the <URL> for the Beechcraft King Air B200 with PT6A series engines is lists the following for normal approved fuels : Fuel JP-4 , JP-5 ( MIL-T-5624 ) ; JP-8 ( MIL-T-83133 ) ; JET A , JET A-1 , and JET B conforming to P&amp;WC S.B. 1244 or ASTM SPEC . D1655 ; in addition for B200 and B200C Chinese No. 3 Jet Fuel . See NOTE 6 for emergency fuels Note 6 in the TCDS reads as follows : NOTE 6 . Emergency use of MIL-G-5572 : Grades 80/87 , 91/98 , 100/130 , and 115/145 are permitted for a total time period not to exceed 150 hours time between engine overhauls . It is not necessary to purge the unused fuel from the system when switching fuel types . Likewise , the <URL> for the King Air B200 lists the same limitations . The Flight Manual for the King Air B200 also lists these limitations , as applicable , as well as some additional altitude constraints when using emergency fuels due to electric boost pump requirements . In contrast to the actual fuel limitations , the placard placed at the fuel port for the King Air B200 lists very little of the actual limitations : <URL> Source : Beechcraft King Air 200 <URL>
The Local Area Augmentation System was the FAA term for the Ground Based Augmentation System ( GBAS ) , which is an International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) standardized system for local area differential systems . The FAA has migrated to the ICAO term GBAS , though Several historical FAA documents still retain the LAAS terminology . According to the <URL> page , Currently , two U.S. locations have obtained operational approval for public GBAS use and support revenue airline traffic . These stations are located at Newark Liberty International Airport ( EWR ) and Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) . According to FAA , development of GBAS continues and , The FAA and other States are in the process of validating proposed ICAO GBAS standards to support Category III ( CAT-III ) precision approach operations . The FAA expects ICAO will approve GAST-D Standards and Recommended Practices in 2015 Also , The FAA continues to validate the GBAS CAT-III requirements as part of the Next Generation Air Transportation System ( commonly known as NextGen ) . The FAA has currently deferred any Federal acquisition decision on GBAS . Also , though GBAS and WAAS are mutually exclusive at present , some future aircraft like A350 are expected to support both GBAS and WAAS .
Modern military fuel tanks use the same basic technology to seal the tank after a puncture as WW2 aircraft did , which is the use of a laminated rubber-textile material , which tends to retain its form after being torn . The main difference between modern tank liners and WW2 liners is that the modern liners use more sophisticated materials so they can achieve the same benefit using a much thinner liner ( hence less weight ) . Bullets hitting a tank do not cause " detonation " unless they generate a spark and the fuel-air mixture in the tank is in ignition range . Also , most aircraft explosions are not detonations , they are <URL> . The liner does nothing to prevent this . The main functions of the liner are to prevent fuel from leaking out of a punctured tank and to maintain the integrity of the tank in a low-altitude mishap or crash . The main test for a liner is the " drop test " in which the liner is filled with fuel and dropped from a height of about 50 feet . The advantage of pressurizing a tank with air ( inerting ) is that it increases the critical temperature of an explosive mixture . If the critical temperature of the mixture is above the ambient temperature , then the tank will not explode spontaneously when sparked . A modern variation on this is called " nitrogen inerting " . The idea with that is to pressurize the tank with nitrogen . This makes the tank spark proof . Note that inerting technologies do not prevent a fuel tank from blowing up if an aircraft is hit with ordnance . The reason for this is that typically the way an aircraft blows up is that damage from the ordnance starts a fire . The fire then rapidly evolves fuel-laden gases into open compartments of the aircraft . As soon as these gases reach the ignition mixture , the fire deflagarates the mixture , causing an explosion . Inerting does little to prevent this . Inerting is very useful , however , because it can prevent a plane blowing up due to lightning or problems with electrical wiring or static electicity buildup .
OK , I sat on my hands for a while , so now I 'll stick my head in the lion 's mouth . You should absolutely sump your tanks every time you go flying as part of a routine preflight inspection , whether you 've taken on fuel or not , whether the aircraft has been hangared or out on the ramp , and even if it 's below freezing . Water is n't the only thing you 're looking for ( misfueling happens - also bits of fuel tank sealant , rubber from a rotting bladder , dirt that made it past the fueling truck 's filters , etc. - you want to find these things ! ) Ideally if it 's below freezing you should also pre-heat your aircraft so the <URL> , instruments , and fuel are above freezing when you 're preflighting ( which is generally accomplished by sticking the plane in a heated hangar ) , but sometimes that 's not an option and you make do . Why should you sump the tanks if it 's below freezing ? Well like I said above , water is n't the only thing we 're looking for - and all those concerns still hold valid no matter what the temperature is . Water is the one that people seem to come up with as a reason for not sumping when it 's below freezing though , so let 's talk about water : There are five general ways water can manifest itself in your ( Avgas ) fuel system : Liquid Water If it 's not been below freezing ( or it 's really sunny and your fuel tanks have acted like an oven ) water may be liquid , waiting for you at the sump drain just like on a warm summer day . You 'll drain it out and go on about your business . Slush ( ice crystals suspended in the fuel ) If it 's below freezing you may have suspended ice crystals or slush in the fuel ( particularly if you just took on fuel ) . This will look " cloudy " when you drain it from the sump and it 's a good indication that today is not a good day to fly : you may have a LOT of water in the fuel , and you need to need to deal with it ( warm the plane up and drain off the water , and figure out how so much of it got in there in the first place ) . ( There is a chance that slush could jam your fuel drain open , in which case your fuel tank will empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . ) Little bits of ice Little drops of water can freeze into little bits of ice , which are often just too big to come out of the fuel sump drain , but just small enough to lodge in it and keep it from closing ( which , again , will cause your tank to empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . This is also an indication that today is not a good day to fly ) . BIG bits of ice over the sump drain Liquid water will flow to the lowest point in the fuel system ( the drains ) . If it 's below freezing it will freeze there , potentially blocking the sump drain . You 'll notice this condition because the sump valve may feel stiff , your tank may not drain , or it will drain very slowly , possibly with water in the fuel . This is a good indication that you should n't fly until you figure out what the cause of the problem is ( it could be ice , it could be a defective valve , or it could be a bunch of other things , but until you know you want to stay on the ground ) . Hidden Ice ( big bits of ice away from the sump drain ) This is perhaps the most insidious : Ice that 's not near the sump , and does n't block or jam anything . Hopefully you 'll spot this sitting at the bottom of your tank when you look in to check the fuel level ( you do visually check your fuel level , right ? ) , but you probably wo n't notice anything out of the ordinary when you sump the tank . ( There are of course other ways water can hide out in the system besides the fuel tanks , but these are where you 're most likely to find it . ) The most likely " bad thing " to happen to you in any of those scenarios is that your fuel sump will be jammed open by ice . This means you 'll spill a tank 's worth of avgas on the ground , and you 'll have to call your airport 's spill cleanup/emergency number and let them know . That emergency is on the ground , and it may be a little embarrassing to have to explain to the spill cleanup folks , but it 's better than the other possibilities . The Bad Things that can happen to you in the air if you go flying with undetected ice/water in the fuel are far worse : The ice could melt and your engine could start trying to burn water , which does n't ignite very well . <URL> for one example of how things can go catastrophically wrong if you neglect to sump your tanks ( or ignore the warning signs when you do ) .
It is possible to overfill a wing . You fuel the aircraft when its wing is cold . Later as the aircraft sits on the ramp the outside temp increases causing the full to expand in an already full wing . So they have the overflow system dumps the excess fuel on the ramp . Its usually not a lot of fuel just a few gallons . It also prevents the fueler from over fueling the wind . It can sometime dump 50 gallons or more if the fueler it not paying attention .
If the aircraft is cruising at FL350 it is operating in Reduced Vertical Separation Minima ( RVSM ) airspace ( between FL290 and FL410 ) . With an altimetry discrepancy between the two altimeters of more than 245ft , the aircraft is no longer RVSM approved . It shall therefore descent or climb out of the RVSM altitude block . For the Airbus A321 the operating ceiling is below FL410 , so the only option is to descent to FL280 or below . Since the fuel consumption in those altitudes is significantly higher the aircraft is unlikely to complete its 6 hour flight with the amount of fuel on board . Therefore the decision to return is likely the right one .
Boldface emergency procedures are procedures that the aircrew should have committed to memory and are written in bold text . Generally speaking , the boldface for all emergencies involving brake failures , gear failures , control failures , literally anything that involves control of the aircraft after touchdown , starts with : If fly-away airspeed available : 1 . Go-around If fly-away airspeed unavailable : 2 . Do specific airframe related items . Emergency procedures like these will be committed to memory , and then the only problem for the aircrew to solve will be if they have enough runway remaining to get airborne again . If they do n't have enough runway remaining then usually the fix to is apply emergency brakes ( if the pedals hit the floor ) or use backup nose wheel steering ( for a steering failure ) and ride it out . Note : use of these emergency procedures does n't necessarily indicate a failure of an aircraft system . If a sudden gust of wind at touchdown weathervanes the aircraft 45 degree off centerline , you can be sure the crew is checking for fly-away airspeed .
The easiest way to tell the direction of the wind when you 're near the water is to look for something on the shore that indicated wind direction ( beaches often have flags on them ) Barring that there are a bunch of other clues that should be familiar to any sailor ( or seaplane pilot ) which you can borrow : Boats lying at anchor weathervane and automatically point into the wind This is n't 100 % reliable : Some boats will set two anchors ( fore and stern ) and wo n't weathervane . Also when the tide is shifting boats will swing to align with the tide if it 's stronger than the wind . Boats lying at anchor sometimes have a flag on them Flags on a boat at anchor work the same way as flags on land - they 're excellent indicators of wind direction . On calm bodies of water the wind creates visible surface ripples The concave side of these ripples is the windward side . <URL> ( Visualize the water as being a large bowl of soup - now blow on the soup . The ripples will have the same shape . ) This same principle applies to larger waves as well ( other factors could cause the dominant breeze along a shoreline to not be quite perpendicular to the waves , but if your concern is ground reference maneuvers it 's " close enough " ) . " Wind Streaks " on the sea indicate wind direction <URL> are somewhat ambiguous in that they 're aligned with the wind , but do n't tell you which way it 's blowing : You have to figure that out for yourself ( for example by looking at the shape of the waves as described above ) . <URL> Surf spray gives wind speed and direction Waves breaking will produce spray that blows downwind - I could n't find a good illustration for this , but the finer spray tends to blow , while heavier drops just fall . The distance the spray blows gives an approximate indication of wind speed . It would take some pretty heavy seas to produce visible spray at altitude though , and you 're more likely to see foam and whitecaps in that case Foam or Whitecaps provide wind speed and direction Foam or whitecaps provide an indication of direction ( the foam appears to move upwind - into the wind ) and speed ( it generally takes winds of 10-15 knots or more to produce whitecaps and foam ) .
The facility under duress will declare " ATC Zero " and all traffic will be handed off to other controllers while that facility is offline . In the case of a control tower , this means the airport either acts as a non-towered field or as a closed field ( depending on the nature of the emergency ) . If it is a TRACON , then the ARTCC will assume control of the TRACONs airpsace . If it is an ARTCC , that might present bigger problems as continuity of radio communications may be impacted and I 'm not sure exactly how this would be handled but assume it would be re-routes around the ARTCC . I 've been inbound to IAH when their tower decided to close ( I forget why ) , and the response was to put everyone inbound to IAH into holds and handle diverts when fuel became an issue .
It depends on the engine . A piston engine will use avgas ( aviation gasoline ) or diesel ( or Jet-A for availability reasons ) depending on whether the engine is a diesel engine ( which can burn jet fuel ) , while a turbine engine will use jet fuel . Essentially whatever the engine is rated to burn . The fuel tank is somewhere in the fuselage near the center of the rotor . This to avoid the center of gravity shifting with the fuel level .
The short of it is that most such ex-military aircraft , and replicas built new to spec on these designs , do not have a " type " as defined by the FAA at all . Because the absence of a type means the aircraft ca n't be certified as airworthy in the normal way , and pilots of these aircraft can not receive a type rating to fly them , the certification of aircraft and pilot is a bit different . The aircraft must first be issued an FAA " Special Airworthiness Certificate " . This is essentially a slightly more rigorous form of airworthiness inspections for type-rated aircraft and virtually identical to that for experimental and/or home-built aircraft , resulting in the certification of the craft as airworthy in general even though it does not fall into a predefined aircraft type for which FAA instructors can issue type ratings . The airman , because he ca n't be certified to fly a non-existent FAA aircraft type , must receive a special rating certification called a " Letter of Authorization " , allowing the pilot to fly aircraft of a specific model , and/or a " set " of aircraft that have similar configuration , power , weight and other operational specifications and limits ( but that are n't similar or common enough for a type rating ) . The training required for an LOA includes a combination of ground school and flight school containing information and in-flight training on the specific model to be authorized . But , when it is not possible or practical to do in-flight training in the exact model of aircraft to be authorized ( usually because the aircraft in question is a single-seater with no two-seat configuration available ) , flight training in a " similar " aircraft can be a substitute . Pilots of vintage single-seat warplanes like P-51s typically get their flight training for the category in something similar to what military pilots of the day would have used , such as an AT-6 . If the flight school just happens to have a Twin Mustang laying around , that would be even better , and also more directly applicable to multi-engine warbirds like the P-38 . Back to your example , say you get your hands on a " de-fanged " A-10 ( which would require a ton of ballast weight to be added , literally ; the GAU-8 weighs about as much as a Cadillac , but I digress ) . All flying examples are single-seaters ; however , the avionics , especially of the original A-10A without the glass cockpit upgrade of the PEUP program , are comparable to any 70 's - era jet trainer . So , you could receive flight training in a T-33 , which is a trainer-compatible straight-wing turbojet with more similarities in its flight characteristics to the A-10 than differences . Coupled with ground instruction and/or simulator time on the specific systems of the A-10 ( Which wo n't include any weapons integration , but honestly for the A-10A that was a single FLIR display and the arming/firing switches , and the C variant only upgraded that to a pair of MFDs ; other than relative positioning , the flight instruments of the A-10 would be familiar to any PPL ) , you could be certified to fly your A-10 solo without any flight hours in an A-10 specifically . The same might apply to aircraft that do have two-seater variants but where the flight school is unable to procure one . If you won the Powerball , and put a chunk of that money into your very own milsurp F-15C ( \ $ 38 million a pop back when they were being made and that 's in late 1970s dollars ) , it 's highly unlikely your local flight school would be willing to pony up for an F-15D two-seat configuration to train you on it ( unless you bought the plane for them with another big chunk of your lottery winnings ) . They might , however , have a T-38 in their inventory or be able to loan one from the nearby naval air station , which would give you a primer into the capabilities of a multi-engine turbofan ex-military fighter . Honestly , though , if you wanted to fly an F-15 , you 'll probably want a two-seater , and your CPL , so you could give rides to paying customers and offset the cost of running this beast ( typical fuel load without droptanks , 13,500 lbs which is about 1,985 gallons . With Jet A running about \ $ 4.85 / gallon , the cost of a fillup would be somewhere in the $ 10,000 neighborhood which would give you a cruising range of about 1,000 miles , so you could offer this as a special type of jet taxi ) . Here 's some more reading on the subject : <URL>
end question
start question
Why do pilots disable the air-conditioning ' packs ' during takeoff ?
The " packs " ( or A/C on the aircraft ) are powered by engine bleed air . When bleed air is extracted from the engines , less thrust can be produced . This may be a problem if the airplane is taking off at a high elevation airport or the departure path requires a certain climb gradient to clear obstacles . This action does create some discomfort in the cabin so it 's usually not preferred unless required for safety . Some newer airplanes are manufactured with an " APU to pack " configuration - i.e. the pilots leave the APU running during takeoff , which provides bleed air to power the packs . The workload on the engines are now reduced .
It happens when the airplane levels off after takeoff , usually either at the first assigned altitude or at a safe altitude where it will be accelerated in order to retract the flaps . The feeling is a result of negative vertical acceleration . It can also happen at other times during the flight , such as during turbulence or when starting a descent . Basically you and the airplane are both in a steady climb and when the aircraft levels off you continue to move up faster so it ( via the seatbelt ) keeps you at its same level and decelerates your own personal vertical climb . It is just like the feeling you get in a roller coaster . My wife calls it a wee-hill ! :-) EDIT : Another more familiar example happens anytime that you are traveling in a car : If you are in a car moving at a constant speed ( let 's say 55 MPH ) you are moving at the same speed along with it . When the brakes of the car are engaged , they slow the car down but your inertia tends to keep you moving in the direction that the car was going . This will be more noticeable as the brakes are applied harder and harder because the deceleration of the car is more extreme . You will notice this as pressure against the seat belt as the car holds you in place . You are still moving forward , but you are getting slower ( decelerating ) . In an airplane the exact same thing is happening only it is in a vertical direction instead of a horizontal direction like in the car . What you are feeling is your stomach floating up a little inside your body , because while the seat belt is holding you down , it does n't hold your stomach in place !
<URL> has the following duties : Plan and execute theater air operations Analyze national defense strategy Develop and conduct flying and simulation exercises Conduct , manage , evaluate and improve unit training and readiness Create operational policies Further information can be found at <URL> . In USAirForce , there are seven categories of aeronautical ratings . They are : Pilot Navigator Combat Systems Officer ( CSO ) Air Battle Manager ( ABM ) RPA Pilot Observer Flight Surgeon For further reading about these ratings , read <URL> .
Guiding is called <URL> and can be requested . A follow-me car can also be used to guide the plane . In some airports the follow-me car is <URL> , as well as its fees . By Frank Schwichtenberg ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> In most cases the pilots use charts . Either paper or electronic . Some electronic charts offer a moving map feature , whereby the crew can see their position on the map . Lastly , there 's the new follow-the-greens ( <URL> ) method , in which the ATC programs the taxi route and the crew are then guided by smart green lights . Follow-the-greens cockpit video / ATC audio in Singapore Changi can be <URL> . In all cases , except for follow-the-greens , the route is given . Runway [ number ] , taxi via [ route ] . ( USA . ) Taxi to holding point [ number ] runway [ number ] via [ route ] . ( Europe and elsewhere . ) It 's worth mentioning that the taxiways are marked by <URL> as well . By Bin im Garten ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL>
They <URL> hot compressed air from inside the jet engines , cool it down and pass it into the cabin . There are outlet valves in the fuselage that allow stale air out and which control cabin pressure and air-refresh rates . A few aircraft types , such as the 787 , now use a compressor to take in air from under the aircraft . They do this because it can be more fuel-efficient ( not for any other reason ) . It is arguable whether it creates an additional fire hazard . See also <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes . Fighter aircraft have air conditioning systems . In general , they are called as Environmental Conditioning Systems ( ECS ) . Their primary functions ( as far as cockpit goes ) include , Cockpit Pressurization Heating/Cooling/air-conditioning Windshield anti-fog/anti-ice The systems usually use conditioned engine bleed air or this purpose . The cockpit air conditioning is usually managed by the pilot . For example , in case of F-15 , the <URL> : <URL> Image from f-15e . info with the available controls listed as , TEMP switch : A three-way switch to manage cockpit temperature . When AUTO , cockpit temperature is automatically maintained at the temperature selected on the TEMP knob . When MANUAL , cockpit temperature may be changed with the knob , but not maitained automatically . When OFF , it shuts down off ECS air . TEMP knob : A rotary knob to set the cockpit temperature . FLOW switch : A three-way switch to select air flow . MIN , MAX and NORM settings are available for minimum/maximum/normal air flow , respectively . FLOW knob : A four-position knob to set the air source . When BOTH , bleed air is supplied from both engines . When L ENG or R ENG , bleed air is supplied from the left/right engine only . When OFF , no bleed air is supplied . The following image shows the other controls associated with ECS . <URL> Image from f-15e . info
Well , sort of . The Kennedy Space Center , where the shuttle operations were conducted , <URL> . but then , the show was run by NASA , not FAA . The shuttle operations were coordinated through the Aerospace Control Officer ( ACO ) at the Air Force 45 th Space Wing 's Eastern Range ( it used a military TACAN ) . FAA was informed of the shuttle landing and nothing else . NASA simply cleared the airspace for a 30 mile radius around the intended landing site to prevent collisions . In the trajectory of the shuttle landing , FAA issued a NOTAM called ' Space Shuttle Landing Operations Advisory ' to warn the users that 25 miles to either side of the nominal reentry trajectory is potentially vulnerable to debris , but the airspace is not closed , like this example : FDC 9/1945 ( A0856/09 ) - ... SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS ADVISORY ... EFFECTIVE 0911271848 UTC UNTIL 0911271923 UTC SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS 25 NM EITHER SIDE OF THE LINE BETWEEN 2743S/17214W 0411N/16214W 2925N/13455W 3440N/11828W 3457N/11745W FROM SURFACE TO UNLIMITED . WIE UNTIL UFN . CREATED : 25 NOV 21:11 2009 For these actions , Special Use Airspace was activated . The ACO coordinates these actions with the FAA 's ARTCC ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) in Miami , Florida
pilots need to be able to do work during turbulence . passengers do n't really like to be fully restrained .
You just fly your profile . Initially its with an instructor , but eventually you move on to training by yourself/copilot . You can practice full autos ( to a landing ) , but some airframes practice to a hover or in early stages . In the TH-57B ( Bell 206 ) , you can take it a full power-off landing during training since it is light enough . However , moving up to the TH-57C you do power-on recoveries , where you run the twistgrip back up to full open while you 're in the flare . You then initiate the recovery to arrive at a standard 5-foot hover . The C model has significantly more weight , which is the main reason . In the MH-60S its all power-on , recovery to a hover . Except we do not go to idle like in the 57s , we just rapidly lower the collective to get the needle split . Same process in practicing your scan , initiating the flare , and then pulling in power at the appropriate height once you 've leveled . Finish at 10 feet with some forward speed . ( Rumor is that Army does full practice autos in their 60s , but never confirmed that ) . Navy prohibits it in the MH-60S and almost certainly in the MH-60R as well . The explanation I received is that the airframe is meant to absorb the impact similar to your car during a full auto , and thus full practices can structurally compromise the bird . Source : MH-60S driver
Answer is yes , good eye . From the A380 flight crew manual : <URL> You can <URL> .
If all ACM failed , an alarm would sound in the cockpit . And two messages would appear on the ECAM/EICAS ¹ . One indicating that the ACMs failed and the other indicating that cabin altitude ² is rising above desired level . Pilots would execute corresponding checklist , and the one for rising cabin altitude calls for rapid descent to 10,000 ft. That is the altitude where humans can breathe safely . If the problem is a hole in the fuselage , the oxygen masks would drop to allow breathing until the aircraft descends , and emergency descent ( with full spoilers ) would be done . But if it is just failed pressurization , the outflow valve would close and the pressure would only decrease slowly , so the aircraft would most likely descend before the masks would be needed and they would not release . Even normal rate of descent is usually sufficient in such case . If you 're flying above mountains , there are additional rules where to fly to avoid any terrain rising above 10,000 ft , which will be part of the flight plan . For example flying along the mountains of Peru , you 'd need to deviate toward the ocean during such descent . Now at lower altitude , the aircraft flies slower while burning more fuel , so it probably wo n't be able to make it to the original destination any more . However when planning flight and calculating the required fuel this is taken into account , so the aircraft has enough fuel that it can make it to one of suitably selected diversion airfields if it needs to descend to 10,000 ft at any point along the route . ¹ Modern aircraft have a display on which information about any problems and abnormal conditions is printed , which is called <URL> by Airbus and <URL> by Boeing . Older aircraft had large panels of warning lights . ² Pressure in the cabin is usually given as altitude at which that pressure occurs in standard atmosphere . Normal cabin altitude is 7,000 -- 8,000 ft , 10,000 ft is maximum safe altitude ( with generous safety margin ) . The oxygen masks fall out if the cabin altitude exceeds 14,000 ft.
In the C172S POH I have , it 's on p. ii ( Performance - Specifications ) : 960ft ground roll and 1630ft total over a 50ft obstacle . The note on p. iii says : The above performance figures are based on airplane weights at 2550 pounds , standard atmospheric conditions , level , hard-surfaced dry runways and no wind . They are calculated values derived from flight tests conducted by Cessna Aircraft Company under carefully documented conditions and will vary with individual airplanes and numerous factors affecting flight performance . In other words , it 's a useful number to know but you 're unlikely to get exactly that performance unless you 're a Cessna test pilot in a brand new aircraft . If you own the aircraft ( or rent it often ) you might want to spend some time actually measuring takeoff distances yourself , to see what performance you 're really getting .
Do civilian space ships count ? In the <URL> the captain survived . The plane broke up around him and he was able to unstrap his seat after which his parachute automatically deployed . The co-pilot died in the crash .
The " packs " ( or A/C on the aircraft ) are powered by engine bleed air . When bleed air is extracted from the engines , less thrust can be produced . This may be a problem if the airplane is taking off at a high elevation airport or the departure path requires a certain climb gradient to clear obstacles . This action does create some discomfort in the cabin so it 's usually not preferred unless required for safety . Some newer airplanes are manufactured with an " APU to pack " configuration - i.e. the pilots leave the APU running during takeoff , which provides bleed air to power the packs . The workload on the engines are now reduced .
They are n't " almost uniformly sheepskin " , but they are absolutely uniformly flame-resistant ( or self-extinguishing ) as required for aircraft certification . Sheepskin ( and other natural wool fabrics ) are both flame resistant and self-extinguishing ( which is why <URL> are often made of wool ) , and sheepskin tends to wear well , so it 's a good choice for the two seats that will absolutely always be occupied when an aircraft is being operated . In terms of comfort , sheepskin covers also breathe well ( so the pilots are n't sweating profusely while operating the aircraft - one of the reasons they 're popular accessories for cars ) . Other popular fabric choices are natural leather , flame-resistant synthetic leather ( vinyl ) , and various other textiles which pass the FAA " burn test " requirements ( test procedures are described in <URL> for light aircraft , <URL> for transport category aircraft ) .
I found this answer is a good analysis . <URL> " Another possible procedure ( which is usually not recommended ) is to keep the flaps retracted until you are ready to leave the runway . Less flaps means less incidence . A big disadvantage is that " popping " the flaps like this increases your workload at a time when there are lots of other things you should be attending to . Another disadvantage is that you run the risk of extending the flaps past the takeoff position to the landing position , creating lots of drag , which is really not what you want in this situation . If your POH calls for this procedure , go ahead , but be careful . Make sure you have some sort of detent to block inadvertent over-extension . " -- <URL>
As the previous answers have stated , their schedules are determined by what best suits their needs . However , those schedules can be complicated by contractual and curfew requirements . A contractual example : Thousands of expatriate Brits live in the south of Spain . They want their morning London papers . We would depart Stansted ( just north of London ) as soon as possible . We were contractually committed to have the load to Barcelona by 07:00 local , with huge penalties if we failed ( the papers were worthless by noon ) , and then on to Palma de Mallorca . Hopefully by now , they transmit the papers electronically and print them locally . A curfew example : A cargo flight departing Hong Kong bound for Chitose , Japan ( refuel there then on to Anchorage ) . The old Kai Tak airport at Hong Kong had a 23:00 local curfew ; Chitose had a curfew until 06:00 local . The solution to that was to depart Hong Kong just before the curfew , land at Taipei and park for a couple of hours ( I forget the exact time ) , and then continue to Chitose to arrive just after 06:00 local . All Japan airports at the time had a curfew from 23:00 local to 06:00 . You could go out to the south end of the airport just before 06:00 local , and set your watch by the first arrival of what was tens of aircraft , both passenger and cargo , whose departure time was determined by the need to arrive as soon as possible after the airport opened
Most airplanes have a POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) with a table on aircraft distances . <URL> .
<URL> In the U.S. , for Military aircraft , ATC is required to : " Remind aircraft to check wheels down on each approach unless the pilot has previously reported wheels down for that approach " . [ ref : <URL> , para . 2-1-24 ] Normally , the phraseology suggested in your question would reflect the pilot 's response to this ATC reminder . ( For example : " [ call sign ] Check Wheels Down , Cleared for [ whatever ] " )
It 's perfectly legal , but check the Chart Supplement ( or AFD , or instrument approaches ) to see if there are special exceptions for that airport . If it is a non-towered airport and you are n't assigned a runway , you should of course try to use the prevailing runway that is already in use by other traffic in the pattern when it makes sense . Some airports have obstructions in one direction of their runways that make it necessary ( or safer ) to always land or depart in a certain direction . Some runways have a steep incline in one direction , making it preferable to land upslope and depart downslope . ( For example <URL> ) It 's also common for larger airports to have preferred directions for arrival or departures in order to keep the flight volume high , even when the wind prefers other runways . However , that usually relates to operating with intentional crosswinds at an airport that has parallel runways in a primary direction ( allowing them to conduct more simultaneous flight operations ) , but not in the intersecting direction .
end question
start question
Are type-C doors plug doors ?
No , they are not . Most ( not sure if all ) Airbus door are not plug-type . And neither are cargo door on most Boeing types .
Airbus used standard Intel 80186 and Motorola 68010 CPUs with 2.5 MiB of memory in the FBW system for A320 . Exactly the same chips that were used for computers at the time ( around 1985 ) so they were not expensive and were already tested . Over time they upgraded to newer version of those CPUs . Each computer is composed from two boards with different CPUs , one produces the control output and the other verifies it and shuts the unit down if they disagree . The boards run different standard embedded operating systems and the software was written by two independent teams to minimize risk of the same failure mode in both boards . Each board only does a little bit of work and the important units have backups . There are 4 units processing the sidestick input , 3 controlling elevator and ailerons , 3 controlling spoilers and elevator trim , IIRC 2 for yaw damper ( FAC ) , 2 for each engine digital control , 1 for each display etc. . The requirements did n't really increase much since then . It is still desired that the tasks are split across many independent boards to minimize effects of one of them failing . So a CPU with few MHz clock rate and few MB of memory would still be able to do the job . But such slow chips are not manufactured anymore , so they are probably using whatever was most common chips few years ago .
Incidental costs specific to the passenger , such as O2 for the passenger 's medical condition , may be paid by the passenger and need not be factored into the cost of the flight for flight sharing costs . In your example , the Hobbs charge for the aircraft is the flight cost . If the passenger wants a headset , or anything else that is not a flight expense , the cost need not be shared . Landing fees , navigation fees and the like are grey areas , and I would split those . But something like a tie-down or hangar fee is not a flight expense , and the passenger may pay for in full . If you read cases where the FAA has prosecuted pilots for conducting operations " for hire " or similar , they tend to be egregious . So in your example , $ 60 would be the right answer . I would suggest that you could even split the cost of the charts you might buy for the trip . As a final word , I would make certain that your passenger understands that you are just sharing expenses , not that they are " paying for a ride . "
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
Either C or D controllers will likely accept your requested heading , which can be given as a rough compass point , on initial contact . This contact will be after picking up the terminal info on ATIS , when you contact ground . Your preferred direction will be passed up the chain . A class D may tell you something like " cleared for takeoff , Northbound departure approved " , in which case I would feel free to turn as soon as I deemed it safe . In a class C scenario , the same thing could happen , but they might vector you around other traffic . In all cases " resume own navigation " will be permission to take your heading . If you are still on runway heading and feel you have not been given a clearance sending you where you want to go , you may contact tower or departure control , depending on whom you are with , and say something like " Tower , Diamond two-eight bravo , request heading zero six zero " They may respond with an " approved as requested " or " heading zero six zero approved " or they may give you instructions to " fly present heading , I 'll call your turn " indicating they are not ready for you to take your heading yet . The short answer is , you can take your heading when you have been cleared to do so . Understanding when you have been cleared is a matter of becoming familiar with standard phraseology . Controllers I have worked with , especially at C and D airspaces have been accommodating . Their job is to send pilots where they want to go while keeping aircraft out of each other 's way . They have rolled along with me when I have changed my mind about landing , I can say " I changed my mind , I 'd rather depart the pattern to the south " but to be brief I 'll say " Cancel landing intention , request south departure . " As airspace gets bigger and controllers are busier ( which can vary by location and even time of day ) brevity becomes increasingly important . To get practice , you can find out when an particular airspace is less busy . Controllers have been known to be chatty when traffic volume is low , and you may even be able to ask questions about preferred phraseology .
The life ( Low Cycle Fatigue life ) on the Civil airliners is generally talked abut in terms of number of cycles i.e. number of flights . And since airliners undertake quite predictable flights in terms of loads and stresses , and typically a very limited variations among these parameters for their entire life ( since any aircraft would be designed for certain type of range and payload and would be used for that particular purpose mainly , for economic reasons ) , its easy to talk in terms of number cycles , since variations from flight to flight are limited . But this issue of keeping track of actual mission profile is very critical for fighter ( actually any military jet but I would restrict myself to only Fighters because its easier to point out the things for this case ) jets which have quite unpredictable usage profile . Any fighter jet is typically designed for a certain mission mix i.e. mixture of a bunch of mission profiles that the fighter is expected to carry with the expected relative frequency ( which comes from the past experience of an Air Force ) . But still in real life , the actual missions flown end up being quite different that this assumed mission mix . Now it is possible to utilize the airframe structural life to best possible extent by keeping track of actual mission profiles flown and debiting life for each mission from the designed number of hours . Obviously one needs to calculate the life debit for actual mission flown in terms of the equivalent hours for assumed designed mission mix . Say a fighter is designed for 8000hrs assuming it will fly 10 times of missions with certain frequency , and it recently flew a mission for which we know the parameter , then what would be the number of hours of equivalent life that was utilized from this 8000hrs . . ? To calculate this we need the loading parameters of each mission such as how many Gs were pulled for how long time intervals , how many rolls performed with what roll rate and so on . Every aircraft has system which collects this information ( measured by various sensors ) for entire mission . Once on the ground , this information is fed to what is called as " Life Tracking System " . It analyses the data , calculates how many hours of debit this mission took on the airframe and then decides what is remaining life . This can be done at component level as well and one can keep track of available life of each component and accordingly schedule maintenance for each component individually . I am not sure how this is exactly done for entire aircraft ( Looking for Patents by Aircraft OEMs would be a good way to start digging in ) , but I know for the Jet engines . The methodology should be the same in principle . Specifics might change . I suggest you read about Volvo Aero RM12 Life Tracking System ( LTS ) which finds its origin in GE 's LTS for F404 . ( <URL> ) and <URL> . Essentially all OEMs have similar systems now . RM12 has improved utility of the engine by ~ 30 % i.e. the engine is used for 30 % more time now as compared to the case where LTS was not used and differences in missions were not accounted for . Because many missions do not take as much toll on the structural life as it was expected during design ( or more number of less stressful missions are flown in actual practice than it was assumed for design ) . Most popular technique used to calculate the equivalent LCF life debit for each mission considering variations in loads and stresses for each mission specifically is known as <URL> . The process essentially looks like this : <URL> You apply the actual measured loads and see what stresses the analysis predicts for each mission . Then apply Rain flow Counting to calculate accumulated structural fatigue damage and residual life remaining . Rain drop counting is the model which helps you covert the irregular fatigue loading ( i.e. varying missions ) to equivalent cyclic loading and thereby coming up with a life debit number which is equivalent to the design mission mix and which you can subtract from the designed life hours . That 's how you can take care of variation in the missions and loadings in each mission .
There is a description of this route page <URL> . <URL> The scan is not good , you may get the textual content <URL> . It says terrain following activities may take place , as well as visual contours ( which I assume to be navigating without radar , looking at the outdoor and searching in a catalog the same relief contour to know where you are ) . As you commented , taking into account the local relief : For terrain following should be for newbies . For visual contours navigation should be for top-guns only . There are different routes like this , starting from nowhere and ending in the Smoky MOA . They seem to be routes avoiding nearby airfields . On the image below , I 've emphasized the area without airfields , including MOAs . It looks like IR-504 is drawn along the centerline . <URL> Based on <URL> Other possible selection criteria : Unpopulated areas ( noise from low flying jets ) Low radio noise areas . Flat terrain for UAV training .
in law generally means according to a calculation or apportionment formula - in the context of the FARs that formula is generally assumed to be $ \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { nOccupants } \ right ) $ as Hugh noted . I actually went on a dive through <URL> on how they deal with the pro rata bit and found nothing applicable to this situation , so what follows is an interpretation crafted out of my own slightly deranged mind , but it seems sensible to me . Interestingly while digging around I found nothing in the FARs or interpretations that would seem to preclude <URL> for pro rata share than " divide by the number of people in the plane " , but neither is there anything I can find to support doing so , and I imagine it would be much harder to justify to your local FSDO if questions came up . For the sake of simplicity ( and our collective sanity ) let 's stick with " simple division " as the formula . The FARs specify that the pilot may not pay less than their pro rata share of operating expenses associated with the flight . So , if we have 4 occupants of the aircraft ( Mom , Dad , Baby , and Pilot ) and they go for a hundred-dollar hamburger the simple division method says pilot can not pay less than one-fourth of the operating expenses associated with the flight . If we say the expenses work out to be \ $ 100 ( for the sake of easy math ) the pilot has to pay at least \ $ 25 . The FAA does n't much care where the rest of the money comes from because it 's implicit in the regulations that the pilot is n't keeping it ( the money would be going into the hands of the FBO for fuel , oil , ramp fees , etc. ) -- Mom &amp; Dad could pay $ 37.50 each ( covering themselves plus the baby ) or split it up between themselves in any other way they wish and this is still acceptable under the regulations as long as the pilot has paid their pro rata share of the expenses . The pilot can certainly pay more than the simple-divison pro rata share of expenses ( and generally that 's the most equitable option - figure out who 's paying , divide by that number , and make sure the pilot is in the " paying " group to stay on the right side of the regulations ) . In your example you would split the cost up among the three adults ( each paying $ 33.33 , and the pilot generally kicking in the extra penny ) . The same logic in both of these arguments would apply if we were n't talking about a baby , but rather a third friend that you all decided to treat to a trip .
Fuel bias is as you described it . As the engine ages , it burns more fuel than a brand new one . The fuel flow ( and drag ) corrections are entered into the FMS . This would allow the FMS calculated quantity not to disagree with the tanks totalizer . The figures are based off previous flights and engine tests . Maintenance personnel can refine the database by entering correction factors for drag and fuel flow . ( 737 manual ) also There are also " biases " to consider , depending on the make and model of aircraft . For example with Gulfstream aircraft , our flight planning experts typically add a 16 % bias for flights of less than three hours . However , biases depend on the age of the aircraft , how the operator flies it , planned flight level , and speed . So , it 's best practice for operators to compare actual fuel burns with flight plan burns to confirm accuracy . ( <URL> ) Boeing does not call it bias when I checked the 787/737 manuals , but ' bias ' is likely a flight planning software term . <URL> ( <URL> ) From a flight planner for a flight sim . <URL> ( <URL> ) Random real flight plan . Note : company software differs . <URL> Boeing 787 FMS interface where the drag and fuel flow corrections are entered .
<URL> has a great post today about <URL> . There are a few basic reasons . Reliability Having two sparks plugs is more reliable . If one spark plug becomes inoperative for some reason , there 's a second to provide the spark for the power stroke . It should also be noted that the spark plugs are usually powered by dual , independent magnetos or , in some cases , an electronic capacitor discharge ignition . The redundancy of the ignition system adds to the reliability . More Power Having two spark plugs means the flame ignites from two points leading to more power per power stroke . This point is demonstrated during run-up . When the magneto check is done the engine RPMs drop when running on a single mag and set of spark plugs . Even Combustion Two sparks plugs and a two flame front leads to a more even burn of the fuel air mixture for a smoother running engine . Prevent Fouling Aircraft engines burn leaded fuel which can lead to getting lead deposits on the spark plugs . Having dual plugs leads to a more complete burn which can prevent the deposits from forming .
A lot of this has to do with whether or not you 're talking to ATC . If you 're talking to ATC and your Mode C disappears or goes insane they 'll ask you to report your altitude ( and if your Mode C altitude reporting is wildly off they 'll probably tell you something like " Stop altitude squawk - altitude differs by 500 feet " . This is your cue to take the plane to an avionics shop and have the system checked/serviced , and not to attempt to enter B or C airspace , or fly above 10,000 MSL , until its fixed . In most cases ATC will continue to work you in the system until you are clear of the Mode C veil ( possibly expediting your exit if having no altitude readout on your target is messing up their day ) because it 's better to be talking to you than not . If you 're not talking to ATC things get a bit more complex : If your Mode C altitude readout is missing ATC will generally report you as " traffic , altitude unknown " to other aircraft and apply lateral separation exclusively ( nobody is allowed within the minimum lateral separation distance of your target unless they have you in sight and can maintain visual separation ) . If/When other pilots spot you ATC will usually ask them for your type and altitude so they have some idea of who you are and what you 're doing . If your encoder or transponder is malfunctioning and reporting an incorrect altitude that 's substantially more dangerous : ATC has no way of verifying your altitude other than asking you ( or another pilot ) , so they 'll be maintaining separation based on an incorrect altitude . This is why even VFR aircraft equipped with Mode C need an encoder check . In this case ATC will find out about a malfunction when you 're called as traffic to someone and they respond with " Is that my traffic above/below me ? "
Answer based on information found on-line . Related documentation : USAF <URL> C-130T <URL> Lockheed <URL> KC-130 <URL> KC-130J <URL> C-130 <URL> C-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) The KC-130 Hercules is the tanker variant of the C-130 Hercules . The cargo opening consists of a door , and a ramp which can be operated separately . The door is opened by rotating up and inwards the top panel . The ramp is opened by rotating down and outwards the lower panel ( source : <URL> ) KC-130 / C-130 have a <URL> at low speed . From the the C-130 flight manual : Door and loading ramp are operated at a speed of 150 KIAS , with flaps down at 50 % . Same conditions for flying with door and/or loading ramp open . Low speed adjustments : Reducing speed from 300 kt to 150 kt requires nose up trimming . The center of gravity may be adjusted by ballasting fuel in the tanks ( refueling tank and aircraft tanks ) . Opening the ramp will change the aerodynamic shape of the aircraft : The ramp will not be moved past the horizontal position ( only need for full down position is to load cargo on the ground ) . Moves the nose down . Balanced by some trim accordingly . If loads are dropped ( pallets , paratroopers ) or fuel is delivered , the center of gravity will roll back , with a significant nose-down tendency , and trimming will be required . Opening the door will be less of an issue as seen on the image below : The aircraft is near level . Above : KC-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) . Note that the attitude is not so far from level , in spite the door is open .
You did n't specify the jurisdiction that you were asking about , but in the US there is a regulation that covers the minimum that you must do before flying . Much of it is common sense : You want to check the weather , because it can impact you much more than it usually does in your car and you do n't want to get stuck in a really bad situation . You want to check the Notices to Airmen ( NOTAMs ) to make sure that you can use the airport ( i.e. it is n't closed , or the runway is n't closed , etc. ) You want to make sure that you have enough fuel , because you ca n't just pull over at the nearest gas station when you get low . You want to make sure that the runways are long enough and that the airplane can climb well enough so that you do n't crash into something . That being said , if you are familiar with the area and the airports in the area , you have used them before and are already familiar with the performance numbers for your airplane , then you do n't really need to do much more than check the weather/NOTAMs and make sure that your airplane is legal and safe to fly . Things are a little different than back in the barnstorming days , but then there are fewer accidents too . :-) <URL> Each pilot in command shall , before beginning a flight , become familiar with all available information concerning that flight . This information must include -- ( a ) For a flight under IFR or a flight not in the vicinity of an airport , weather reports and forecasts , fuel requirements , alternatives available if the planned flight can not be completed , and any known traffic delays of which the pilot in command has been advised by ATC ; ( b ) For any flight , runway lengths at airports of intended use , and the following takeoff and landing distance information : ( 1 ) For civil aircraft for which an approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual containing takeoff and landing distance data is required , the takeoff and landing distance data contained therein ; and ( 2 ) For civil aircraft other than those specified in paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this section , other reliable information appropriate to the aircraft , relating to aircraft performance under expected values of airport elevation and runway slope , aircraft gross weight , and wind and temperature .
The wing planform ( which is the shape and layout of wing ) for each aircraft is mainly based on the aerodynamic requirements . There are other considerations like stealth , controllability etc. . The basic terminology in the wing geometry is given in the figure below . <URL> Source : grc.nasa.gov Most of the wing platforms in use ( or have been used ) fall under one of these categories . Elliptical Aerodynamically , the elliptical planform is the most efficient as elliptical spanwise lift distribution has the lowest possible induced drag ( as given by thin airfoil theory ) . However , the most important disadvantage of the elliptical wing is that its manufacturability is poor . Perhaps the most famous aircraft with elliptical planform is the <URL> , used in Battle of Britan . <URL> " <URL> " by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) - Own work . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Interestingly , the elliptical wing was not decided to minimize induced drag , but to house the retractable landing gear along with guns and ammunition inside a wing that had to be thin . As per designer Beverly Shenstone , The ellipse was simply the shape that allowed us the thinnest possible wing with room inside to carry the necessary structure and the things we wanted to cram in . And it looked nice . Some aircraft like the <URL> had a semi elliptical wing , with only the leading or trailing edge elliptical . <URL> " <URL> " by Unknown - <URL> . Licensed under CC0 via <URL> . Rectangular Arguably the simplest wing planform from a manufacturing point of view , the rectangular wing is a straight , untapered wing . A good example would be the light general aircraft like <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . The main disadvantage of this wing is that it is aerodynamically inefficient . Tapered Wing This is a modification of the rectangular wing where the chord is varied across the span to approximate the elliptical lift distribution . While not as efficient as the elliptical lift distribution , it offers a compromise between manufacturability and efficiency . A very good example of aircraft using this type of wing is the North American <URL> , which became the premier USAAF escort fighter against the Luftwaffe . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Constant Chord with Tapered Outer This is midway between the rectangular and the tapered wing , with the inner part having constant chord and the outer part having a taper . A very good example of this type of wing is the <URL> . <URL> Source : Almost all of the wings seen so far are used in subsonic aircraft due to the large drag caused by them in the transonic regime . Most of the wings used in supersonic aircraft fall under one of the following categories . Delta The delta is a very low aspect ratio wing used in supersonic aircraft , most notably in the European designs . The main advantages of the delta wing is that is efficient in all the flight regimes ( subsonic , transonic and supersonic ) . Also , the wing offers a large wing area for the shape , reducing wing loading and improving maneuverability . The delta wing design is also very strong structurally , offering large volume for internal fuel . The delta wings are also quite simple to build and maintain . The main disadvantages are that they have high induced drag due to low aspect ratio and also that they should have high angle of attack at low speeds ( takeoff and landing ) , mainly due to fact that at these speeds , lift is generated by vortices . To compensate for this , they have high stall angles . A very good example for this wing is the Dassault <URL> , which is an example of tailless delta i.e. without horizontal stabilizers . <URL> Source : www.aircraftrecognition.co.uk A variant of the delta wing used in some aircraft is the one with horizontal stabilizer ( tailed delta ) , the most famous of them being the Russian <URL> . <URL> Source : hdwallpapers.cat Another variant is the one used by the <URL> , the so called cropped delta , where the tips of the delta are ' cut off ' to reduce drag at high angles of attack . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . Yet another variant of the delta wing ( this planform is very popular in combat aircraft ) , is the so called double delta , where the leading edge angle is not constant , but has two different values . One good example of this is the <URL> ' Tejas ' under development in India . <URL> " <URL> " by Rinju9 - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Trapezoidal The trapezoidal wing is a high performance configuration such that the leading edge sweeps back and the trailing edge sweeps forward . This is mostly found in combat aircraft from the US . This wing configuration offers efficient supersonic flight and has very good stealth characteristics . However , the wing loading is quite high , resulting in reduced maneuverability , especially instantaneous turn rate . This wing configuration is used most notably in the Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor . <URL> " <URL> " by
The term is not " approved " , it is the complete phrase . This is the standard FAA term for what was previously called either or , and means " separation in accordance with the applicable minima in [ <URL> ] " . The separation minima are further defined in the JO 7110 family of FAA Air Traffic Control orders , which you can find linked from the page above .
Here in the US the FAA can impose a type rating on any aircraft it likes ( see part 3 below ) . Generally speaking type ratings are either for big planes or planes that may require additional training for safety reasons . You can find the full regulations relating to US type ratings in the FAR under <URL> but basically , ( a ) Type ratings required . A person who acts as a pilot in command of any of the following aircraft must hold a type rating for that aircraft : ( 1 ) Large aircraft ( except lighter-than-air ) . ( 2 ) Turbojet-powered airplanes . ( 3 ) Other aircraft specified by the Administrator through aircraft type certificate procedures . In specific relation to the Malibu the US FAA does not require a type rating , you can find a <URL> . However it should be noted that to fly Pipers <URL> and <URL> Malibu variants , both of which have a service ceiling over 25,000 Ft you would need a <URL> ( along with all the other endorsements for a high performance plane like that ) . The JAA may require such a rating due to the pressurization system in the plane .
You can read about some guidance from the FAA about HUD design in these two Advisory Circulars : <URL> <URL> <URL> is a bit dated but covers certification . It really depends on what exactly the HUD is supposed to do . Any pilot can bring a handheld GPS along , with the understanding that it is not an " official " navigation instrument . A HUD could be used in a similar way . There are a couple things to keep in mind : If the HUD is to be used for real navigation or pilot reference , then certification will be an issue . The handbook above talks about this . The HUD would need to be certified just like any other instruments in the cockpit for that use . If a HUD is used for special situations , like low visibility landing , it must be certified in order to be used in those situations . Otherwise you are not allowed to do anything you could not do without the HUD . Even if the HUD is not to be used for critical flight data , the HUD needs to comply with the FAR 25 sections 25.773 and 25.775 , which talk about the windows in the cockpit . The HUD ca n't interfere with the normal visibility the pilot should have .
Are there any still commercial airplanes in use that are still steerable with complete loss of all electric systems ? Do some commercial airplanes still have mechanical backup steering mechanisms ? <URL> On most ( * ) Airbus aircrafts , In case of a complete loss of electrical flight control signals , the aircraft can be temporarily controlled by mechanical mode . This is called and is the lowest level of control law ( after Normal , Alternate and Direct Laws ) The aircraft can be steered : Pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer by using the manual trim wheel . Lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . The pilots are notified with : A red MAN PITCH TRIM ONLY warning appears on the PFD . But : Both controls require hydraulic power . This means that if the aircraft looses BOTH electrical and hydraulic power , is no more controllable . Usually there are pressurised hydraulic reservoirs that allow to have a minimum of hydraulic power even if there is total loss of electrical power , but if there is substantial damage to the aircraft that has severed the hydraulic lines , this is no more applicable . ( * ) : beyond the A320 . Functionalities vary in <URL> : ( emphasys mine ) Primary Flight controls : Back-up Control Logical evolution of A320 / A340 / A340-600 family : Full Fly-By-Wire , with a " Back-up " as an additional precaution to keep control of the aircraft during temporary loss of : all Primary Flight Control computers all Electrical power supply A320 : full FBW controls , mechanical Back-up ( Pitch Trim &amp; Rudder ) A340/A330 : like A320 , additional Yaw Damper to improve Dutch Roll damping even in Back-up mode ( BYDU with hydraulic micro generator ) A340-600 : like A340 for pitch , Rudder becomes fully Electrical ( BPS + BCM : Back-up Power Supply + Control Module ) A380 : like A340-600 for Yaw control + BPS+BCM also power : Electrical Pitch Back-Up ( elevators ) linked to side-stick Electrical Roll Back-Up ( ailerons ) linked to side-stick Pitch Trim ( Wheel is replaced by Switches ) For the A380 , in particular : Active Stability Control functions : All levels of control laws ( Normal , Alternate , " Direct " and even Back-up ) include a Yaw and Pitch damping function
Runways are usually numbered according to their direction , more precisely called runway magnetic bearing or QFU ( <URL> ) . Consider a plane flying toward the runway on final approach in a day without any wind . Divide its magnetic heading by 10 , round it to the nearest whole number and you 'll usually get the runway number . For example , if the magnetic heading is 345 ° then 345/10 = 34,5 , so the runway number will be 35 which will be a runway used for landings ( and takeoffs ) to the north . Opposite ends of the same runway have different numbers , 18 ( which represents 180 degrees ) apart . A runway with 35 for landings to the north will have runway 17 for landings to the south . Even though these are the same strip of concrete , they are treated as separate runways by pilots and controllers . If there are two airports near one another with runways at the same angle , sometimes one of the airports will add or subtract one from the runway number to help planes differentiate between the airports . Occasionally a runway number will change when the magnetic declination angle changes in such amount , making the runway magnetic bearing divided by 10 and rounded to the nearest whole number increase or decrease . Some runways in areas of large magnetic declination use true instead of magnetic headings for the runway numbers . This is not unusual in northern Canada and Greenland . When there is more than one parallel runway at an airport , L , R , or C may be appended to the runway number for Left , Right , or Center . These are based on the approach direction , so , for example , the runway 35L would be called 17R from the opposite direction .
Wind is measured in true airspeed . That 's why whether it 's surface wind or a jet stream , subtracting the head/tail wind component from the airplane 's TAS yields the ground speed ( tailwind being a negative value ) . And a 25 knots crosswind -- the example you give -- will create the same crab angle for the same TAS being flown . But since pilots fly using IAS , the crab angle will be smaller the higher the airport . Cup Think of a cup anemometer , if the air is lighter ( high altitude , high temp ) , there will be lower resistance and the same wind speed will result in the <URL> : The remarkable thing is that the calibration does not depend on the air density . Who would have guessed ? The cup anemometer responds to wind forces , and those wind forces have a magnitude directly proportional to density . Yet because in a steady state those forces are balanced , density vanishes as a factor . The same thing applies to the propeller-vane anemometer . Tube In tube anemometers ( <URL> ) , corrections are <URL> : [ Due ] to differing temperature , elevation or barometric pressure , a correction is required to obtain the actual wind speed . Approximately 1.5 % ( 1.6 % above 6,000 feet ) should be added to the velocity recorded by a tube anemometer for each 1000 ft ( 5 % for each kilometer ) above sea-level . Ultrasonic Ultrasonic anemometers are like cup anemometers , density is cancelled out since measurements are taken in <URL> : [ Scalar ] values ( temperature , humidity , density ) are eliminated and the result comprises wind speed .
end question
start question
What are the effects of an increase in altitude upon ESHP of a turboprop engine ?
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
There are two factors which limit the possible speed of piston engines : <URL> , and relative speed of moving parts , here the pistons in their cylinder barrels . If the engine runs too fast , the flame front originating from the spark plug will not have traveled far enough to have burnt most of the fuel by the time the piston moves down again . This puts a fundamental limit to the growth in power output over speed in piston engines . Also , if the relative speed between moving parts is too high , the lubrication will fail and the parts will overheat quickly . In order to run at the highest possible speed , <URL> used castor oil , which in turn motivated early aviators to wear long scarves over their mouth so their digestive system would not be compromised by sitting right in the exhaust stream of their engine . Today , lubricants have improved but still set a clear limit to the maximum speed at which a piston engine can be run . Cooling can be managed by pressurizing the cooling system and improving radiator and pump performance while inertial loads on the engine components can be dealt with by lightweight , high-strength materials . Reducing the <URL> will allow a higher speed before the ignition limit bites while reducing the <URL> will reduce piston speeds , again allowing a higher engine speed before lubrication fails . An optimimized engine will balance both so that the possible speed can be fully exploited . For the IO-360 and IO-540 , those dimensions are 5 ⅛ " and 4 ⅜ " , respectively . This places them below the <URL> and closer to the typical <URL> . I could not find reliable data on the engine speed of <URL> , which should come close to the maximum sensible engine speed at that size class . The best I could find was the 3,700 RPM of the <URL> , an engine with 5.9 " bore and 6.5 " stroke , so I would guess by using good fuel and lubrication , the Lycoming might end up somewhere between 4000 and 4500 RPM . I 'm sceptical that much useful power can be extracted at 5000 RPM and am sure that the lifetime at this speed will be measured in minutes , not hours .
Fluid Types <URL> contains a good summary of the different types of fluid : Types Type I fluids have a low viscosity , and are considered " unthickened " . They provide only short term protection because they quickly flow off surfaces after use . They are typically sprayed on hot ( 130 -- 180 ° F , 55-80 ° C ) at high pressure to remove snow , ice , and frost . Usually they are dyed orange to aid in identification and application . Type II fluids are pseudoplastic , which means they contain a polymeric thickening agent to prevent their immediate flow off aircraft surfaces . Typically the fluid film will remain in place until the aircraft attains 100 knots or so ( almost 200 km/h ) , at which point the viscosity breaks down due to shear stress . The high speeds required for viscosity breakdown means that this type of fluid is useful only for larger aircraft . The use of type II fluids is diminishing in favour of type IV . Type II fluids are generally light yellow in color . Type III fluids can be thought of as a compromise between type I and type II fluids . They are intended for use on slower aircraft , with a rotation speed of less than 100 knots . Type III fluids are generally light yellow in color . Type IV fluids meet the same AMS standards as type II fluids , but they provide a longer holdover time . They are typically dyed green to aid in the application of a consistent layer of fluid . Chemical Composition The main component of deicing fluid is usually propylene glycol or ethylene glycol . Other ingredients vary depending on the manufacturer , but the exact composition of a particular brand of fluid is generally held as confidential proprietary information . Call ahead to the airport to see what kind of deice/anti-ice fluid that they have because each one is different . Time Limits Every year , the FAA publishes tables which include information about how long the various deice fluids will provide protection under various weather conditions . Here is an example table : For this particular fluid ( ABAX ECOWING AD-49 Type IV ) we can lookup a specific example such as : -10 Degrees Celcius 75 % fluid and 25 % water Light Snow This shows that the fluid will provide protection for 1:40 to 2:05 . If you are delayed longer than that , you will need to deice again . Since every part of the aircraft needs to be protected , the timing starts when they first start spraying the aircraft . Note that other types of fluid ( particularly Type I fluids ) have much shorter holdover times than this , so be careful and make sure that you check ! Resources <URL> <URL>
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
Two things : <URL> . This can be alleviated by carefully touching down , but you never know what exactly will happen in the next landing , so better do n't count on it to be smooth Deceleration distance : The higher mass requires a higher approach and touch down speed ( higher by the square root of the mass ratio between your actual mass and the maximum certified landing mass ) . Now you have more mass and more speed , but the landing strip and the airliner 's brakes are still the same . The risk is that you overshoot the runway with an airplane full of fuel or that you overheat the brakes ( which will result in their failure , and again an overshoot ) . Since the kinetic energy is proportional to mass times speed squared , the energy which needs to be absorbed by the brake goes up with the square of the mass increase . If the selected runway for your overweight landing is long enough and the weather is calm ( so a smooth landing is easier ) , an overweight landing is not such a problem . Now let 's look at the 777-300ER in detail . I use the figures from <URL> , because the <URL> is trying much harder to hide the relevant data . The MTOW ( maximum take-off weight , which is actually a mass ) is 351,534 kg , and the maximum landing weight is 251,290 kg , about 100 tons less . Now let 's assume that <URL> and returning to the airfield uses 5 tons of fuel , so the mass ratio is 1.379 . Therefore , the approach speed has to be 17.4 % higher and the total kinetic energy at touchdown is higher by a factor of 1.9 compared to the case at maximum allowable landing weight . If we now assume that speed is reduced linearly during the landing run and that the wheel brakes will just absorb as much energy over time as in the case at maximum landing weight , the deceleration needs to be lower by the mass ratio , so the aircraft decelerates with only 72.5 % of the deceleration at maximum landing weight . To shed its kinetic energy , the landing run will take longer by the increase in kinetic energy , i.e. 1.9 . Since the average speed is also higher by 17.4 % , the landing distance will be higher by a factor of 2.233 or 223 % of the landing distance at maximum landing weight . This neglects that the heating of the brakes is an instationary process , so you can not simply brake with the same intensity for more than twice the time they were designed for . But this little estimation should illuminate what impact a higher landing mass has on the energy and distance involved .
Yes . <URL> Top result : <URL> Perhaps the most intriguing product floated by HBC at its NBAA press conference was a single-engine turboprop . The company says the airplane has no public name or designation but will " absolutely , " said Holcombe , be " called a King Air . " That name , of course , has never been bestowed upon a single-engine airplane before . This King Air , however , will be no scaled-back PT-6 single . Like the remarkably roomy and powerful Pilatus PC-12 , the Beechcraft single will be big . Its fuselage will be -- get this -- based on that of the Premier 1A , which , HBC claims , has the best cabin of any bizjet in its class . It will certainly be huge for a single . In addition to the voluminous cabin , the single would feature a large side loading door , room for eight to 11 occupants and industry-leading pressurization . The composite fuselage allows for efficient pressurization . HBC says it will build the fuselage in the same way it builds the Premier 1A today , using state-of-the-art winding technology for extremely light and strong composite structures . <URL>
Aviation headsets are just like gaming headsets on a computer or console gaming system , except they are sturdier and much more expensive . At the basic end of the spectrum , an aviation headset is just a big clamp style pair of around the ear headphones with a microphone . The cable from the headset has 2 plugs ( for airplanes ) or one plug ( for helicopters ) . These two plug styles are equivalent electronically , with the helicopter cable having an extra conductor in order to include the microphone and headphones in the same plug . The two-plug variant has one plug for the headphones and one of the microphone . These differ from gaming headsets in that the headphone plug is 0.25 " ( the kind a nice stereo receiver uses ) and the microphone plug is 0.206 " . This difference in sizes is to avoid mixing up which plug goes in which jack . Aviation headsets fall into two broad categories : passive noise reduction and active noise reduction ( ANR ) . The passive noise reduction headsets rely on a good seal around the ear and a strong clamping force ( e.g. David Clarks ) . Active noise reduction are somewhat less " clampy " and provide less passive protection but make up for this with the active protection . An ANR headset is money well spent , but these do top out at around \ $ 850 - \ $ 1000 for the top models from Lightspeed and Bose respectively . ANR headsets must be powered to work properly but all ANR headsets still function without power as passive noise reducing headsets . Power for an ANR headset can come from a battery box or from aircraft power but not interchangeably . Aircraft power requires panel installation of a plug specific to the headset brand ( a single connector provides power , headphone and microphone connections ) . In general , unless you happen to own an airplane and install the power plug , you should get the battery version of a headset . The primary purpose of these headsets is to reduce the noise in the cockpit ( they can be very loud ) in order to avoid hearing loss ( yes , it is that loud ) and to facilitate clearer communication with ATC . For quieter airplanes there are in-ear headsets that have more in common with earbuds than the bigger headsets . Some of these are just earplugs wired for sound and some use molds of your ear to provide the seal . The headset is connected to the airplanes audio panel . Audio panels vary in complexity but their basic job is to provide an intercom for communication between occupants of the airplane and access to the com radio for communication with ATC . The audio panel is also able to monitor ( listen ) the navigation radios certain types of beacons . In transport aircraft the audio panel is also tied into the passenger address system and the flight attendant 's phones in the cabin . The headsets can be operated in a hot mic setup or the mic can be explicitly turned on and off . The hot mic is the usual method and the audio panel provides a squelch control so you are n't broadcasting the cockpit noise when not talking . The ATC transmissions are via a push-to-talk ( PTT ) switch . Aviation headsets for the most part do not need to be approved to use in airplanes , but in some situations for US registered aircraft , the requirement of an approved headset can be mandated ( some ( all ? ) 121 carriers ) . The FAA standards for approval are specified in TSO C-57a and C-58a . You 'll find many , but certainly not all , aviation headsets conform to these orders . They define minimum performance characteristics of the electronics , speakers , microphones , etc that make up the headset . How much hearing protection is needed depends greatly on the specific airplane in question . Jets can be on the very loud end of the spectrum ( EMB-145 ) or they can be quiet enough that even passive noise reduction is largely unnecessary . For the noisy end of the spectrum peak wavelengths can be well in excess of 100 dB . I can find reports of 130 db in some smaller airplanes and reports of 84 db in a 737 during cruise , but these numbers are all anecdotal in nature . What is important to take from these is not the specific numbers but that they are high enough to cause hearing loss during prolonged exposure . The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders defines 85 dB as the threshold for hearing damage from long or repeated exposure . Passive headsets generally advertise noise reduction around 20 dB ( 23 dB for the venerable David Clarks ) and some people will wear earplugs under a headset to further increase the passive noise reduction . A cursory look at ANR headsets reveal that they tend not to advertise their performance and instead specify maximum ambient noise levels for ANR to properly function ( around 120-125 dB for Bose and Lightspeed headsets ) . I can personally add an anecdote that both the Lightspeed Zulu and Bose X make dramatic changes in noise level ( both of these headsets are now outdated and replaced by newer versions ) . For most smaller airplanes you will wear the head
The main benefit of biplanes is that the lift can be distributed across both wings . This provides more lift with less wingspan and places less load on each wing . Less load means the materials can have lower strength . This was very important in the early days of aviation , when engine power , materials , and weight were much more limited . The major downside of a biplane is aerodynamics . The wings interfere with each other , causing drag . While structural bracing between the wings can reduce weight , it also adds more drag . <URL> A biplane configuration does not make much sense for delta wings . The main drawback of a biplane is drag , but drag increases with the square of velocity , and delta wings are best in high-speed flight . <URL> , they have higher viscous drag due to the large surface area . A second delta wing will add more area , increasing both wave drag ( from the cross section ) and viscous drag ( from the surface ) . Configuration of the aircraft also becomes problematic . Most aircraft with delta wings tend to be fairly flat , allowing lower area and therefore lower drag . The closer the wings are , the more they will interfere . The further apart they are , the more structure is needed , either in a larger fuselage or in structural braces , which increases weight and drag .
The pulse jet engine works because it uses the dynamic pressure of air for compression . Consequently , it needs speed to work well . If the pulse jet is on the ground , it is not easy to start - it needs to be fed with compressed air , and once it runs ( it can run even when not moving because the oscillating pressure wave inside the tube will compress the inflowing air ) , it develops litte thrust . Thrust will go up with airspeed , so you need additional thrust sources for initial acceleration and take-off . In case of the V-1 , this was done by a steam catapult or by air-launching the device . Note that the V-1 was accelerated to 370 km/h on a 45 m long catapult which means more than 100 m/s ² ( 10g ) average acceleration . Most of the development work went into making the airframe withstand this acceleration . A modern design would need additional engines as well , and once those are included , the rationale for pulse jets becomes very weak . They make sense if you have an air-launched , disposable application , such as long-range air-to-air missiles . This is a niche in which their higher-speed cousins , the ramjets , <URL> . Pros : Very easy to build , very light . Runs and produces some thrust when at rest ( as opposed to ramjets ) . Cons : Thrust grows with flight speed . This can be seen as a pro , but normally requires additional means of acceleration . Therefore listed as contra here . Low fuel efficiency . The fuel energy is converted to other forms of energy : Just listen to the videos of <URL> to get an idea . High levels of vibration due to the intermittent operation . When the <URL> was tried out with <URL> , the aircraft experienced unacceptable vibration . Need heat-resistant materials . The central part will get very hot in operation , so at least nickel-chrome stainless steel is needed if air cooling is insufficient . Can not go supersonic . For this , there are <URL> . EDIT : NACA tested the As 014 pulse jet and wrote a <URL> , from which the performance data depicted below is taken : It seems that <URL> has improved the pulse jet design a lot : He needs no compressed air for starting and makes clever use of surrounding cold air to increase mass flow and keep material temperatures down .
I will attempt an answer , although the question is a bit unclear . Climb rate is not measured in degrees or any other angle measurement unit . It 's altitude per time unit ( feet per minute usually ) . What you are mentioning is the climb gradient . See <URL> for details Now regarding your questions : Do climb rates for a given flight mission stay constant in one phase of flight ( e.g. until reaching 1500ft altitude ) and then change at a specific flight level or are they continuously adjusted ? Depends on what the pilot wants to achieve . Do they have to meet a restriction ? Noise abatement , crossing etc ? Are they instructed by ATC to climb quicker ( if able ) or slower to maintain separation with an opposite or crossing flight ? In any case they have to adjust their climb rate . Do given climb rates exist for ( one arbitrary ) given flight mission ? Yes and no . Given by whom ? The manufacturer ? The airline company ? The regulations ? If the SID you 've been assigned has climb restrictions imposed , then you have them given but not a firm number . It 's usually less than or more than ( or both ) . Also have in mind that climb rate is affected by aircraft weight as you can see in the document that I 've linked below . But this is more of a limit rather than a given rate for the specific flight . Is there a method to calculate the change of climb rates depending on altitude and weight ? Again , on whose perspective ? The aerospace engineer 's who designs the plane ? Or the pilot 's who will " just " fly it ? In the second case there are lookup tables , but I hardly recall details since it 's been almost 10 years from the last time I 've seen one . Are there sources like papers , reports , manuals that will work for genuine citation ? Your best bet is BADA . You might want to have a look into <URL> * where it actually describes ( among others ) the climb rates for various altitudes and weights for several aircraft types . Note that this is quite an old document dated back to 1998 , but I would guess this is the best one can get since BADA is proprietary and has lots of use restrictions . So I would n't expect anything much newer to be publicly available . * ( labeled since links have the bad habit to disappear )
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
Turboprop engines typically have a core which includes a compressor and turbine that rotate as a unit ( although an engine might have more than one such " spool " ) . The gas generated by the core drives a " power " turbine which , via a gearbox , drives the propeller , which by the way has a non-trivial rotating mass . The core and power sections rotate independently of each other . So , upon a commanded power increase , the core will first spin up , throwing more gas at the power turbine which will then speed up . The delay is therefore due to the rotating mass of the propeller and the fact that it rotates independently of the engine core . For what it 's worth : turboprop engines are just a specific application of a turboshaft engine - where the energy of the gas produced by the core is captured through a power turbine to drive a shaft , which could be used to power anything - propeller , helicopter rotor , electric generator , etc. . I should add that there are exceptions to the above , like the <URL> which have only a single shaft .
The different terms represent different weights or masses1 . For each flight , the weights are taken into account for several reasons . A brief description about these is below : <URL> ( MEW ) Also called Manufacturer 's Weight Empty ( MWE ) or Licensed Empty Weight It is the weight of the aircraft " as built " and includes the weight of the structure , power plant , furnishings , installations , systems and other equipment that are considered an integral part of an aircraft . This excludes any baggage , passengers , or usable fuel2 . <URL> ( ZFW ) This is the total weight of the airplane and all its contents ( including unusable fuel ) , but excluding the total weight of the usable fuel on board . As a flight progresses and fuel is consumed , the total weight of the airplane reduces , but the ZFW remains constant . Maximum zero fuel weight ( MZFW ) is the maximum weight allowed before usable fuel and other specified usable agents ( engine injection fluid , and other consumable propulsion agents ) are loaded . <URL> ( OEW ) ( Roughly equivalent to basic empty weight on light aircraft ) It is the basic weight of an aircraft including the crew , all fluids necessary for operation such as engine oil , engine coolant , water , unusable fuel and all operator items and equipment required for flight but excluding usable fuel and the payload . <URL> It is the carrying capacity of an aircraft . It includes cargo , people , extra fuel . In the case of a commercial airliner , it may refer only to revenue-generating cargo or paying passengers . <URL> ( MTOW ) This is the maximum weight at which the pilot of the aircraft is allowed to attempt to take off3 . <URL> ( RTOW ) Depending on different factors ( e.g. flap setting , altitude , air temperature , length of runway ) , RTOW or maximum permissible takeoff weight varies for each takeoff . It can never be higher than MTOW . More information is on <URL> . <URL> ( MLW ) This maximum weight at which an aircraft is permitted to land3 . The following image depicts takeoff weight components . <URL> <URL> ( MRW ) also called maximum taxi weight ( MTW ) It is the maximum weight authorized for maneuvering ( taxiing or towing ) an aircraft on the ground . <URL> It is the total aircraft weight at any moment during the flight or ground operation . This decreases during flight due to fuel and oil consumption . 1 : As <URL> , several recent references use the term mass instead of weight . Having a Physics background , I tend to agree and know the difference between <URL> . I did not use mass as most of the references I included referred mass as weight . However , using correct terminology , all the weights mean mass . Thanks <URL> for pointing it out . 2 : What is the different between usable fuel and unusable fuel ? Usable fuel is the fuel on board an aircraft that can actually be used by its engines . The small amount of fuel that can not be drained from the tanks is the unusable fuel . For calculation of range , usable fuel is used . For weight and balance total fuel ( usable + unusable ) is used . 3 : This restriction is due to structural , design or operational limitations .
Note : I am focusing on model of height-to-pressure relation in atmosphere , altimeter tries to follow and its limits of the model . There are , of course , limits of each particular instrument too , see answer by @ymb1 . [ EDIT : I have added more details on various uses of altitude and some more details what could be the limit for measuring absolute altitude ( it is not how thin air becomes , in fact ) , hope it answers your question better . ] Uses for altimeter reading Height displayed by common mechanical altimeter should be pressure converted according to the <URL> . This model makes few simplifications ( see the linked document for ex . ) , so it actually never gives exact height , except by chance . But as you are saying , it is anyway quite good approximation . When you are flying , there is few different reasons why you would need to look on altimeter . Obstacle avoidance , landing and maybe calculating final glide in glider . In this case it is really absolute height over terrain you need to know . To get this value you have to start with obtaining QNH , so already now altimeter itself is not enough ( in any altitude ) without external data . For greater precision you have to add more external data . You start with local temperature , but even then precision would be limited . The magnitude of error does not depend on your absolute altitude though , but ( in first approximation ) on height difference between airplane and station/place your QNH comes from . So you are lucky if you want to land . Given QNH comes from that particular airfield , your altimeter should read exact value just on touchdown . If you need to avoid obstacles at similar altitude , error will be likely acceptable for practical use . Again , it is not absolute altitude but relative difference what is causing this error . If you set QNH ( or runway altitude ) on airfield located 4000 ' above sea level and fly down to the see ( let 's say it is possible without traveling far away , so spatial change of air pressure is not an issue here ) , expected error of your altimeter will be similar as if you would fly 4000 feet up . It is because QNH ( pressure at the sea level ) is calculated based on the same model your altimeter is using , so model imperfections cancels out just at the altitude of this reference station . ATC , mid air collisions etc. . Absolute altitude is not important . Instead , you need to be sure that two pilots who see distinct values on their respective altimeters can expect not being at same altitude . For this purpose simplest model with minimum of external parameters works best . As it is of foremost importance that all altimeters involved converts pressure to height in the same way . ( Then , you need to expect pressure does not increase with altitude , but this is quite certain , as there will be always less air mass above you pressing down when you go upwards ) . Absolute altitude is completely unimportant here , or , for flying closer to terrain simple QNH-based offset will do . ( Otherwise STD pressure setting is used . ) Even simple altimeter ( in range of its physical limits of measurable pressure ) would work quite well for this purpose in any practical height . Aircraft performance and aerodynamics . That is service ceiling , choosing optimal cruise etc. . These parameters are usually denoted in altitude in a POH , but only for convenience . It is air density what matters for anything aerodynamic related . And air density is air pressure corrected to temperature . So " altitude " provided by pressure-based altimeter is " just right " for this purpose , you can correct it based on local temperature and you have the best possible value . Again , this will work in any height ( as long as POH and altimeter use same conversion between pressure and height ) . Note that for later two uses value provided by altimeter is actually better than , say , GPS-based height . Absolute altitude OK , what if you really want to know your absolute altitude in stratosphere or even higher . Is it possible to use your altimeter then ? If the altimeter converts pressure to height based on ISA ( true in most cases ) , the displayed value should be given by equation $ $ h = \ left ( 153.85 \ , { \ rm m \ cdot K ^ { -1 } } \ right ) \ cdot T_0 \ cdot \ left ( 1 - \ left ( p \ over p_0 \ right ) ^ { 0.19026 } \ right ) $ $ ( see the reference above ) , where $ T_0 $ is specified to be 288.15 K ( 15 ° C ) and $ p_0 $ is pressure you set in altimeter window . So , if you take such altimeter to space ( $ p = 0 $ ) it wo n't display more than 44 km ( or 145,000 feet ) , given it wo n't reach it 's physical/mechanical limits before . But , of course , the value becomes far from reality much earlier . Probably above the tropopause ( 10 -- 12 km ) , where assumption of constant temperature decrease with height used in this ISA model becomes completely invalid . You could improve the model , but it probably wo n't work too well without more external data . Nevertheless , problem is not that the air is thin . You can , in a way , measure air pressure even at low earth orbit few hundreds kilometer above ground
<URL> , a model aircraft is defined as : any ' Small Unmanned Aircraft ( SUA ) ' ( 0-20 kg ) used for sporting and recreational purposes and a ' large model aircraft ' is defined as any ' Unmanned Aircraft ' ( over 20 kg ) used for sporting and recreational purposes . The following rule applies to all " small unmanned aircraft " , i.e. up to 20kg : ( 3 ) The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft must maintain direct , unaided visual contact with the aircraft sufficient to monitor its flight path in relation to other aircraft , persons , vehicles , vessels and structures for the purpose of avoiding collisions . The following rule applies between 7kg and 20kg only : The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft which has a mass of more than 7 kg excluding its fuel but including any articles or equipment installed in or attached to the aircraft at the commencement of its flight , must not fly the aircraft : ( a ) in Class A , C , D or E airspace unless the permission of the appropriate air traffic control unit has been obtained ; ( b ) within an aerodrome traffic zone during the notified hours of watch of the air traffic control unit ( if any ) at that aerodrome unless the permission of any such air traffic control unit has been obtained ; or ( c ) at a height of more than 400 feet above the surface unless it is flying in airspace described in sub-paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) and in accordance with the requirements for that airspace So in theory , a model aircraft weighing less than 7kg could be flown to any altitude , with the only limitation being the requirement to keep in it sight . From 7kg to 20kg the altitude is 400ft , unless you meet the airspace requirements . In practical terms , the requirement to keep the aircraft in sight " unaided " is the main limitation and that restricts the altitude of smaller models in particular . If it 's over 20kg , the model aircraft is subject to all the regular UK aviation rules but in practice a written exemption is required : Large model aircraft having a mass between 20 kg and 150 kg are subject to all of the Rules or Articles of the Air Navigation Order . As many of these Rules are practically impossible for the model operator to meet , the modeller must request a specific written Exemption to allow the model to be flown The CAA homepage for model aircraft is <URL> .
Even with similar weight , turboprop and turbofan aircraft will have different design characteristics . A turboprop will fly at lower altitudes and airspeeds , resulting in different aerodynamic designs . A turboprop also burns less fuel per hour , so it will need less fuel capacity . That being said , we can look at some aircraft to get an idea of what the trends might be . The best example is probably the Dornier 328 . It 's a turboprop aircraft that seats about 30 passengers . There also happens to be a version of the plane with jet engines . This is probably about as similar as you can get in both weight and aerodynamics . According to Skybrary , the figures are as follows : <URL> MTOW 13990 kg Distance 1000 m <URL> MTOW 15200 kg Distance 1382 m You can see the the jet derivative is a bit heavier but requires a much longer takeoff distance . The trend is similar between other aircraft . <URL> Turboprop MTOW 18600 kg Distance 1085 m <URL> Jet MTOW 20000 kg Distance 1580 m <URL> Jet MTOW 21523 kg Distance 1527 m
Yes , it 's true . Usually called approach or arrival briefing Details will vary according to aircraft and operator but a typical list is NATS : NOTAMs1 ATIS2 notes , chart briefing point by point , date , frequencies , courses , minimums and missed approach procedures . Terrain , minimum safety altitude , which route Special notes for arrival , taxiing , likely gate for arrival ? I noticed that you specifically asked about something going wrong . The following assumes a serviceable aircraft . According to operator , if the aircraft is not on a stabilised approach by 1,000 feet , a go around will be performed and the missed approach procedure ( MAP ) followed . The MAP is printed on the approach chart . The initial action is : to get the aircraft safely climbing away ( aviate ) to the altitude and heading defined in the MAP ( navigate ) then call ATC to let them know ( communicate ) . Aviate , navigate , communicate , always in that order . A stabilised approach might differ between operators but is essentially . The flight path is correct with only minor changes in pitch and heading needed to stay on it . No more than 20 kts above the approach reference speed briefed as above . Correctly configured for landing ( flaps , slats , gear , spoilers armed , autobrake set etc ) Checklists completed Rate of descent < = 1,000 fpm Power setting is appropriate There may be other special checks for some types of approaches which must have been briefed as above ) . The MAP might be something like : The MAP is unique for each approach so must be briefed in advance . 1 <URL> : Warn of recent changes , temporary restrictions , equipment malfunctions etc. . 2 <URL> : A continuous broadcast of airfield information such as weather , special precautions , runways in use etc. .
Firstly , to understand the answer , we need to understand that the Cessna 152 's and 172 's run a 4 Cylinder , Horizontally-opposed Engine . Each Cylinder has 2 spark plugs , one on the top side of the cylinder head , and one on the bottom side . The spark plug ignites the fuel/air mixture that has been sucked into the engine , and causes a controlled burn to push the piston down the cylinder and turn the crankshaft in turn ( hence turning the propeller as it is connected to the end of the crankshaft ) . Now , as I 've stated , each cylinder has two spark plugs , one connected to the " left " magneto , and one connected to the " right " . If we turn one magneto " off " ( or ground it to be politically correct ) , only one spark plug in each cylinder will " fire " to ignite the fuel/air mixture . This causes the mixture to have a delayed and less effective burn , meaning that the piston does not get pushed down the cylinder as effectively , meaning the crankshaft will not rotate as fast , and hence , leads to a drop in the Propeller RPM ( Revolutions per Minute ) . We check the magnetos on the ground to check that ; A . They both work , and the engine wo n't die if we lose a magneto ( we should be able to return to land on the remaining serviceable magneto ) B . We are checking that there is no " Spark Plug Fouling " . The fuel we use in aviation contains lead , and hence after a time of running the engine at low power settings on the ground , the lead in the fuel will accumulate on the spark plug head ( instead of being burnt off when the engine is working under power ) , and cause the spark plug to let off a limited spark , or completely block the spark , hence again , making our engine less efficient . If there is anything you want explained about this answer , please let me know ! :)
To certify any Commercial Jet Plane worthy of flying , a 2 engine plane must be able fly with just 1 engine running a 3 engine jet like the Lockheed L1011 or DC10 with just 1 a 4 engine jet with just 2 . Although not a requirement , the 747 , A380 could fly on one engine but are not be able to maintain the cruise altitude indefinitely and will eventually become long-range gliders so they must land immediately . The landing approach and procedures vary on how much the plane weighs prior to landing . Would the passengers be notified , asking to take the brace position during landing ? Brace Positions are only assumed on impact emergencies , like crash landings . Losing an engine does n't mean you are going to crash so no brace will be assumed . Would such event have an accident investigation report ? There will be an investigation but if the plane landed safely it wont be filed as an accident . The plane plus the engines passed its FAA , EASA , etc Certification so it may be a number of reasons why the engine malfunctioned , like bad maintenance , faulty parts etc. . This is an extract from wikepedia -- <URL> Shut downs that are not engine failures Most in-flight shutdowns are harmless and likely to go unnoticed by passengers . For example , it may be prudent for the flight crew to shut down an engine and perform a precautionary landing in the event of a low oil pressure or high oil temperature warning in the cockpit . However , passengers may become quite alarmed by other engine events such as a compressor surge -- a malfunction that is typified by loud bangs and even flames from the engine 's inlet and tailpipe . A compressor surge is a disruption of the airflow through a gas turbine engine that can be caused by engine deterioration , a crosswind over the engine 's inlet , ingestion of foreign material , or an internal component failure such as a broken blade . While this situation can be alarming , the condition is momentary and not dangerous . Other events such as a fuel control fault can result in excess fuel in the engine 's combustor . This additional fuel can result in flames extending from the engine 's exhaust pipe . As alarming as this would appear , at no time is the engine itself actually on fire . Also , the failure of certain components in the engine may result in a release of oil into bleed air that can cause an odor or oily mist in the cabin . This is known as a fume event . The dangers of fume events are the subject of debate in both aviation and medicine . Would this report later be available for general public , as are the reports of various significant air disasters ? It depends , as you read above the flight deck crew may shut down an engine because of low oil pressure . Would that have significance of becoming public knowledge ? However as an example , if the problem of an engine failure escalates to the manufacturer then the airline may ground the fleet and that then becomes public knowledge and the reason why because the airliner would give media statements . It all depends on the severity of the problem . Like this one that got reported -- <URL> 20 August 2007 ; B-18616 , 737-800 , 30175/1182 , FF 11 Jul 02 , Okinawa , Japan : Engine # 1 caught fire shortly after docking destroying the aircraft . No fatalities . The cause was the detachment of a slat pylon bolt which fell off and pierced the fuel tank which leaked and ignited . According to the JTSB the washer that should have held the nut in place probably detached during maintenance 6 weeks before the incident . The design of the nut has since been changed to limit the likelihood of detachment .
Pressure Altitude As defined by FAA in the <URL> : Pressure altitude is the height above a standard datum plane ( SDP ) , which is a theoretical level where the weight of the atmosphere is 29.92 " Hg ( 1,013.2 mb ) as measured by a barometer . An altimeter is essentially a sensitive barometer calibrated to indicate altitude in the standard atmosphere . If the altimeter is set for 29.92 " Hg SDP , the altitude indicated is the pressure altitude . As atmospheric pressure changes , the SDP may be below , at , or above sea level . Pressure altitude is important as a basis for determining airplane performance , as well as for assigning flight levels to airplanes operating at or above 18,000 feet . The pressure altitude can be determined by either of two methods : 1 . Setting the barometric scale of the altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indicated altitude . 2 . Applying a correction factor to the indicated altitude according to the reported altimeter setting . <URL> From <URL> § 91.217 Data correspondence between automatically reported pressure altitude data and the pilot 's altitude reference . ( a ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder -- ( 1 ) When deactivation of that equipment is directed by ATC ; ( 2 ) Unless , as installed , that equipment was tested and calibrated to transmit altitude data corresponding within 125 feet ( on a 95 percent probability basis ) of the indicated or calibrated datum of the altimeter normally used to maintain flight altitude , with that altimeter referenced to 29.92 inches of mercury for altitudes from sea level to the maximum operating altitude of the aircraft ; or ( 3 ) Unless the altimeters and digitizers in that equipment meet the standards of TSO-C10b and TSO-C88 , respectively . ( b ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder or with ADS-B Out equipment unless the pressure altitude reported for ADS-B Out and Mode C/S is derived from the same source for aircraft equipped with both a transponder and ADS-B Out . ICAO has described how they calculate Pressure Altitude <URL> <URL> When the ISA mean sea level standard pressure of 1013.2 hPa is set on an aircraft altimeter subscale , the height so indicated upon landing at an airfield is known as the QNE reading . More widely , this is also the PRESSURE ALTITUDE , which is alternatively defined as the height of any level in the international standard atmosphere ( ISA-see above ) , above the level corresponding to a pressure of 1013.2 hPa . <URL> to calculate standard atmospheric conditions ( ISA ) at a given geometric or pressure altitude and ambient temperature .
end question
start question
Why is jet fuel cheaper than piston fuel ?
There are a number of factors that go into it : <URL> Jet-A is used in a much higher volume than 100LL . All the jet engine commercial aircraft each day burn through orders of magnitude more Jet-A than piston aircraft burn through 100LL . That means that there is a much higher production volume , and therefore a cost savings as a result . Buying in volume It is pretty rare for a jet to taxi up and take on 50 gallons of Jet-A . Even the smaller jets rarely take on less than a couple hundred gallons . If you went up to your local FBO and said that you wanted 500 gallons of 100LL , they would find a way to get a discount for you . 100LL is special Leaded fuels are not manufactured anymore for any other purpose than 100LL . There is a push in the aviation industry to <URL> altogether , but this is n't happening for a while . As a result , it takes a special process to add lead to the fuel , equipment not used for any other purpose . Jet-A on the other hand is n't incredibly different from diesel # 1 or kerosene , at least in the way it is processed . Negotiated contracts Because airlines buy so much fuel , they have negotiated contracts directly with fuel suppliers . These contracts help bring the price down because of competition , and the supplier is running a steady supply of fuel for the airline . I 'm not sure why you would think that 100LL would be cheaper , it 's sold in low volume , it is expensive to make , and it is environmentally unfriendly and toxic .
Pilot here ( with Cessna 152 hours ) as well as an engineer who made it most of the way to an Airframe and Powerplant technician license at one point in life . There are several reasons that conspire to produce ' unusable fuel ' : Fuel tanks on airplanes have complex shapes - they include baffles and other walls ( with holes in them ) to prevent oscillations from building up during in-flight movement . Sometimes these baffles are even engineered into the tanks late in the design cycle as testing finds oscillation issues . These baffles result in ' geometric trapping ' of fuel in nooks and crannies . Drawing fuel from a fuel tank is more complicated in a plane - cars are pretty much flat with minor tilts while airframes can have all sorts of odd and sustained directions that the fuel wants to go due to acceleration . Imagine an extended tilted spiral while descending - that fuel experiences far more lateral acceleration over a longer time period that a car would have . Getting the fuel system to pull fuel out from these different angles is challenging ( note that I 've picked a non-aerobatic maneuver for which the Cessna 152 of your question is qualified here ) . All of this is a cost/complexity tradeoff - solutions exist for 1 and 2 above - fighter jets use fuel bladders that have pressure bladders arranged to squeeze the fuel out so that they can get almost all the fuel even at high G-forces and unusual angles . Aerobatic planes have similarly more expensive and complicated systems than the old and cheap Cessna 152 . There are other considerations as well , but mostly it comes down to whether the plane in question can justify the cost and effort to get every last drop of fuel . Things get even more complicated in rockets - the moon rockets ( properly the Saturn 5 although it was an upper stage specifically ) had special extra engines called ullage motors whose only job was to give the stage a little boost in space to push the fuel towards the rear of the rocket so that the main motors could draw fuel and start . Addendum edit : @supercat below - the definition of unusable fuel is set by federal aviation regulation part 23 , section 959 ( <URL> ) and basically is the worst case under " intended operation " for the particular plane . Since the Cessna 152 is not aerobatically rated , for example , the unused fuel is defined as the fuel level where SOME intended maneuver would be capable of causing a fuel system error . In practice , especially in flat level flight , some of that unusable fuel would be available for use although you are not supposed to plan to use it in your flight planning .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
Much like water , exposing fuel to below freezing temperatures does not instantly make it freeze . It takes some amount of time , and as long as the fuel is not exposed to below freezing temperatures long enough to make it freeze , it wo n't be a problem . How much time ? That depends on a number of factors like : Type of fuel Jet A ( common in the US ) has a freezing point of -40 C Jet A1 ( common outside the US ) has a freezing point of -47 C Jet B ( common for some military aircraft and very cold airports ) has a freezing point of -60 C Initial fuel temperature If you fuel in the middle east during the middle of summer , the fuel will be a lot warmer than when you fuel in Siberia in the middle of winter . Warmer fuel will take longer to freeze . Outside air temperature Much like trying to freeze water to form an ice cube , the colder the air around it , the faster that it will freeze . Aircraft speed The faster that the airplane goes , the more friction there is as the air flows over the wing . This heats up the air close to the wing and makes it take longer for the fuel to freeze ( see previous point ) . The temperature at the wing is known as TAT : For example , at an actual temperature of -56.5 C ( SAT ) and Mach 0.72 the TAT is -34 C , but at Mach 0.80 the TAT is -29 C. For more information about SAT - vs - TAT , see my answer about <URL> . Quantity of fuel Much like a small pond will freeze before a large lake , in order to get fuel to freeze you need to lower the temperature of all of it . The more that there is , the longer it will take . Aircraft design Some aircraft run hydraulic lines close to the fuel so that the heat will help slow down the freezing . Some aircraft constantly pump fuel to keep it moving and mixing if it tends to freeze in one part of the tank before the rest Some aircraft use fuel to cool the engine oil using a heat exchanger , and return the warmed fuel to the tanks Many other design factors In general , fuel will not freeze in the typical amount of time that an aircraft is aloft . If particular routes pose a problem , there are several options that the operator and pilot have : Use a fuel with a lower freezing point Fly at a lower altitude where it is not as cold Choose a route with warmer temperatures Increase the speed of the airplane Carry extra fuel Transfer fuel in a way to keep fuel warmer . Typically this is done by transferring fuel from the relatively warm fuselage tanks to the wing tanks which are exposed to more of the cold air .
This is sort of explained in the <URL> already . Specifically <URL> ( which I consider better than the accepted one above it ) says : Today , high power propeller aircraft tend to use identical engines but left - and right-handed gearboxes so the propellers run in both directions . This is less due to gyro effects and mostly to produce benign stall characteristics . The prop wash of a propeller increases the local angle of attack on the wing on one side and decreases it on the other side , so the wing will stall first on the side with bigger angle of attack . If this side is always to the right of the propellers , the aircraft will roll right in a stall . In a turbofan the nozzle directs the flow below the wing aft of the leading edge , focuses it more and uses guide vanes to stop its rotation , so this effect does not occur . This eliminates the most important factor for deciding to use counter-rotating propellers . Combine with the fact that most turbofans are not geared , so the whole engine would have to be mirrored , which would complicate maintenance a lot more than just having mirrored gearboxes and propellers does for turboprops .
According to <URL> ( via <URL> ) , it takes 53 minutes to load 55,800 US gallons with two fuel trucks operating at 35 psi delivery pressure . The total fuel capacity of the 787-8 is 33,340 US gal , so fueling from empty to full should take about 31.6 minutes with two trucks .
Detonation , as the name suggests , is an explosion of the fuel-air mixture inside the cylinder . Under normal operation , the spark plugs each ignite a point in the fuel/air charge , which then propagate through the cylinder and provides a consistent , regulated burn in a process called <URL> . This extends the time that the burning fuel pushes on the cylinder , providing a gentle power stroke . During detonation , the fuel/air charge ( or pockets within the charge ) explodes rather than burning smoothly . Because of this explosion , the charge exerts a much higher force on the piston and cylinder , leading to increased noise , vibration , and cylinder head temperatures . The violence of detonation also causes a reduction in power . Mild detonation may increase engine wear , though some engines can operate with mild detonation regularly . However , severe detonation can cause engine failure in minutes . Because of the noise that it makes , detonation is called " engine knock " or " pinging " in cars . ( Source : <URL> , page 6-18 ) Detonation can be caused by a number of factors , but generally they relate to a situation outside of the engine 's design . Using the wrong fuel can cause detonation : the octane rating of a fuel is basically the amount of pressure it can take before it detonates . Similarly , high cylinder temperatures can cause detonation ( 1 ) . This is why mixture is set very rich when at high power levels : the excess fuel cools the cylinders , preventing detonation . As noted above , full power with carburetor heat on can cause detonation , as the increased temperature mimics the effect of high cylinder temperatures . Full carburetor heat is required to provide at least a 90 degree F increase in intake air temperature . Further reading : Page 6-19 of the <URL> . An <URL> at Savvy Analysis 1 ) Detonation is distinct from pre-ignition , where the fuel/air charge is ignited by something other than the spark plug . Notably , detonation and pre-ignition often cause each other , as a detonating engine will have a very high CHT ( potentially enough to cause pre-ignition ) , and if the charge pre-ignites as the cylinder is still rising , the continued compression may cause the charge to detonate .
You can not " switch off " a stage of a turbine engine . As seen <URL> jet engines are a single block mechanically locked together : all the stages ( compressor AND turbine ) connected to the same shaft . If the shaft turns , all connected stages turn with it . You can have designs with multiple shafts , but this increases the complexity ( design and maintenance ) heavily . Even if we assume for a moment that you could have 1 shaft per stage , stopping one of these would be generally a bad idea . For acoustic reasons the number of blades on the stationary part of the stage and those on the rotary part must be prime to each other ( example : 37 blades on the stationary side and 39 on the rotary one ) ; this means that when the rotary part stops you can not align all the blades with the stationary ones , creating drag and losses within the engine , thus reducing the efficiency . How would efficiency of a Jet Engine change , if we assume for a second that its a possibility , to stop a few stages ( turn them into free instead of locked ) ? You would still decrease the efficiency : compressor stages are the ones actually <URL> ( you would then produce less thrust * ) and the turbine stages are the ones extracting energy from the exahust . * : you could even risk having the flame going upstream if you stop too many compressor stages and not having enough pressure at the combustion chamber inlet .
I find it hard to make a general answer since the fuel systems could be different between various aircraft , but , according to Jan Roskam 's Aircraft Design series ( I just had to return the book , but I think it 's Part IV in the series ) some model of the F/A -18 utilizes the following system which , in sustained inverted flight ( or any sustained flight condition wherein the aircraft does not experience a positive load factor ) , would eventually starve the engine of fuel . Keep in mind too that fuel is n't the only factor for sustaining this flight condition : oil flow through the engine is typically gravity fed ( reference for that is an engineer from Bell Helicopter who worked on the V-22 powerplant ) . Suction is used to scavenge the oil out of the engine/gearboxes/etc , but the flow of the oil up to a point where suction will pull it out is via gravity ( or whatever acceleration the aircraft is experiencing ) . Hence , not only do we need to provide fuel , but we also need to provide for proper oil flow as well . Anyhow , the F/A -18 fuel system . Again , I wish I had the image from the text to show you , but the basic idea is this : if you had a flop tube capable of scavenging from the entire fuel tank , it would engender more problems than it solved . Hence , inside of the primary fuel tank there 's a second , smaller tank . This tank has a series of poppet valves that allow fuel to flow into the inset tank during coordinated ( i.e. , positive load factor ) flight . When the aircraft is not experiencing a positive load factor , the pressure of the fuel on these valves holds them closed and the fuel stays within the inset tank . A short flop tube within this space provides fuel to the engines for the duration of the maneuver . However , as noted , this inset tank is only a portion of the larger main tank , so its capacity would be some fraction of the main tank , limiting the duration of the maneuver . So , to answer your question ( how does fuel starvation happen and why is n't it solved via a pump ) it 's a design problem that , per the printing of that text , could not be solved by adding capacity to the pump . There just simply was n't fuel present at the fuel sump to be scavenged . The real design problem would lie in the design of flop tubes capable of scavenging from the entire tank without creating more design problems ( an assumed point on my part ) . Examples , I think , would crop up if you decided to make a multiplicity of flop tubes ( larger pumps required , more parts , more complex plumbing , etc. ) , or longer flop tubes ( potential risk for damage to the tube head/tank with increased " flopping " inertia , larger pump required for greater head losses , etc. ) ... but I also do n't know what the current standard is .
There is a very good reason not to run this test : If it is not done perfectly your engine can become starved of fuel during takeoff . For simplicity let 's assume your fuel selector only has two positions ( Left and Right ) and think about what 's involved in the test and a few things that can go wrong : What are we testing ? One of the points of an engine Runup is to verify that the fuel system can deliver a fuel flow sufficient to allow the engine to develop takeoff power . There are other things we 're verifying but let 's stick with that item for this discussion . How can we verify this ? We verify that the fuel system has adequate flow by running the engine up to something resembling takeoff power ( most runup checklists do n't have you go to full throttle , but you advance the throttle enough that the engine is demanding a significant fuel flow compared to idling and taxiing around ) . To verify that your fuel system is allowing sufficient fuel flow from each tank you would have to switch tanks during the engine run-up ( with the engine at runup power ) and wait long enough to exhaust any fuel that might be in the system between the fuel selector and the engine . If the fuel selector handle comes off in your hand or the engine quits you found the problem on the ground , so you can get a tow back to the ramp and get the fuel system fixed . What can go wrong ? The test above sounds innocent enough , but it 's deceptively dangerous . Here are two possible failure modes that may make you rethink it : The second tank does n't have adequate fuel flow . This could be a complete obstruction of the tank pickup or just a restriction in one of the lines , but for some reason the second tank will not supply a fuel flow sufficient for takeoff and climb out at full power . You may miss this if you do n't wait long enough at runup power after switching tanks to drain the fuel from the system forward of the fuel selector , and now your engine suddenly got quiet as you 're rolling down the runway - or worse it quits 100 feet off the ground and now you 're having a Really Bad Day ! You missed the fuel selector detent . Easy enough to do , especially if fuel selector maintenance has been lacking and the positions are not really distinct ( when is the last time you * really , critically , felt the clicks on your plane ? ) . It could happen in the initial switch , or when switching back to the first tank if that 's your procedure . A fuel selector not in a specific tank position may still allow enough fuel flow to complete a runup when combined with the fuel left forward of the fuel selector , but it may be too restricted to allow a takeoff . The fuel selector may also vibrate into an OFF position during takeoff . In this scenario maybe your engine stops at 200-300 feet , but you 're still having a Really Bad Day . In both of these scenarios the engine is still running because there is fuel in the system between the fuel selector and the engine ( the two big reservoirs are the fuel strainer / gascolator &amp; the carburetor float bowl , but there are also fuel lines that will need to drain before the engine dies ) . To get an idea how long these reserves last try setting your engine to Runup power and turning off the fuel selector . You may be surprised how long the engine will run before the fuel after the selector is exhausted . Also remember the time will vary based on power setting , mixture setting , and even aircraft attitude sitting on the ground allowing more or less fuel to get to the carburetor from the lines ( a nose-high attitude during takeoff may starve your engine more quickly than sitting level on the runup pad ) . How can we safely conduct this test ? Making sure your fuel tanks all work is kind of important , especially if you are going to be making a flight near the endurance limit of your fuel . There is no 100 % safe way to conduct this test , but the way I was taught seems to have the fewest possible failure modes : Start , taxi , Runup , and takeoff should be conducted on one tank . Typically this is " the fullest tank " , but if they 're all equally full then either the one the fuel system return flows to if your airplane has such a thing , or just pick one . By using the one tank for all your ground operations and your Runup you are pretty much guaranteeing that it flows sufficient fuel to allow a takeoff , and that at least this position on the fuel selector works . After takeoff switch tanks after reaching a safe altitude . Do this with enough fuel left in the tank you took off on to turn around and get back to where you started in case you discover the tank you switched to does n't work , and as with any tank switch be prepared for the fuel selector handle to come off in your hand : Know where you 'll put the plane if that happens ! If your engine stops a few minutes after you switch tanks ... ... you now have a good reason to suspect that the tank you switched to does n't work . Per the first rule of troubleshooting , undo the last change you made ( switch back to the worki
The 737-900ER has ( two ) axillary fuel tanks in the aft cargo compartment , behind the wing ( and center of gravity ) with ~ 3400l capacity for increasing range ( from 2800nm to 3,200 nm ) . In usual conditions , unloading of passengers would n't be a problem as the fuel would 've been used up ; However , as this was an overweight landing with full fuel tanks ( the auxiliary fuel tanks weigh ~ 3t ) , the crew are just being cautious to prevent any incidents .
If fuel contamination is suspected ( because of engine control system fault indications , slow engine responses or rapid engine pressure ratio ( EPR ) fluctuations ) , there is an associated checklist procedure to followed which can confirm the contamination : Fuel contamination checklist as posted by " 330 skipper " at Nov 24th 2017 13:47 Z <URL> : If ENG 1 ( 2 ) CTL SYS FAULT alert triggered associated with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE , and with rapid and continuous EPR fluctuation indications on both engines : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... OFF If EPR fluctuations stop on both engines : ECAM PROC ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... APPLY A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... KEEP OFF If EPR fluctuations continue on both engines : FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If ENG 1 CTL SYS FAULT and ENG 2 CTL SYS FAULT alerts triggered with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . OFF FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If fuel contamination confirmed : LAND ASAP <URL> In addition , the Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) has the following procedure to be followed if fuel contamination is confirmed : <URL> Special thanks to <URL> for providing the images of the procedure and the FCOM
The engine does n't care how heavy the airplane is ( or how well it is flying ) , but you might . As long as you are cruising around at a particular altitude and power setting , then the engine is going to consume fuel at the same rate . A heavier airplane will require increased lift , which will induce greater drag , and will have a lower forward airspeed as a result of that same power ( assuming it is not so heavy that it prevents you from maintaining altitude ) . If on the other hand you have a particular airspeed you want to maintain , then the power needed for that speed will depend on weight . Lower weight , less power necessary , less fuel flow required to supply the power .
In a typical trainer aircraft ( in this case , a C172 ) , you have an annunciator panel that includes a " Low Fuel " light : <URL> These lights only come on when fuel is low if the lights are functioning properly . This panel is located prominently , and is easy to notice . This is only one aircraft , but when you consider it is an entry level aircraft that is less sophisticated , it gives a baseline idea of what you could expect to see . Also , there are fuel gauges displayed with all engine instruments that will indicate accordingly . While this is n't a leak detector , pilots are trained to monitor all instruments regularly and cross check the values - which is how a leak is identified in aircraft with low amounts of technology . It is worth noting that checking the " LOW FUEL " annunciator is off is a regular checklist item that occurs before you start your actual flight . As GdD mentions in the comments - you are taught not to rely on any one instrument indication , and panel lights are no exception .
It is possible to overfill a wing . You fuel the aircraft when its wing is cold . Later as the aircraft sits on the ramp the outside temp increases causing the full to expand in an already full wing . So they have the overflow system dumps the excess fuel on the ramp . Its usually not a lot of fuel just a few gallons . It also prevents the fueler from over fueling the wind . It can sometime dump 50 gallons or more if the fueler it not paying attention .
First off , there are some light aircraft powered by diesel like the <URL> and the <URL> . It should be noted both come in a 100LL powered version as well . As it stands now the <URL> but has not yet decided/found one . There are also <URL> . But anyway , more to the point , you cant simply put diesel into a regular engine as the ignition system and compression requirements are different . Thus to convert a plane to diesel you need a different engine all together . With that in mind most certifying bodies dont just let you swap airplane engines to any engine you see fit . The engine would need to be certified for the air frame which is a costly proposition . Thus it is sensible and economical to keep the current engines running . There are some efforts like those made by piper and diamond to slowly make diesel aircraft available . As to why 100LL is used , this stems mostly from history . The vast majority of the general aviation fleet both physically and simply in design , stems from the dawn of the jet age . When the lines for the <URL> there was plenty of 100LL to go around , it was for lack of a better term , the logical choice .
Fuel systems are in general fed by gravity , at least until the fuel leaves the tank , where sometimes ( always if the tank is lower than the engine ) a pump pushes it toward the engine . This means that fuel is generally extracted from the bottom of the tank ( or slightly above the very bottom to avoid having small particles from the bottom of the tank clogging up the fuel filter , incidentally this also introduces the concept of , as the stuff remaining at the bottom of the tank , although there are a lot more factors to this ) . Fuel is less dense than water , meaning it 'll float on top of the water . Or if you want to think of it the other way around , water is heavier and will sink to the bottom , right where you 're trying to get your fuel to feed to the engine . Water does n't burn very well and the engine will stop . Avgas is generally 0.72 kg/l and Jetfuel around 0.82 kg/l ( water being 1 kg/l , see have <URL> units work well that way ? ) . A tiny amount of water probably mix with the fuel and simply reduce the power output slightly , whereas anything more will be drained from the tank first , and it 'll be very hard to restart the engine . You 'd have to pump all the water through the cylinder and out the exhaust , and I do n't think this is generally possible in flight , especially right after takeoff which is generally the case when you have water in the fuel ( could be right after switching tanks too though ) . I do n't know much about turbine engines , but I suspect they 're less susceptible as the water will not prevent relighting the engine ( the pumps will simply push the water out , there 's no cylinder that could fill up with water ) , and you 'll generally be using up more fuel on the ground making the problem readily apparent . This is pure speculation though .
Ratchet freak gives already most of the reasons . I might add that on a grass field the taildragger is easier to handle . The relatively high drag and long lever arm of the tailwheel or skid will help to pull the aircraft straight at low speeds when rudder control power is low . On a hard surface , however , the tricycle gear is easier to handle . Also , not only the weight , but also the drag of two wheels is less than that of three . If you look at modern airplane designs , those where weight must be kept low ( like aerobatic planes ) still have a taildragger gear . It is also used in gliders and motor gliders , because they will operate mostly from grass strips and do not want to include internal space to accommodate three retractable wheels . Big taildragger designs from the early days vanished with the emergence of concrete runways from the 1930s on and the need to brake more during rollout when wing loadings and landing speeds went up . On concrete runways , the tricycle gear handles better and <URL> . Without the ability to brake hard , the rollout lengths of taildraggers would prohibit todays wing loadings . With retractable gears the drag disadvantage is no more , and the increased weight can be tolerated .
Engine separation wo n't cause automatic closure of valves , but the resulting low pressure will illuminate lights ( including the Master Caution light ) on the panels and display messages on the displays . The pilots will have to react to the engine separation , the same way than for an engine fire or severe malfunction . This non normal procedure includes shutting down the fuel line by setting the engine start lever to CUTOFF or triggering the fire bottles on the affected engine . There is a spar fuel valve ( or fuel shutoff valve ) fixed to the wing and to the fuel tank , which stays on the wing in case of separation . This valve is to prevent leaks due to a broken line . As the hydraulic power may be missing after the engine damage or separation , the valve is controlled by an electric motor with a backup battery and a double wiring redundancy . Example on the the B737 NG : <URL> ( Shut-off valves framed in purple , <URL> ) Non-Normal checklist used : ( NNC 8.2 of the Quick Reference Handbook ) . <URL> ( Click to enlarge , <URL> )
There are a number of factors that go into it : <URL> Jet-A is used in a much higher volume than 100LL . All the jet engine commercial aircraft each day burn through orders of magnitude more Jet-A than piston aircraft burn through 100LL . That means that there is a much higher production volume , and therefore a cost savings as a result . Buying in volume It is pretty rare for a jet to taxi up and take on 50 gallons of Jet-A . Even the smaller jets rarely take on less than a couple hundred gallons . If you went up to your local FBO and said that you wanted 500 gallons of 100LL , they would find a way to get a discount for you . 100LL is special Leaded fuels are not manufactured anymore for any other purpose than 100LL . There is a push in the aviation industry to <URL> altogether , but this is n't happening for a while . As a result , it takes a special process to add lead to the fuel , equipment not used for any other purpose . Jet-A on the other hand is n't incredibly different from diesel # 1 or kerosene , at least in the way it is processed . Negotiated contracts Because airlines buy so much fuel , they have negotiated contracts directly with fuel suppliers . These contracts help bring the price down because of competition , and the supplier is running a steady supply of fuel for the airline . I 'm not sure why you would think that 100LL would be cheaper , it 's sold in low volume , it is expensive to make , and it is environmentally unfriendly and toxic .
end question
start question
What is the difference between regulatory and nonregulatory airspace ?
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
An adiabatic expansion lowers temperature , an adiabatic compression raises temperature , analogous to the way a refrigerator and an air conditioner work . Or a bicycle pump , it gets quite hot while you 're pumping air . A shock wave compresses air - at supersonic speeds the object travels faster than the pressure information , and when the object arrives at a bit of air it compresses suddenly in a shock wave , with corresponding higher temperature .
Yes there is a distinction , pitch , roll and heading are angles [ unit = radian ] and latitude , longitude and altitude are linear distances [ unit = meter ] . Together , these six parameters define the six Degrees of Freedom that define the momentary state of a rigid object with reference to the earth . All six are defined relative to earth axes . For the linear dimensions this is clear , we just need to define a suitable zero point . For the angles : Pitch is the nose up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Roll is the wingtip up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Heading is the angle relative to a suitable earth reference , usually magnetic north or geographical north . Conversion of aircraft axes into earth axes is a non-trivial matter and the cause of much confusion , for instance in questions comparing lift to weight : lift is always coupled to aircraft axes , weight to earth axes . The axes sets are defined as follows : Aircraft axes Origin : Centre of Gravity of aircraft X-axis : in the symmetry plane of the aircraft , + = forward to the aircraft nose Y-axis : in the span wise direction of the aircraft , + = to the right wingtip Z-axis : perpendicular to the XOY-plane , + = down into the floor . Earth axes Origin : Centre of Gravity at the start of the response X-axis : In the horizontal plane ( relative to gravity ) , + = pointing north . Y-axis : Perpendicular to XOZ-plane , + = pointing east . Z-axis : Pointing to the centre of the earth = + Edit Yes navigation lat/lon is given in [ degrees ] - the INS sensor ultimately converts displacement into proper navigational definitions of course . But for measuring 3-D aircraft inertial effects the SI system is used , and displacement is internally treated as a linear motion , units [ metres ] .
According to the <URL> , this definition is in <URL> : ( d ) Commercial aircraft . A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration , including money or services rendered . [ ... ] ( h ) Private aircraft . A " private aircraft " is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not : ( 1 ) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ; ( 2 ) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes ; or ( 3 ) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ;
ASOS is basically a replacement for AWOS with more reporting parameters , and the first units were installed in 1991 . According to the <URL> , each different type has the following parameters : AWOS AWOS A : barometric pressure and altimeter setting ( in inches of Mercury ) . AWOS I : wind speed and wind gusts ( in knots ) , wind direction ( from which the wind is blowing ) and variable wind direction ( in degrees of the compass ) , temperature and dew point ( in degrees Celsius ) , altimeter setting and density altitude . AWOS II : all AWOS I parameters , plus visibility and variable visibility ( in miles ) . AWOS III : all AWOS II parameters , plus sky condition ( in oktas ) , cloud ceiling height ( in feet ) , and liquid precipitation accumulation ( in inches ) . AWOS III P : all AWOS III parameters , plus precipitation type ( rain , snow and sometimes drizzle ) identification . AWOS III T : all AWOS III parameters , plus thunderstorm detection ( via a cloud-to-ground lightning detector ) . AWOS III P/T : all AWOS III parameters , plus precipitation type identification and thunderstorm detection . AWOS IV Z : all AWOS III P/T parameters , plus freezing rain detection via a freezing rain sensor ( Note : this configuration used to be called AWOS III PTZ ) . AWOS IV R : all AWOS III P/T parameters , plus runway surface condition . AWOS IV Z/R : all AWOS III P/T parameters , plus freezing rain detection and runway surface condition . ASOS They generally report all the parameters of the AWOS-III , while also having the additional capabilities of reporting temperature and dew point in degrees Fahrenheit , present weather , icing , lightning , sea level pressure and precipitation accumulation .
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
Flight levels use <URL> or pressure altitude , while altitude references <URL> or local pressure adjusted to sea level pressure . Altitudes are used at low levels and flight levels at higher levels . The transition between altitudes and flight levels differs by country and is generally just above the highest obstacle in that country . In the US the transition altitude/level is 18,000 ' / FL180 . Some countries transition as low as 5000 ' / FL050 and the transition altitude/level may vary from airport to airport . In the altitudes knowing accurate elevations relative to the ground and obstacles is important for collision avoidance and this is the reason QNH is used here . Each airport will report QNH and controllers will issue the current QNH as needed . You need to know the QNH for obstacle / terrain avoidance but you need to be using the same QNH as those around you for aircraft vertical separation . Above all terrain/obstacles the only thing we care about is vertical separation , so we no longer need to know about the actual pressure and instead use a standard reference pressure , QNE / 1013.25 hPa / 29.92 " Hg . Note that flight levels drop the last two zeros of the corresponding altitude and so 30,000 is FL300 , not FL30000 . When checking in with a controller , FL300 would be pronounced . It is also worth noting that an altimeter can not actually determine altitude . It can only determine pressure ( technically local static pressure compared to a reference pressure ) . It converts this pressure to an altitude using a calibrated non-linear scale . To illustrate the point , look at this map of 500 mb heights : 500 mb correlates to 5500 m or 18,000 ft in a standard atmosphere . In a real atmosphere this height varies and is not actually level . An airplane flying " level " at FL180 from LAX to NYC last night will have actually descended almost 300 m while indicating a constant altitude . These deviations in true altitude from indicated altitude are acceptable , however , since they effect everyone equally in the same locality and separation is maintained .
For GA aircraft with straight , rectangular wings , the stall usually starts at the root and progresses towards the tip . So , at some point , only a portion of the wing will be stalled . This is sometimes referred to as partial stall , though it is not a common term . <URL> Image from boldmethod.com This is usually achieved by having a washout or a wing cuff . In case of root-first stall , the wing tips are still producing lift , helping to prevent rolling motion ( which may occur if the whole wings stalls at once ) , which in turn prevents the aircraft from entering a spin .
The term is not " approved " , it is the complete phrase . This is the standard FAA term for what was previously called either or , and means " separation in accordance with the applicable minima in [ <URL> ] " . The separation minima are further defined in the JO 7110 family of FAA Air Traffic Control orders , which you can find linked from the page above .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
RFL is Requested Flight Level , ECL is the En-Route Cruise Level . RFL the cruising flight level that has been requested by the flight plan or by the pilots , ECL is the level which has been actually assigned by the controller . The two may be the same or they may be different . From the <URL> , page 33 2.3.2 Enroute Cruising Level ( ECL ) ( 3.3.2 ) Domain Knowledge : The ECL is a notional level that , in the absence of constraints , equates to the RFL . In the case where a flight is not permitted to cruise at its RFL for any or a part of its route , due to the presence of a strategic constraint ( level limit ) which applies to flights between the aerodromes of departure and destination , the ECL will be limited to the level defined by the constraint . The ECL may also be changed by instruction from ATC where the flight is to maintain a different cruising level , typically due to the proximity of a flight at the RFL on the same route . As with the RFL , the ECL can be changed for different segments of the route and , if different in the cruise phase , is changed to the XFL on passing the sector boundary . The notion of ECL ceases to exist after the final TOD from cruising level . This is a complicated way of saying the requested flight level is usually assigned unless there 's a good reason for the controller not to ( to avoid potential conflicts for example ) , and the pilots can request a different flight level en route .
Although Lnafziger 's answer is correct , I 'd like to elaborate on the purpose of the airspace classes . Class A : This airspace is intended for high-speed , point to point travel . That is why pilots flying in Class A must be instrument rated and in contact with air traffic control ( ATC ) ; aircraft above 18,000 feet are likely to travel quickly and may not have time to avoid each other visually . This is the upper layer of the airspace system . * Class B : This airspace is intended for large airports with lots of jet traffic . The large number and size of aircraft require space for ATC to get them efficiently in and out of the airports . Approach control services are provided . As a result , class B areas are physically large . It is possible for small aircraft flying under visual flight rules to operate here with explict ATC permission , though permission to enter may be denied during periods of high traffic . Small piston-powered aircraft land at Class B airports infrequently , typically due to high landing fees and fuel prices . Class C : Smaller airports with a mix of piston-powered aircraft and jets . Most Class C airports are home to flight schools and small aircraft hangars as well as scheduled service by airlines . While still busy , Class C airports have less traffic than Class B , so ATC does n't need as much space to keep them organized . Like Class B , approach control services are provided . Pilots are only required to establish two-way communication to enter the airspace . Class D : The smallest airspace type for tower-controlled airports , traffic primarily consists of general aviation aircraft . Often these airports handle cargo , business jets , charter service , maintenance or assembly facilities , etc. as well as private aircraft and flight schools . They also host firefighting operations , airshows , or anything else that needs facilities but would interfere with normal traffic if put at a larger airport . Although Class D airports are small , some are very busy ; others handle only a few flights an hour . Approach control services are only provided if the airport is near Class B or C airspace . Class E : This is the lowest level of " controlled airspace . " " Controlled " does n't mean you have to talk to ATC , but that ATC services are available ( within the capabilities of radar and radio equipment ) . This is general-purpose airspace . Aircraft flying under visual flight rules can fly more-or-less whatever they want ( weather permitting ) , and instrument flight rules traffic operate under positive control by ATC . There are regulations in this airspace , but they are n't onerous , and they 're designed to accommodate the wide variety of aircraft and activities that are found here . Some small airports have Class E airspace surrounding them at the ground . Although Class E is a single class of airspace , there are tighter regulations above 10,000 feet , where there are no speed restrictions ( other than the prohibition on supersonic flight over land ) , compared to at lower altitudes where speeds are limited to 250 knots . Class F : See <URL> Class G : This is found near the ground everywhere except controlled airspace around airports , and occasionally at higher altitudes in remote areas ( Alaska or the Rockies , usually ) , but never above 14,500 feet . Most untowered airports have Class G airspace surrounding them . This is " uncontrolled " airspace , so there is no ATC service available at all . Radio and radar work better the higher you go , so at low altitudes you just ca n't expect good results . Class G serves as a notice that ATC services are unavailable , typically due to a lack of radar coverage . In remote areas , the same problems occur at higher altitudes ( radar wo n't see you if you go behind a mountain , and sometimes you 're just too far ) so Class G is found there as well . Most of the time , the only reason anybody goes into Class G airspace is because they 're taking off or landing at an uncontrolled airport , or transiting certain areas that lack radar coverage . Other : There are many kinds of special-use airspace , all of which serve as keep-out signs of varying levels from " please be considerate " up to " will shoot on sight . " In the US , these do n't really interact with airspace classification . * Technically , airspace above 60,000 feet is Class E , but nobody goes up there except scientific and spy/military flights .
At the absolute simplest , compared to a two-bladed propeller , a slightly smaller three-bladed propeller can produce more thrust at a given RPM , improving climb performance . Because of the smaller diameter , the propeller tips actually travel slower than the equivalent two-bladed design , reducing noise inside and outside the airplane . Hartzell Propeller has a great <URL> . Their explanation of why more blades produces less noise is pretty good : A 2-blade propeller produces two pressure pulses per revolution , where a 3-blade propeller will produce three smaller pulses per revolution ( for the same amount of total thrust ) which is inherently smoother and therefore quieter . The 3-blade propeller will generally have a smaller diameter than the 2-blade propeller that it replaces , which also reduces the tip speed and noise .
What 's the difference between racetrack and holding pattern ? Are they only synonymous ? You are using pattern and not procedure , so yes they are quite synonymous . The actual difference is between holding procedure and racetrack procedure . Holding and racetrack patterns They are related , but not exact synonymous . Some terminology : Holding ( or flying a hold ) is a maneuver designed to delay an aircraft already in flight . A holding pattern is the pattern used to hold , regardless of the design of the pattern . A racetrack pattern is a specific design of holding pattern . From <URL> : A holding pattern for instrument flight rules ( IFR ) aircraft is usually a racetrack pattern based on a holding fix . Holding patterns are usually timed because aircraft have to remain within a given and limited protected space when flying the holding procedure . That was for the patterns , let 's look at the procedures where the differences are . Holding procedure ICAO definition from <URL> ( PANS-OPS ) : A predetermined maneuver which keeps an aircraft within a specified airspace while awaiting further clearance . It can be used to delay the aircraft , but also to change its altitude using a holding pattern and stack . <URL> <URL> . In holding , the holding pattern is usually a racetrack pattern , and racetrack and holding may be used interchangeably while talking about patterns . See this question specific to holding : <URL> Racetrack procedure ICAO makes a specific use of the phrase " racetrack procedure " in <URL> ( PANS-OPS ) : Racetrack procedure : A procedure designed to enable the aircraft to reduce altitude during the initial approach segment and/or establish the aircraft inbound when the entry into a reversal procedure is not practical . and A racetrack procedure consists of : a ) a turn from the inbound track through 180 ° from overhead the facility or fix on to the outbound track , for 1 , 2 or 3 minutes ; followed by b ) a 180 ° turn in the same direction to return to the inbound track . <URL> For ICAO , a racetrack procedure is a turn procedure , or course reversal procedure , in the instrument approach procedure , comparable to other procedural turns , and has nothing to do with delaying the aircraft : <URL> <URL> . On plates , racetrack turns are depicted using bold lines while holding patterns are depicted using regular lines : <URL> Adapted from <URL> .
Thanks to mins 's link , the <URL> explains everything in detail . To summarise the particular part I was asking about : FG on its own means fog ( visibility < 1000 m ) covers more than half of the horizon PRFG and BCFG are fog covering less than half of the horizon PRFG ( fog bank ) is more extensive than BCFG ( fog patches ) Another way of looking at it is like cloud cover descriptors . FG is like BKN or OVC : more than half the horizon is covered . PRFG is SCT , and then BCFG is FEW . All the above are used when the temperature is above freezing point and the fog reaches more than 2 metres above ground . If the fog is only below 2 metres agl , it 's shallow fog MIFG instead . If the temperature is below freezing , so the fog consists of supercooled water droplets , it 's freezing fog FZFG .
I 'm not at all sure what you 're asking , but maybe I can at least point you towards more information . First , the parts you mentioned define operating rules for different flight types ( I 'm simplifying a bit here ) : <URL> : rules for all flights in the US <URL> : rules for flights by a US airline <URL> : rules for flights by a foreign airline in the US <URL> : rules for ' on demand ' ( usually charter ) flights by a US operator Any given flight will operate under one or more of those sets or rules , e.g. a US airline flight from New York to Los Angeles would follow the rules in parts 91 and 121 ; a foreign flight from London to New York would follow parts 91 and 129 ( while in US airspace ) . Individual operators and airlines also have <URL> that are approved by the FAA and that can add more rules for specific situations . And I 'm not entirely sure , but it looks like <URL> effectively applies part 121 to foreign airlines too , by requiring them to comply with the same rules as US airlines : ( c ) Each foreign air carrier shall conform to the practices , procedures , and other requirements prescribed by the Administrator for U.S. air carriers for the areas to be operated in . Without knowing what your mysterious problem was ( and I understand you ca n't share it ) , I do n't think it 's possible to say much more than that . ( By the way , " filing " is something different . Filing a flight plan is required <URL> but they apply to all aircraft , even private flights . If I want to fly a C172 under IFR then I have to file essentially the same flight plan information that an A380 pilot will file . )
While the true ' reason ' is probably buried in some engineering notebooks from 60 years ago , it basically boils down to a design decision by the team designing the engine controls . Both methods work , and both companies have a list of reasons why they think their solution is ' best ' . P&amp;W will tell you that EPR is a better indication of engine thrust , and they 're right . But it relies on pitot probes to measure the pressures within the engine . Flow stability means response can be slow or erratic and the probes can be clogged causing problems . OTOH , it can indicate problems ( unrelated to the probes ) due to engine damage . GE prefers to use N1 . This is a simple speed indication of the fan . It 's not a direct indication of thrust but is directly correlated . The big advantage is that it is extremely reliable and stable . A good explanation is available from <URL> .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
Here 's an engine with old combustor cans : <URL> Here 's a single annular combustor : <URL> And in cross section : <URL> And now here 's a dual annular combustor ( DAC ) ( <URL> ) in cross section : <URL> See how it 's like one ring ( or donut ) inside another ring . <URL> " like an annular combustor , the DAC is a continuous ring without separate combustion zones around the radius . The difference is that the combustor has two combustion zones around the ring ; a pilot zone and a main zone . The pilot zone acts like that of a single annular combustor , and is the only zone operating at low power levels . At high power levels , the main zone is used as well , increasing air and mass flow through the combustor . "
Your friend is right . Elevator trim is n't setting a pitch , it is compensating for control forces on the elevator , which vary with speed . If you are trimmed for level flight at 100 kias and reduce power the plane will initially slow . As it slows the trim will cause a nose-down moment causing the plane to pitch down . Given no input , the plane will equilibrate at whatever nose-down pitch is needed to regain the forces it was trimmed for , which means speeding back up to 100 kias . You are correct that to maintain 100 kias with reduced power the nose should be lowered , but the trim will take care of that for you . You might have a misconception about how trim works , based on your argument . A typical trim setup in light airplanes is essentially another control surface on the elevator : <URL> The elevator is the large control surface and that smaller control surface is the elevator trim . When you adjust the pitch trim you are adjusting this trim tab which provides a force on the elevator that counters aerodynamic forces . This is why the airplane responds in pitch to maintain constant aerodynamic forces ( e.g. constant indicated airspeed ) for a given trim setting . You can test this in the airplane easily . Take your plane up to the altitude you practice maneuvers at , set 75 % power ( or some other number ) and trim for straight and level . Add power and watch the plane climb , decrease power and watch it descent , both without touching the trim . Go back to straight and level and trimmed and accelerate without climbing -- note you are having to retrim as your speed increases . Decelerate without descending -- note you are retrimming as your speed decreases .
end question
start question
What does the number of white bars in runway 's threshold mean ?
For runways built , refurbished or repainted after January 2008 , the number of bars in the Threshold Markings indicates the width of the runway , as is described in <URL> . Older runways may still use an outdated scheme . Runway threshold markings come in two configurations . They either consist of eight longitudinal stripes of uniform dimensions disposed symmetrically about the runway centerline , as shown in FIG 2-3-1 , or the number of stripes is related to the runway width as indicated in TBL 2-3-2 . A threshold marking helps identify the beginning of the runway that is available for landing . In some instances the landing threshold may be relocated or displaced . <URL> Runway Width | Number of Stripes ================================== 60 feet ( 18 m ) | 4 75 feet ( 23 m ) | 6 100 feet ( 30 m ) | 8 150 feet ( 45 m ) | 12 200 feet ( 60 m ) | 16 With regard to how to tell the difference between Configuration A and B , Advisory <URL> goes into significantly more detail . It states that The threshold markings may have either of the characteristics in ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) below , but after January 1 , 2008 , only those characteristics in ( 2 ) will be acceptable . The details : Configuration A . The runway threshold marking consists of eight longitudinal stripes of uniform dimensions spaced symmetrically about the runway centerline as shown in Figure 1 . The stripes are 150 feet ( 45 m ) long and 12 feet ( 3.6 m ) wide and spaced 3 feet ( 1 m ) apart , except for the center space , which is 16 feet ( 4.8 m ) . For runways less than 150 feet ( 45 m ) in width , the length of the markings is not changed , but the width of the markings , spaces between markings and distance of markings from the runway edge are changed proportionally . For runways greater than 150 feet ( 45m ) in width , the width of the markings and spaces between the markings may be increased proportionally or additional stripes may be added to both sides . The rule for Configuration A markings requires scaling the width of the stripes and their spacings ( and the outboard spacings from the runway edges ) proportionally , keeping the length fixed . For a runway 150 feet wide the Configuration A stripes are 12 ft wide with 3 ft spacings ( and an 8 ft spacing from the inboard stripe to the centreline , leaving 10 ft between the outboard and runway edge ) . The Configuration B stripes are given a fixed width of 5.75 ft with spacings of 5.75 ft also . If a Configuration A scheme were used on a narrow runway such that the stripes were equal to the width of the Configuration B stripes , the runway width would need to be about 72 feet ( 12 ft stripe width for a 150 ft runway width scaled to 5.75 ft for 71.875 ft ) . For a 72 ft wide runway bearing the Configuration A scheme the spacing between stripes would be reduced to slightly less than 1.5 ft. The difference between the schemes therefore ought to be apparent . and Configuration B. For this configuration , the number of stripes required is related to the runway width as indicated in Table 2 . The stripes are 150 feet ( 45 m ) long and 5.75 feet ( 1.75 m ) wide and spaced 5.75 feet ( 1.75 m ) apart except the center space is 11.5 feet ( 3.5 m ) as shown in Figure 1 . The outboard edges of the outboard stripes extend laterally to within 10 feet ( 3 m ) of the edge of a runway or to a distance of 92 feet ( 27 m ) on either side of a runway centerline , whichever results in the smaller lateral distance . This is further borne out by a <URL> which states : The purpose of this CERTALERT is to remind Airport Operators , Airport Certification Safety Inspectors , and Program Managers that paragraph 9 ( d ) states the threshold markings may have either the characteristics in ( 1 ) Configuration A or ( 2 ) Configuration B , but after January 1 , 2008 , only those characteristics in ( 2 ) Configuration B will be acceptable .
I believe the answer , at least in the US is 20 hours of flight time , plus however long a checkride takes . A sport pilot can carry a single passenger and the minimum requirements are outlined in <URL> : If you are applying for a sport pilot certificate with [ ... ] Airplane category and single-engine land or sea class privileges , Then you must log at least [ ... ] 20 hours of flight time , including at least 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a single-engine airplane and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311 , If a sport pilot applicant logged exactly 20 hours , got signed off , and then passed their checkride on the first attempt ... they would be able to fly passengers as soon as they completed the checkride . That means , realistically , probably 21 to 21.5 hours .
Shamelessly quoting from <URL> : ( emphasys mine ) A Condition Lever is a pilot actuated control which is located within the throttle quadrant of a turboprop engine equipped aircraft . It is utilised to control some functions of both the propeller and the engine . These functions vary from installation to installation . Functions of the condition lever can include any of the following : Fuel cut-off . Propeller feathering . Propeller un-feathering . Low idle/high idle selection . Propeller speed control .
The aerodynamic coefficients $ c_l , c_d , c_m $ are in general functions of the angle of attack $ \ alpha $ , Reynolds $ Re $ and Mach number $ Ma $ . For your experiments , since you are operating in a very low $ Re $ regime , assuming incompressible flow , your lift , drag , moment curves will largely depend on viscous phenomena ( i.e. $ Re $ number ) . Generally , as $ Re $ number drops , the boundary layer thickens . For this reason , you will expect a lower $ c_l $ number ( due to viscous decambering ) and a higher $ c_d $ . You may also discover non-linear behaviors even on operating angles due to laminar separation bubble forming/bursting on the suction surface and this is very dependent on the turbulent intensity of your wind tunnel so the stall angles and post-stall behavior may not be the same for flight conditions where turbulent intensity is very low . Finally , you can confirm with Xfoil that for $ Re = 300k \ Rightarrow \ alpha _ { L = 0 } = -4.33 \ deg $ while for $ Re = 150k \ Rightarrow \ alpha _ { L = 0 } = -3.64 \ deg $ for the NACA4412 .
The answer depends on who you ask . The structural engineer would prefer a single wheel , and as few legs as possible , while the aerodynamicist would vote for 8 or 12 wheels , because then the bogie has less frontal area and can be accommodated even in thin wings . Generally , less than two wheels would compromise redundancy , and more are needed to reduce local ground pressure . Remember that the A-300B was initially not allowed on some US airports because of a slightly higher ground pressure . See <URL> for more . Modern designs use two wheels per strut for redundancy when the aircraft is light enough and replace them with a bogie with as many wheels as necessary to carry higher aircraft masses . The A-340-200 has gained a central strut with two wheels ( A-340-200 / 300 ) rsp . a 4-wheel bogie ( A-340-500 / 600 ) , while the equally large , but lighter A-330 uses just the two 4-wheel main gears without the central gear . Airbus could have used two six-wheel bogies , but preferred to keep commonality with the A-330 gear . More than 6 wheels per bogie is very unusual , but there are exceptions : Since the Tu-144 had no thrust reversers , all braking had to be done by the wheel brakes . Additionally , the bogies needed to fit between the intake ducts inside the nacelles , so the final design used 8 wheels with the large housings of the disc brakes sticking out towards the center of the bogie . Tupolev Tu-144 landing gear ( picture <URL> ) . This particular aircraft is parked in the back yard of the Aviation Institute in Kazan . If you want to know how this 8-wheeled monster would fit inside a supersonic airliner , read the answers to <URL> . Convair experimented with different tire sizes for the <URL> and even a tracked version . The initial single wheel design resulted in the biggest aircraft tire ever produced , but in the end the conventional ( but novel at this time ) 4-wheel bogie was preferred because the single wheel had too much ground pressure for most US airbases . Earlier airplanes had used 2-wheel bogies ( Tupolev TB-3 , Junkers G-38 ) or a pair of wheels left and right of the strut ( Douglas DC-4 ) . XB-36 ( first prototype of the B-36 ) taking off ( picture <URL> ) When Air India ordered their first A320s , they were afraid the main wheel pressure would be too much for some Indian airfields . Airbus produced a version with a four-wheel bogie instead of the usual two-wheel main gear of the regular A320 . When they later ordered the A321 , India seemed to have improved their airfields , because the newer planes use the regular two-wheel gear which is mechanically simpler and needs less maintenance . <URL> Air India A320 ( picture <URL> )
The operating procedures for the four airlines I worked for ( 2 commuters and two 747 carriers ) all called for the flying pilot ( which would be the first officer if it was their leg ) to retain control of the airplane until all relevant checklists had been accomplished . That said , it is , of course , the captain 's prerogative to take control at any point . That would , I think , be very unwise to do in the case of an engine failure during takeoff unless the first officer was really screwing up . The greater workload in the 747 during emergency/abnormal procedures lies with the non-flying pilot and the flight engineer ( old 3 man cockpit 747-100s and -200 s ) . The recommended procedure at my last two airlines was , if the captain was flying at the time of the failure , to hand control to the first officer after all relevant checklists had been completed , to thus enable the captain to give his full attention to how best to proceed . My personal and observational experience is that there is little difference between captains and first officers at the 747 level insofar as control manipulation during go/no go situations on the runway in simulators . In fact , I could point you to an accident resulting in the total loss of a 747 when the flying pilot was the Captain , and he elected to abort 30 knots after $ V_1 $ , thus insuring the aircraft would leave the runway .
In the case of the 737 , the first series produced was the 737-100 . Not many were made . Then the 737-200 was built , which was very popular . The third generation of the 737 , known now as the " Classic " , had three variants , the -300 , the -400 , and the -500 . All are very similar , the significant difference being the size . The -300 has bigger ( more powerful , as well as physically larger ) engines than the older -200 did , and a longer cabin . With its success , Boeing decided to lengthen the cabin further , resulting in the -400 . They also made a variant that was essentially the length of the shorter -200 , and since it came along third it got the next designation , the -500 . The next generation of 737 's , known as the " Next Generation " , runs from the -600 through the -900 , and this time Boeing decided to make the numbers correspond with the fuselage length , so the -600 is about as long as the -200 and -500 ( roughly ) , the -700 is comparable to the -300 , the -800 is longer as the -400 was , and the -900 is longer than anything before . Now they 're out of numbers , and so the NEXT generation of 737 's , known as the Max , gets single digit numbers ... the Max -7 ( i.e. 737-7 ) corresponds roughly to the length of the -700 , the Max -8 to the -800 , the Max -9 to the -900 , and so on . The point of this long discussion is simply that the numbers following the dash represent different variants of the aircraft . In some cases , it may be a new generation design ; in other cases it may simply be a different fuselage length . As the <URL> discusses , HOW those numbers are chosen is sometimes driven more by marketing than it is by mathematical progression . Often , though , the higher number indicates a later version , and often-but-not-always , a newer generation . But you really have to know the particular aircraft line to know which it is .
AOPA has <URL> on exactly this question ( written by an attorney ) . Their advice is basically that it 's a judgement call on your part and one that you should think about carefully . Not calling may antagonize the FAA , but calling if it 's a major safety issue may be unwise : That does n't necessarily mean , however , that you should call the telephone number or respond to the FAA 's letter , and blather the most expansive defense you can conjure up . A little judgment is called for here -- and , unfortunately , there are no hard and fast rules . If you think the FAA may be inclined to just admonish you orally or content itself with administrative action , then a humble , cooperative approach may be best . Saying you wo n't talk without a lawyer , when the likely outcome if you do talk is minor , may only prompt the FAA to propose sterner action . Before you talk , however , think carefully about what you want to say , how much to say , what questions the FAA is likely to ask and how you 'll answer them . If , on the other hand , there is a substantial chance the FAA will take certificate action against you or will propose a fine , the best course of action , as I said above , is to hire an attorney . Do n't ignore the FAA ; be polite , but do n't provide more information than the bare outlines of what is already known and obvious to all . State quietly that you understand the FAA 's desire to investigate possible violations , that you take your obligations to fly safely very seriously , and that you will be happy to cooperate . Also say that , unless the FAA is not contemplating action against you , you feel it best to consult a lawyer before proceeding . Since the FAA likely wo n't give you any guarantees , its representative will be the one overreaching if he presses you to respond anyway . Politely decline if he does . I also had a look through the AOPA discussion forums ( members only , so no links ) and my summary of their comments would be : File a <URL> within the 10-day limit , whatever happened If you know what you did wrong and you know it was minor , then make the call If you do n't know what you did wrong then call but be prepared to end the conversation immediately if you have no good response or you realize it 's more serious than you thought If you know you caused a major safety issue ( actual or potential ) then do n't call and get a lawyer instead If you know the person you have to call - e.g. if it 's the tower controller at your home airport - then you should give more weight to calling In general , it 's better to call and have to cut off the conversation than not to call in the first place Whatever you say , keep it short and factual When you find out what you did wrong , get some ground and/or flight training from an instructor to address that specific issue and have him endorse it in your logbook ; this shows the FAA that you 've taken the issue seriously and you 've actively taken steps to make sure you wo n't do it again
Feathering is not engine starting , and also is not used in turbine ( excluding turboprop ) aircraft . In a piston or turbo prop aircraft , in the event of an engine failure , to decrease drag so you can either glide farther or have better performance on the remaining engine ( s ) , you can set the prop pitch lever so instead of facing at a right angle to drive air backwards and produce thrust , the propeller will instead turn edge-first into the airstream , reducing drag . Not all propeller airplanes have this capability , but it 's an added safety feature . In motorgliders ( both light sport aircraft and primary ) without retracting blades , the feathering position turns the prop so that the edge faces into the airstream and also locks the propeller so it no longer turns .
The bypass ratio of a turbofan engine is the ratio of the mass flow rate of the air that bypasses the engine core ( i.e. it does n't undergo combustion ) , $ \ dot { m _ { f } } $ to the mass flow rate of the air that passes through the core $ \ dot { m _ { c } } $ and undergoes combustion . The bypass ratio is usually given as the mass flow of fan by the mass flow of core i.e. $ \ frac { \ dot { m { f } } } { \ dot { m _ { c } } } :1 $ . In some cases , it is given as the ratio of cold air to hot air , $ \ frac { \ dot { m { c } } } { \ dot { m _ { h } } } :1 $ . <URL> So , a bypass ratio of 9.6:1 means that 9.6 kg of air passes through the bypass fan for every 1 kg of air passing through the core .
According to <URL> , it is a super-heavy aircraft capable of generating correspondingly super-strong wake vortices . Currently <URL> are the Airbus A380 and Antonov An-225 ( FAA ) .
At the critical mach number , some part of the aircraft ( usually the wing ) will have air flowing over it at a speed in excess of mach 1 . If the aircraft is not meant to fly at transonic or supersonic speeds , shock waves will flow over the wing . This can either cause the wing to stall , the control surfaces to become unresponsive , or the plane to go into the mach tuck , which is very dangerous . The mach tuck is a phenomenon first observed with the P-38 Lightnings and Spitfires in World War II . These planes were so clean that when dive bombing it was possible to exceed their critical mach number . When this happened the center of lift would move back on the wing . This would cause the plane to ' tuck ' ; the elevators stop functioning , and the plane 's dive becomes steeper and steeper until the aircraft is actually partially inverted . Recovery can be attempted by lowering the gear , extending the dive brakes , and lowering the flaps . In later versions of the P-38 a small ' speed bump ' flap was added for diving which caused a more even pressure distribution on the wing , and decreased the chance of entering a mach tuck .
There is hardly anything that ca n't be found with the help of a few friends and the Library of Congress . <URL> Pp.52-57 . Plant No. 1 ( Kuibyshev ) : Non-flyable [ what the heck is that ?? ] MiG-15 : 2 in 1949 , 4 in 1950 . 10 knock-down UTI MiG-15 kits were produced in 1951 . Plant No. 153 - Novosibirsk Plant No. 381 ( Leningrad ) : 1949 - 75 MiG-15 Plant No. 21 ( Gor ' ky ) : Plant No. 31 - Tbilisi Plant No. 126 - Komsomo ' ls ' k-NA-Amure Plant No. 292 - Saratov Plant No. 135 - Kharkiv Plant No. 99 ( Ulan-Ude ) Totals for the USSR ( may contain errors , have n't double-checked ) :
The paperwork he was looking at is the dispatch release . This paperwork will have Crew names Fuel information Filed route of flight Alternates as needed Current weather Forecast weather at destination and alternates NOTAMS for departure , destination , alternates , navaids and anything along the route of flight . Deferred MEL items There are also probably a few things I 'm forgetting at the moment . When the captain gets the release the first thing to do is make sure it is for you -- correct crew names and airplane . You 'll check the route of flight and make sure it will work ( weather ) and evaluate the ordered fuel . You 'll review the destination weather , see if an alternate is needed and make sure a suitable one was filed . You 'll also check departure weather and make sure a takeoff alternate is specified if needed . If the paperwork is n't right , you call your dispatcher , otherwise you sign it and take it down to the airplane . The one-page item the captain got may have been a pre-departure clearance . These are generally available via ACARS but can be printed if needed at a terminal . They could also be other information such as ground delay programs or ground stop information that affects the flight .
There is no fix maximum a controller is allowed to have under control , as <URL> already pointed out . The airspace under control of ATC is divided up into sectors containing the airways to and from airports within that sector or in upper sectors , airways just for en-route traffic . ( see also : <URL> ) . Sectors can be merged during off-peak hours , split back into separate sectors during peak hours and in the case of TMA or approach sectors , the controller owning the sector can receive additional help by splitting the approach sector further and using different controllers for different tasks within that sector : Feeder/Pickup - Director - Departure Controller . The thresholds of when a sector is split is dependent on many factors , like weather , runway in use , outside influences like adjacent sectors having more traffic that usual , special occurances within that sector like parachute jumper drops . Sectors also vary in size and capacity based on their intended use . While TMA/Approach sectors are rather small and need to accomodate arriving traffic into an airfield , an enroute or upper sector can be significantly larger in size , lateral and vertical . Again , this is individual to each sector , because some factors which hold true for TMA sectors do not apply to enroute upper sectors and vice versa . It also really depends on the controller working the sector and his personal limits , favorite procedures and work practice . A few examples : A TMA controller using vectors to the approach instead of standard arrival routes or transitions will have more workload to monitor and sequence aircraft . The minimum radar separation in TMA sectors and upper sectors can be either 3NM or 5NM . While upper sectors are larger in size , they have to maintain a greater separation , so in some cases , an upper sector twice or multiple times the size of a TMA sector will only be able to accomodate the same number of aircraft ( ceteris paribus ) before reaching saturation . A controller having to work with special situations such as aircraft in distress or student pilots requiring more attention than experienced pilots , will reduce the controllers personal capacity . In summary , to answer your question : There is a situation and controller based threshold , at which saturation will be reached . Controllers are trained to anticipate this threshold and make their supervisor aware of the situation beforehand , so that measures can be taken . There is however no fixed numerical maximum , unless specified in the ARTCC/ACC 's operating procedures .
Flight hours are limited to 30 hours in 7 days , 100 hours in a month and 1000 in a year . Scheduling rules also say I need at least 1 day off a week , so 6 day trips are the max for me ( 121 US domestic scheduled ) . Let 's look at a typical trip , which at my company tended to be a 4 day trip . You want good productive trips , but you ca n't always get them . On a 4 day trip let 's say I have 6 hours of flight scheduled each day , or 24 hours scheduled that week . I am getting paid the better of 24 hours or the actual flight time . Now let 's look at my duty day . For a 6 hour day with 4 legs it was not unheard of to have a 12 hour duty day . So now for a 4 day trip , I 'm " at work " 48 hours and being paid for half of that . Now consider that I 'm not going home every night and my trip starts at 6 am on Friday and ends at midnight Monday night -- that totals to 90 hours away from home . How does this compare to a 40 hour work week in an office ? In that case you are on duty 40 hours , getting paid 40 hours ( or salary ) and if you have a 1 hour commute one way , you are spending 50 hours away from home . Back to the flight schedule . A given month will have trips less productive than 24 hours and although you can probably build a 96 hour month if you tried , the average line of flying is typically going to be 75 hours of flying . You can ballpark that will equate to 150 duty hours and 300 hours away from home for the month . Extrapolate that to a year , and you have 900 flight hours , 1800 duty hours and 3600 hours away from home . I would say this represents the average US domestic 121 pilot . Some do more , some do less , but this is pretty typical . What do we do with all of that duty time that is n't flying ? Let 's see : Eating Updating charts Checking the weather Checking the paperwork Coordinating with gate agents , ramp agents , fuel agents to make sure we leave on time Programming the FMS and getting our IFR clearance Preflighting the airplane Postflighting the airplane Doing the weight and balance Sleeping Note , that all of these activities require we are at the airport , in the secure area and we are not being paid . The pay clock starts ( roughly ) when the airplane is buttoned up and the parking brake is released and ends when the parking brake is set and main cabin door opened .
Yes it can be . Whether the aircraft can fly with the centre of gravity outside this range is a different matter altogether . When flying , the aircraft is balanced around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . Aerodynamic forces from the wing and the tail provide the balance , but up to a maximum . At some point the aerodynamic lift capacity of the tail is saturated . In order to make sure that the balance can be achieved , the centre of aerodynamic force must be within certain limits of the centre of gravity . Or the other way around : CoG must be within certain limits of centre of lift , which is the better way to define it , making the CoG the variable .
If a door is put into armed mode , it will trigger the <URL> when the door is opened . Prior to departure ( usually before engine startup ) , all the aircraft doors are placed into the armed ( or automatic ) mode by the cabin crew . Methods of arming vary from aircraft to aircraft , but ultimately the girt bar ( a metal bar attached to the door end of the slide ) is physically attached to brackets either in or adjacent to the door sill . [ ... ] If a rapid evacuation is required and the doors are opened while " armed " , the opening of the door pulls the slide pack out of the bustle ( because the girt bar is physically attached to the aircraft floor ) This is also the reason for the famous <URL> : DOORS TO ARRIVAL AND CROSSCHECK " Flight attendants , doors to arrival and crosscheck . " Meaning : Occasionally heard as " disarm your doors and crosscheck , " and announced by the lead flight attendant or purser as a plane approaches the gate . The intent is to verify disarming of the emergency escape slides attached to the doors . When armed , a slide will automatically deploy the instant its door is opened . Disarmed , it needs to be deployed manually . On departure the slides are armed to facilitate an emergency evacuation . ( You might hear this as " doors to automatic . " ) Upon docking , they 're disarmed to keep them from billowing into the boarding tunnel or onto the apron during servicing . The orange or yellow tape is a visual indicator for ground workers or ramp agents that the doors are armed or not armed . The visual indicator can vary , it can also be built into the door lock mechanism , triggering a visual indicator externally if the door is locked and armed . In the following picture , the orange tape is not strapped over the window , which should indicate an unarmed door . In the video that this image is taken from , the flight attendant has just locked and possibly armed the door , the other flight attendant would place the orange tape over the door window during " cross-check " . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Exupery747 )
Here is Boeing 's Examples Block numbers ZA001 Onwards - B787-8 ZB001 Onwards - B787-9 ZC001 Onwards - B787-10 ZD001 Onwards - rebuild of prototypes Line numbers are the serial number of the aircraft of that aircraft type Serial Number is the manufacturers serial ( basically the number of aircraft they have built up to that aircraft ) Airbus does n't use the Boeing Line/Serial numbers , they use a different system where the aircraft serial number is in fact the aircraft line number and the total # of the aircraft being built .
Aerodynamic noise has many sources . It is not white noise , because some frequencies are dominant . Generally it happens when flows of different speed collide , or when a standing wave develops in a cavity . Common noise sources are : Uncovered openings , like vent holes or control surface gaps . Like when you blow across the top of an open bottle , they produce a howling sound with a dominant frequency that depends on flow speed and opening size . Tollmien-Schlichting waves in the boundary layer . These frequencies change with speed and their location along the flow path , and generally are responsible for most of the hissing sound of gliders . Separated flow , which produces alternating separations behind blunt bodies . Here the main frequency is that of the Karman vortex street that forms behind them . It can be calculated if the <URL> Sr of the flow is known . This is the equation for the main frequency $ f $ of a bracing wire with the diameter $ d $ : $ $ f = Sr \ cdot \ frac { v } { d } $ $ Here $ v $ is the airspeed , and for bracing wires Sr is normally 0.2 . Bracing wires ( or a blunt trailing edge , for that purpose ) produce a characteristic whistling sound . As you said , the landing configuration makes most noise . In addition to the factors above , you now have Extended flaps , mostly with gaps between them which show high local flow speed . This local high-speed flow is very noisy . Many more blunt objects sticking out of the airframe : Landing gears , gear covers or landing lights . The particular noise of landing gears was once tested with a <URL> which had styrofoam gears fitted under the wings . They broke off when it had to land , but yielded valuable data when compared to the noise of the clean glider . Sorry , there is no photo of this experiment on the web ! The gaping hole of the landing gear well . Especially while the gear is moved , this creates a lot of noise , but even after extension a part of the well is uncovered and adds its noise . <URL> is a good overview of different noise sources . It is best read with a good working knowledge of German . To answer your question : The sound is a mixture of hissing and whistling in different frequencies . If you stand close to the Autobahn ( best is a section without speed restrictions ) , the noise of the passing cars is similar , but less intense . At 180 km/h , engine noise starts to vanish in all the aerodynamic and tire noises ...
end question
start question
Why does the static pressure inside the cockpit vary from outside static pressure ?
You 're referring to this statement in the <URL> : Some aircraft are equipped with an alternate static source in the flight deck . In the case of a blocked static source , opening the alternate static source introduces static pressure from the flight deck back into the system . Flight deck static pressure is lower than outside static pressure . The reason for this error with alternate static source is that the air flowing around the airframe creates a slight vacuum inside the airframe , thereby lowering the barometric pressure and generating erroneous readings in the pitot-static system .
On commercial aircraft the oxygen supply of the masks in the cabin comes either from a chemical oxygen generator or a centralized oxygen bottle system . The flight deck is always equipped with pressurized oxygen masks . The chemical oxygen generators generate lots of heat when they are activated . When normally placed in their overhead compartments the heat is slowly dissipated . However , oxygens generators are hazardous when canisters are not in their appropriate place . The <URL> crash into the Everglades on 11 May 1996 was caused by a fire after improperly packed oxygen generators in the cargo hold were accidentally activated . Pressurized oxygen bottles also are hazardous . Not only because the oxygen can turn a small fire into a blaze but if the high pressure bottles explode they cause substantial damage . On 25 July 2008 an oxygen bottle installed in a <URL> ruptured and propelled itself upward through the floor into the cabin .
Both pressure and velocity are related : The total energy of an air molecule outside of the boundary layer is constant and the sum of its pressure and its velocity component . Mathematically , the energy per unit of volume is $ $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 + p = const $ $ which is actually the simplest form of <URL> which neglects changes in altitude and temperature . In the end , it 's not this causes that , but both components fluctuate in sync and combine to a constant total . Nomenclature : $ \ rho \ :\ : $ density $ v \ :\ : $ speed $ p \ :\ : $ pressure
This depends on the aircraft : DC9 , MD80 , B727 , B737 On some ( especially older model ) aircraft doors such as the Boeing 737 for instance this is directly dangerous , since the slide is attached on the inside by hand with the means of a girt bar to the aircraft . There is hence no way to open the door without the slide going off should it be armed . There is a helpful notice in red on the outside to " stand clear " when the red banner is crosses the window , the indication that it is armed . Judging by the space required and force the doors have , this is still most probably very dangerous idea that should not be used unless absolutely necessary . <URL> Airbus , B757 , B767 , B777 , MD11 , E-Jets On more modern aircraft , this is safe : opening the door externally will push the arm handle to the disarmed position before proceeding to open it . This is for instance the case on all Airbus aircraft . <URL> provides a nice example .
Yes <URL> <URL> ( 2002 ) <URL> ( 2002 ) JetBlue Airways is the first U.S. carrier to get approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to install video cameras on all its airplanes . JetBlue is a successful start-up carrier based at New York 's John F. International Kennedy airport . Soon after the Sept. 11 hijackings , the airline installed bullet-proof cockpit doors on all its planes . And it was the first carrier to match all luggage to passengers . The airline has outfitted one plane with the video surveillance system , and plans to have its 23 other jets equipped with the miniature cameras within the next few months . The cameras are positioned to cover the entire cabin . Some are visible , others are hidden so they can not be tampered with <URL> ( 2008 ) The European Union 's Security of Aircraft in the Future European Environment ( SAFEE ) project uses a camera in every passenger 's seat , with six wide-angle cameras to survey the aisles . Software then analyses the footage to detect developing terrorist activity or " air-rage " incidents , by tracking passengers ' facial expressions . <URL> ( 2012/2013 ? ) KID-Systeme has been selected to supply cabin surveillance equipment for the Airbus A350 XWB family of aircraft . The integrated solution will include both a cockpit door surveillance system ( CDSS ) and a cabin video monitoring system ( CVMS ) . The CDSS provides pilots with a clear view of anyone in the area of the cockpit door , enabling them to take the appropriate action when entry to the cockpit is requested . The CVMS allows both the pilots and the cabin crew to view passengers .
Yes it can be . Whether the aircraft can fly with the centre of gravity outside this range is a different matter altogether . When flying , the aircraft is balanced around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . Aerodynamic forces from the wing and the tail provide the balance , but up to a maximum . At some point the aerodynamic lift capacity of the tail is saturated . In order to make sure that the balance can be achieved , the centre of aerodynamic force must be within certain limits of the centre of gravity . Or the other way around : CoG must be within certain limits of centre of lift , which is the better way to define it , making the CoG the variable .
Here is what I am getting : <URL> : Sea level : 101300 Pa 30,000 feet : 30100 Pa Mach : Sea level1 ( 150 kt ) : 0.22 Cruise2 : 0.85 <URL> : 1.4 Using the equation : Landing : $ 3432.044 Pa = 73.68 lbf/ft ^ 2 $ Cruise : $ 15223.075 Pa = 317.94 lbf/ft ^ 2 $ So the high Mach in cruise more than compensates for the lower static pressure . <URL> agrees . 1Landing speeds for large jets are generally between 120-150 knots ( Mach 0.18-0 .22 ) . Smaller planes around 60 knots ( Mach 0.091 ) . You can convert to Mach <URL> or using a calculator like <URL> . 2Cruise speeds are generally between 240-280 kias ( knots indicated airspeed ) for large jets , which translates to around 450-500 knots ground speed and Mach 0.75-0 .85 ( depending on altitude and conditions ) .
It is usually required to file a flight plan for international flights ( with very few exceptions ) , and I 'll assume this is the case for Canada/US as well , but I 'm not 100 % sure of this . In this case you have two options You close your flight plan and let ATC or FSS know where you are , they 'll note it 's an international flight that landed somewhere without customs , and you 're likely to end up in trouble . You do n't close your flight plan , and you 'll trigger a search-and-rescue operation as you 'll eventually be overdue , drawing attention to yourself , and you 're equally likely to end up in trouble . Not to mention that you 'll probably be liable for the cost of the search-and-rescue . You could of course file a plan with a drastically reduced TAS , do a very quick stop , and arrive at the original destination within the grace period . I do n't know if that will trigger any surveillance systems though . If you do n't file a flight plan and cross the border anyway , I 'm guessing that you will indeed trigger some alerts though .
No , EASA can not access anything . You will be asked to bring your medical records to the exams . Neither EASA nor your examining doctor is able to access any of your medical records without your consent . It 's restricted personal information . Some countries already have medical records in digital ( computerized ) form , but many still rely on written data . In any case , EU institutions have no jurisdiction outside of EU . You will also be given a questionnaire that will include a checkbox for any known medical conditions you have ( or had in the past ) . I do n't know what your condition is/was , but it might be a good idea to consult a private examiner first before checking anything on the list that might prevent you from getting a certificate issued .
Oil Pressure lines typically sends oil to the Bearings and Gearboxes of the Engine , from the oil pump . The Scavange lines typically collects the oil from those areas and send it back to the Oil tank , getting cooled and filtered along the way .
The short answer is that it 's what the market wanted . There is always a lot of discussions between the airlines and manufacturer 's before Airbus or Boeing commits to building a new aircraft . In this case both Boeing and Airbus came to the same decision -- the airlines were being driven by one single factor to replace their A320 or B737 fleets , they just wanted to reduce fuel expenses . That 's why the Airbus is the ' neo ' new engine option . The airlines made it clear that any new aircraft purchases would be based on operational savings and that 's primarily driven by fuel burn and the resulting costs . The solution to that is a new engine . Putting in a new flight deck is a huge expense for the manufacturers which would drive costs up and the airlines wo n't pay extra for something that does n't save them money . There 's no cost benefit to a new flight deck , especially when ( as others noted ) you have a huge investment in an existing fleet . In fact , all it 's likely to do is add costs . With a new flight deck you 'll have a huge increase in maintenance and spares costs due to the need for stocking more parts with new part numbers ( just adding a part number to a logistics system costs significant money . ) You 'll also need new crew training simulators due to the different displays and controls , whereas the neo option can be handled with software upgrades . And if it drives a need for new type ratings , that would mean more training costs and making sure you have the crews with the right rating at the right time . In my experience in 20 years dealing with this market , airlines only spend money for two reasons : It will increase their profit margins The FAA ( or other regulatory agency ) mandates that they have it . Aside from that , you should consider Airbus ' side . They 're trying to sell airplanes and they have to compete with Boeing . Since the avionics architecture is quite different between the A320/A330 and the A350 , moving to it would add huge costs and a couple years delay in entry into service . They also have to deal with the fact that airlines do n't want to see a big price increase . Prices for the A320neo and B737MAX are not significantly higher than the current/older versions . If the competition can offer a 7 to 9 % reduction in fuel burn for approximately current prices , spending an extra 2 or 3 years to match that with a new flight deck means a lot of lost sales in the interim . And you probably wo n't make enough margin to recoup the new flight deck costs .
It is called " standard pressure " because 29.92 In-Hg ( or 1013.25 hPa ) is the standard atmospheric pressure at sea level according to both the <URL> ( International Standard Atmosphere ) and the <URL> . Below 18,000 ft , local altimeter settings are used because you need to know how high you are above terrain , or whether or not you 're at the proper altitude for an instrument approach , or at pattern altitude , etc. . In cruising flight above 18,000 ft , except for a few places in the world , you are well above any terrain , so errors in actual altitude of even a couple thousand feet is unlikely to cause a problem . In this case , having all airplanes use a common altimeter setting is useful because it 1 . does n't require you to change it frequently as you pass through changes in pressure , and 2 . it helps ATC ensure separation without having to inform flights every 10 minutes of a new setting . It makes sense to use standard pressure in this case because it represents a good baseline average , and you may have noticed that reported altimeter settings tend to average around 29.92 anyway . That being said , there are instances where you may still need to know the en-route altimeter settings for flight planning purposes . Suppose the minimum safe altitude along your route is 19,000 ft MSL and current pressure is 29.42 . If you decided to cruise at FL190 , you would actually be flying at about 18,500 ft MSL , and would be below your minimum safe altitude . Colder than standard temperature can have similar effect as low pressure , and will result in the airplane being lower than the indicated altitude .
Because the requirements were different . When U-2 was developed , the requirement was for an aircraft which would fly high at 70,000 ' due to the ( mistaken ) belief that the Soviets would be able to detect and engage aircraft only below that altitudes . Once the U-2 entered service however , it became obvious that they could detect U-2 ( they complained about the overflights , though misidentifying the aircraft ) , and once <URL> , it became obvious that U2 is n't going to be of much help . SR-71 , which came later , was the result of a requirement which expected it to not only fly higher , but more importantly , faster . Interestingly , the Soviets went the same way with the <URL> . The main reason for the retirement of spy aircraft was the advent of reconnaissance satellites , which are immune to being shot down ( not that it is impossible , but no one has done it except in tests ) . Spy aircraft are still operated only over areas where the threat from anti-aircraft systems are extremely limited or non-existent . At the time of its retirement , the USAF accepted that <URL> : In congressional testimony , Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Larry D. Welch identified the increased survivability of reconnaissance satellites , SR-71 vulnerability to the Soviet SAM-5 surface-to-air missile and the cost of maintaining the SR-71 fleet . As for why U2 has outlived the SR-71 , the main reason is the operating costs - the operating costs of SR-71 is quoted to be <URL> , while the U-2 <URL> ( incidentally , U-2s operating cost is less than that of its proposed replacement , the <URL> ) . From the <URL> : The Air Force decision to retire the Blackbirds in 1990 is based on several factors . ... The cost factor is the most significant to the Air Force because it limits expenditures in other areas . Reagan Administration Air Force Secretary Edward C. Aldridge Jr. estimated that the money used to operate the SR-71 fleet could operate and maintain two tactical fighter wings .
The air moves around the fuselage , which causes a localized increase in velocity around the aircraft . This increase in velocity causes a slight decrease in the outside air pressure , which effectively sucks air out of the fuselage , making the cabin at a slightly higher pressure altitude . The effect is localized . While the reduction in pressure , and increase in pressure altitude inside the cabin is small , many GA aircraft display a 40 foot or so difference in pressure altitude between the alternate static port ( inside the aircraft ) and the pressure altitude with the factory static port .
Here is a plot of cabin pressure on one flight . You can see a small increase in pressure right before takeoff . The decrease and increase in pressure is fairly constant during climb and descent . The pressure will change based on the aircraft 's altitude , and will not reach a minimum limit until closer to the aircraft 's service ceiling . This keeps pressure changes as slow as possible while giving a lower cabin altitude when below the service ceiling . <URL>
The answer depends on what kind of aircraft you 're talking about , and how much control the crew has over the pressurization systems . For example , in theory you could very well reduce or completely shut off the air to the cabin on a 777 . This could also be done by a single crew member alone . The pilots have full control of this system should say the one of the engines produce bad air to that cabin and would needed to be switched off . As for the oxygen masks - these are for emergency descent use and have a generator that runs out after about 15 minutes . The crew bottles last a bit longer I think , but these will also have a limit , and doing any attempt to break through the bullet-proof cockpit door in those conditions I 'd imagine would be very difficult , since I 'm not sure you 're still picking up the amount of oxygen you normally would . For a similar situation ( though not a deliberate attempt ) you can read up on <URL> . For an idea of how the pilot masks look , see <URL> . <URL> Source : <URL>
Any body moving in a fluid experiences pressure forces over its surface . The concepts of center of pressure , aerodynamics center and neutral point are useful in understanding the effects of these forces . Let 's take an airfoil moving in air with subsonic flow attached to the body . Center of Pressure The center of pressure is the point where the total sum of a pressure field acts on a body . In aerospace , this is the point on the airfoil ( or wing ) where the resultant vector ( of lift and drag ) acts . <URL> Source : avstop.com As the airfoil angle of attack changes , the pressure field changes . Due to this , the center of pressure changes with variation in the angle of attack . In the airplane 's normal range of flight attitudes , if the angle of attack is increased , the center of pressure moves forward ; and if decreased , it moves rearward . <URL> Source : www.flightlearnings.com As the center of gravity ( the point where the weight of the body acts ) is fixed , this movement of center of pressure affects the stability of the aircraft . Aerodynamic Center The resultant ( or the pressure forces ) also cause a moment on the airfoil . As the angle of attack increases , the pitching moment at a point ( for example , the center of gravity ) also changes . However , the pitching moment remains constant at a particular point , which is called the aerodynamic center . <URL> Source : www.theairlinepilots.com For symmetric airfoils in subsonic flight the aerodynamic center is located approximately 25 % of the chord from the leading edge of the airfoil . This point is described as the quarter-chord point . Thus the aerodynamic center does not change with variation in angle of attack . Due to this , the aerodynamic center , rather than the center of pressure is used in the analysis of longitudinal stability . Neutral Point Consider the whole aircraft . The lift of the wing acting through the center of pressure is in front of the center of gravity of the aircraft . This causes a destabilizing motion ( increase in lift to increase in angle of attack causes a nose up moment , further increasing angle of attack ) . This is counteracted by the moment produced by the lift of the horizontal stabilizer ( which is a small wing ) , acting behind the center of gravity . <URL> " <URL> " by User_A1 - SVG derivative of Public Domain work by G J Vigurs . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . As the center of gravity is moved forward , the stability of the aircraft increases ( as the main wing lift arm is reduced ) and the aircraft is statically stable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the center of gravity is moved aft , the main wing lift moment arm increases and the aircraft stability decreases . The aircraft is said to be statically unstable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the aircraft is stable when center of gravity is in the nose and unstable when center of gravity is in the tail , there is a position in the middle where the aircraft is neither stable nor unstable i.e the stability is neutral . This point is called the neutral point . The neutral point is fixed for a particular aerodynamic configuration of the aircraft . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov Thus , Center of pressure of an aircraft is the point where the Lift acts . Aerodynamic center is the point in the wing where the pitching moments are constant . Neutral point it the location of center of gravity where the aircraft is neutrally stable
Compute maneuvering speed below max gross using the formula $ V_A \ sqrt { \ frac { W_2 } { W_1 } } $ , where $ V_A $ is the maneuvering speed at max gross , $ W_2 $ is actual weight , and $ W_1 $ is max gross . Unlike $ V _ { NO } $ , the maneuvering speed varies in proportion to the square root of the mass of the airplane . The reason for this is a bit tricky . The trick is that $ V_A $ is not a force limit but rather an acceleration limit . When the manufacturers determine a value for $ V_A $ , they are not worried about breaking the wing , but are worried about breaking other important parts of the airplane , such as the engine mounts . These items do n't directly care how much force the wing is producing ; they just care about the acceleration they are undergoing . By increasing the mass of the airplane , you decrease the overall acceleration that results from any overall force . ( Of course , if you increase the mass of cargo , it increases the stress on the cargo-compartment floor -- but it decreases the stress on unrelated components such as engine mounts , because the acceleration is less . ) Denker , John S. , <URL> , § 2.14.2 " <URL> , " accessed 16 Aug 2015 .
Pressure Altitude As defined by FAA in the <URL> : Pressure altitude is the height above a standard datum plane ( SDP ) , which is a theoretical level where the weight of the atmosphere is 29.92 " Hg ( 1,013.2 mb ) as measured by a barometer . An altimeter is essentially a sensitive barometer calibrated to indicate altitude in the standard atmosphere . If the altimeter is set for 29.92 " Hg SDP , the altitude indicated is the pressure altitude . As atmospheric pressure changes , the SDP may be below , at , or above sea level . Pressure altitude is important as a basis for determining airplane performance , as well as for assigning flight levels to airplanes operating at or above 18,000 feet . The pressure altitude can be determined by either of two methods : 1 . Setting the barometric scale of the altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indicated altitude . 2 . Applying a correction factor to the indicated altitude according to the reported altimeter setting . <URL> From <URL> § 91.217 Data correspondence between automatically reported pressure altitude data and the pilot 's altitude reference . ( a ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder -- ( 1 ) When deactivation of that equipment is directed by ATC ; ( 2 ) Unless , as installed , that equipment was tested and calibrated to transmit altitude data corresponding within 125 feet ( on a 95 percent probability basis ) of the indicated or calibrated datum of the altimeter normally used to maintain flight altitude , with that altimeter referenced to 29.92 inches of mercury for altitudes from sea level to the maximum operating altitude of the aircraft ; or ( 3 ) Unless the altimeters and digitizers in that equipment meet the standards of TSO-C10b and TSO-C88 , respectively . ( b ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder or with ADS-B Out equipment unless the pressure altitude reported for ADS-B Out and Mode C/S is derived from the same source for aircraft equipped with both a transponder and ADS-B Out . ICAO has described how they calculate Pressure Altitude <URL> <URL> When the ISA mean sea level standard pressure of 1013.2 hPa is set on an aircraft altimeter subscale , the height so indicated upon landing at an airfield is known as the QNE reading . More widely , this is also the PRESSURE ALTITUDE , which is alternatively defined as the height of any level in the international standard atmosphere ( ISA-see above ) , above the level corresponding to a pressure of 1013.2 hPa . <URL> to calculate standard atmospheric conditions ( ISA ) at a given geometric or pressure altitude and ambient temperature .
There are many details to recognize , for example : The handle that locks the doors . <URL> <URL> Another way is to read the safety card , on them , you can read clearly if you are on a Boeing or Airbus , and on which type as well . The first picture is a typical Boeing 's door , and the second , an Airbus ' . ( source internet pictures from different types of handles ) On Airbus A32F , when the landing gear extends , the exit lights will turn on . The cabin interior differs from company to company , however the cockpit is unique , but nowadays , passengers are not allowed to visit the cockpit during the flights . If you seat on the seats , from where you can identify the winglet , they could give you some tips , most of the Airbus A32F have shark winglet , but it is changing , however , scimitar winglets are typical from New generation Boeings 737 .
end question
start question
What are fuel biases ?
Fuel bias is as you described it . As the engine ages , it burns more fuel than a brand new one . The fuel flow ( and drag ) corrections are entered into the FMS . This would allow the FMS calculated quantity not to disagree with the tanks totalizer . The figures are based off previous flights and engine tests . Maintenance personnel can refine the database by entering correction factors for drag and fuel flow . ( 737 manual ) also There are also " biases " to consider , depending on the make and model of aircraft . For example with Gulfstream aircraft , our flight planning experts typically add a 16 % bias for flights of less than three hours . However , biases depend on the age of the aircraft , how the operator flies it , planned flight level , and speed . So , it 's best practice for operators to compare actual fuel burns with flight plan burns to confirm accuracy . ( <URL> ) Boeing does not call it bias when I checked the 787/737 manuals , but ' bias ' is likely a flight planning software term . <URL> ( <URL> ) From a flight planner for a flight sim . <URL> ( <URL> ) Random real flight plan . Note : company software differs . <URL> Boeing 787 FMS interface where the drag and fuel flow corrections are entered .
There are a number of factors that go into it : <URL> Jet-A is used in a much higher volume than 100LL . All the jet engine commercial aircraft each day burn through orders of magnitude more Jet-A than piston aircraft burn through 100LL . That means that there is a much higher production volume , and therefore a cost savings as a result . Buying in volume It is pretty rare for a jet to taxi up and take on 50 gallons of Jet-A . Even the smaller jets rarely take on less than a couple hundred gallons . If you went up to your local FBO and said that you wanted 500 gallons of 100LL , they would find a way to get a discount for you . 100LL is special Leaded fuels are not manufactured anymore for any other purpose than 100LL . There is a push in the aviation industry to <URL> altogether , but this is n't happening for a while . As a result , it takes a special process to add lead to the fuel , equipment not used for any other purpose . Jet-A on the other hand is n't incredibly different from diesel # 1 or kerosene , at least in the way it is processed . Negotiated contracts Because airlines buy so much fuel , they have negotiated contracts directly with fuel suppliers . These contracts help bring the price down because of competition , and the supplier is running a steady supply of fuel for the airline . I 'm not sure why you would think that 100LL would be cheaper , it 's sold in low volume , it is expensive to make , and it is environmentally unfriendly and toxic .
This question ( sorry to say ) is sort of moot because : if you have an urgency to land ( e.g. cargo fire ) , you do n't care if you are overweight and you 'd land anyway if you have time to dump fuel , the situation is n't as desperate , and you can easily wait just a bit longer . The large jets ( e.g. Airbus A380 , Boeing 777 ) have a fuel dumping system because , with full fuel , these planes can travel up to 12 hours or more ! That is to say , if you do n't dump fuel , you might have to fly around all day to get down to your normal landing weight . Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 are different : they usually fly 1 ~ 3 hours route , and may stretch to 6 hours on a full tank . So , to begin with , you need less time to burn fuel . Plus , these ( relatively ) small planes can land on shorter runways , which means your airport choice will not be as restricted as with a large jet . Now , as to actually answering your question ... . Flaps and gears have speed restrictions . You can not fly full throttle with these deployed . That being said , if the pilots put the airplane in landing configuration ( full flaps + gear down ) , drag will increase significantly and they will need more thrust to maintain altitude and airspeed . You can technically achieve that with spoilers , but it 's dangerous . Spoilers destroy lift , so what you 're really doing is reducing the effectiveness of your wings and compensate that by flying faster and/or increasing your angle of attack . Then again , if you 're desperate , just land right away ... .
First of all , keep in mind that the Philippines has one of the shortest average populations on Earth . Their average passenger weighs a lot less than an average American or European , since weight scales roughly with the cube of height . So , 436 Filipinos do n't weigh nearly as much as 436 , say , Americans or Europeans , assuming average populations from each group . <URL> , the average Filipino male of age > = 20 is only 5 ' 3.5 " ( 162cm ) and the average female age > = 20 is 4 ' 11 " ( 150 cm . ) Compare those numbers to 5 ' 9.5 " ( 176 cm ) for males and 5 ' 4 " ( 162 cm ) for females for Americans age > = 20 . Considering the roughly cubic scale , that 's a pretty significant mass difference . Second , why would putting more passengers on board not be fuel efficient ? It will make the aircraft heavier , but it also means that you 're carrying that many more people in one trip . My guess would be that you 'll burn less fuel per passenger-mile , rather than more . To get a rough estimate , <URL> . If we assume the average Filipino weighs about 120 lb . ( this seems like a reasonable guess based on my experiences in the Philippines , ) 436 passengers would come out to 52,320 lb . while the 293 passengers on <URL> would be 35,160 lb . So , you 're increasing mass before fuel by only around 5.5 % while increasing passenger count by a whooping 49 % . It would be hard to find a scenario in which that does not use less fuel per passenger-mile ( unless , of course , you 're overweight and ca n't take off at all . ) Regarding the issue of avoiding being overweight ( and , thus , being able to take off , ) Cebu Pacific normally does n't run routes anywhere near the 6,100 nmi range of a fully-loaded A330-300 . This means that they wo n't need to carry a full fuel load . Even a 10 % reduction in fuel load from the maximum capacity of an A330-300 would equal the entire added weight of going from 293 passengers to 436 . Even at full fuel load , though , judging from the previously-referenced numbers on Wikipedia , we get : Operating Empty Weight ( OEW ) : 274,500 lb . Full Fuel Load : 175,170 lb . 436 120 lb . passengers : 52,320 lb . 14 flight + cabin crew x 120 lb . = 1,680 lb . Total before cargo : 503,670 lb . Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) : 534,000 lb . So , that still leaves 30,000 lb . for cargo and anything else that 's needed , even if they did need to carry a full fuel load for some reason . The issue of why Cebu Pacific does n't offer Business/First class cabins was also mentioned . The reasons for this are mostly their target demographic and their route network ( combined with the already-explained lack of weight limit . ) While there are many business travelers going to and from Cebu City , the routes on which these travelers are typically traveling are already well-served by several high-end airlines that also offer onward connections to Europe and the Americas ( e.g. Cathay Pacific to Hong Kong , Korean Air and Asiana to Seoul , Japan Airlines to Tokyo , Emirates to Dubai , EVA to Taipei . ) Additionally , Philippine Airlines also already competes in that space ( in addition to apparently offering direct flights from Cebu to LAX now , which I think is a rather recent development . ) With their low-cost model and lack of alliance partners for onward connections , it would be difficult for Cebu Pacific to compete for the already well-served premium-cabin demand in Cebu . Instead , their business model is catered to serving Filipinos traveling between islands and to regional destinations where lots of Filipinos work out-of-country . Last I heard , approximately 10,000,000 Filipinos worked outside the Philippines ( around 10 % of their total population , ) so serving that demographic is not a small market . In case it 's not obvious , this is an extremely price-sensitive demographic which is well-served by Cebu Pacific 's low-cost model . It should probably also be noted that , while 436 passengers on an A330 is unique to Cebu Pacific , high-density economy-only configurations in general are n't . Lots of regional-service low-cost carriers offer high-density economy-only fleets , even in less cost-sensitive areas like Europe , Canada , and the U.S. . In Cebu Pacific 's own region , <URL> and <URL> also operate similar high-density , economy-only fleets targeting the same demographic ( though , admittedly , <URL> , but these are on longer routes than Cebu Pacific normally serves , e.g. Singapore-Australia . )
Disclaimer : this answer applies to airlines ( operating under 14 CFR 121 ) but does not encompass all of commercial aviation . The dispatcher that is working your flight plans the routing and determines the minimum fuel required from takeoff to destination to furthest alternate with additional fuel as required by regulation you operate under . On top of this , contingency fuel is added which can account for enroute diversions , cruising at a different altitude , un-forecast winds , holding , etc. . The total of this fuel is the " release fuel " and you can not takeoff below this number . On top of this , extra fuel will be added for taxi time . Ultimately , it is the captain 's responsibility to decide how much fuel is needed . For slight increases , airline policy may allow captain 's discretion to add fuel . For larger increases in the fuel order you generally need to call the dispatcher and amend the release -- after convincing the dispatcher you need the fuel . If you decide you need less fuel ( e.g. less contingency fuel ) you always need to amend the release so you can legally take off .
Unlike with driving , in aviation the major variable when planning fuel consumption is n't how far you 're traveling but how long you 're traveling : Distance traveled in aircraft is a derived value ( calculated from groundspeed and time - groundspeed also being a derived value affected by many factors including wind ) . A pilot may not readily know their groundspeed ( it can be quite different from airspeed ) , but at a given power setting they know an engine will burn a specific quantity of fuel per unit time , therefore fuel consumption is generally expressed that way ( in gallons per hour or pounds per hour ) , and if they know how long they 've been flying they can reliably estimate how much fuel they 've burned , how much is left in the tanks , and how much longer they can keep flying before running out of fuel . To illustrate why this is superior for flight planning consider the following ( extremely simplified ) flights fitting the following profile : <URL> A 200 nautical mile trip An airspeed of 100 knots A fuel burn of 10 gallons per hour A 25-gallon fuel tank . Scenario 1 : No Wind With no wind the flight will take two hours to complete . The groundspeed is 100 knots . The aircraft will burn 20 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 10 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with 5 gallons of fuel left in the tank - that corresponds to 30 minutes , which is the minimum legal reserve for day VFR flight per FAA regulations . Scenario 2 : 25 Knot Headwind With a 25 knot headwind the flight will take about 2:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 75 knots . The aircraft will burn 27 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 7.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we run out of fuel 2:30 into the flight . Running out of fuel is generally considered to be a Bad Thing : The passengers complain , and the FAA asks a lot of uncomfortable questions . Scenario 3 : 25 Knot Tailwind With a 25 knot tailwind the flight will take about 1:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 125 knots . The aircraft will burn 16 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 12.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with almost an hour of fuel still in the tank - a very comfortable reserve . On longer flights , and in slower aircraft , the effects of wind can be extremely pronounced , and a 5 or 10 knot difference from the forecast winds can mean the difference between arriving at your destination or having to add a fuel stop .
The free turbine shaft can be called $ N_2 $ , but $ N_f $ is more common . Your fuel control for a turboshaft is not so simple . It requires a Fuel Control Unit and an engine control that needs to know how much torque is being produced at the $ N_f $ . A <URL> [ acts ] as an intermediary between the operator 's controls and the fuel valve . The operator has a power lever which only controls the engine 's potential , not the actual fuel flow . The fuel control unit acts as a computer to determine the amount of fuel flow needed to deliver the power requested by the operator . and [ A ] turboprop or turboshaft engine control system has an additional job to do that is not shared by its turbojet and turbofan counterparts . It must control the speed of the propeller or the free turbine , and it usually governs the pitch angle of the propeller blades . ( <URL> ) If you are not bypassing the FCU and other engine control systems , you do need a varying load to have control over the fuel flow ( indirectly ) . Running an unloaded turboshaft at high power is very dangerous , as the free turbine will be rotating at RPM 's way above its design limits . Unloaded free turbines may also cause an auto shutdown . <URL> By Emoscopes ( Own work : drawn using XaraXtreme ) [ <URL> , <URL> or <URL> ] , <URL> <URL> are now commonly fitted with a device to shut off the fuel supply at the HP cock if torque in the turbine output shaft suddenly falls to zero . A drawback to the simple free turbine turboprop is its behaviour if the load suddenly falls to zero . In such a case , the unconstrained free turbine overspeeds and will be destroyed by centrifugal forces . In other words , you do need a load of varying degrees , you can not test an unloaded fully assembled free turbine engine . As for efficiency , efficiency is a measure of <URL> , so a load is needed to get that measurement .
<URL> 07-NOV-1971 Sikorsky CH-124A Sea King ( S-61B ) Suffered single engine failure on take-off . Pilot attempted to return while also dumping fuel . From what I 've read , fuel-dump systems are more common on military helicopters . Sometimes , a helicopter may not have enough power to hover in ground effect for a normal landing or take-off because of loss of an engine , high density altitude , or being overweight . The alternative procedure is to perform a <URL> , which is an advanced , but not an emergency , maneuver . But if the copter is landing in a confined area , such as a small pad on a frigate in a stormy ocean , there 's no room for a running landing , so its better to dump fuel to allow the copter to hover into a landing .
Modern military fuel tanks use the same basic technology to seal the tank after a puncture as WW2 aircraft did , which is the use of a laminated rubber-textile material , which tends to retain its form after being torn . The main difference between modern tank liners and WW2 liners is that the modern liners use more sophisticated materials so they can achieve the same benefit using a much thinner liner ( hence less weight ) . Bullets hitting a tank do not cause " detonation " unless they generate a spark and the fuel-air mixture in the tank is in ignition range . Also , most aircraft explosions are not detonations , they are <URL> . The liner does nothing to prevent this . The main functions of the liner are to prevent fuel from leaking out of a punctured tank and to maintain the integrity of the tank in a low-altitude mishap or crash . The main test for a liner is the " drop test " in which the liner is filled with fuel and dropped from a height of about 50 feet . The advantage of pressurizing a tank with air ( inerting ) is that it increases the critical temperature of an explosive mixture . If the critical temperature of the mixture is above the ambient temperature , then the tank will not explode spontaneously when sparked . A modern variation on this is called " nitrogen inerting " . The idea with that is to pressurize the tank with nitrogen . This makes the tank spark proof . Note that inerting technologies do not prevent a fuel tank from blowing up if an aircraft is hit with ordnance . The reason for this is that typically the way an aircraft blows up is that damage from the ordnance starts a fire . The fire then rapidly evolves fuel-laden gases into open compartments of the aircraft . As soon as these gases reach the ignition mixture , the fire deflagarates the mixture , causing an explosion . Inerting does little to prevent this . Inerting is very useful , however , because it can prevent a plane blowing up due to lightning or problems with electrical wiring or static electicity buildup .
I do n't know for certain as I 'm not military , but I imagine that they pressurize the fuel tanks using bleed air , much like jet airliners do . It 's also likely that they make use of boost and ejector pumps to provide positive pressure directly to more centrally-located tanks which the engines then feed from . ( from <URL> [ pdf ] ) The F-15 has both wing &amp; fuselage tanks ; <URL> : The left and right engine feed tanks contain baffles in order to provide a limited amount of fuel to the boost pumps during inverted flight or during negative G maneuvers Left wing tank Auxiliary tank Left engine feed tank Right wing tank Right engine feed tank Tank 1 ( main tank ) <URL> that limit the speed at which fuel can flow from one end to another , usually to prevent fuel sloshing and screwing up balance .
This depends on the aircraft . In many cases there is a tank inside the wing . In some cases it can be stored in a soft bladder in the wing and in other cases the wing its self is the tank . Here is an in wing tank <URL> Here are some in wing fuel bladders . <URL> Mooney was known for having integrated fuel tanks in their wing designs . <URL> of the tanks being resealed . They are notorious for needing a reseal every now and again but they do save in weight . Modern composite structures often do n't lend to this design as jet fuel or avgas and composites do n't really mix . <URL> Here is a nice cutaway of the A330 to show where the tanks are . <URL> It should be noted that you can generally pump fuel between the tanks however care must be taken when this is done because it can greatly effect the CG . <URL> has some really interesting information on how complex it was to manage the fuel weight on the Concorde and how it needed to be pumped around the tanks during various phases of the flight just to keep the plane stable .
The 737-900ER has ( two ) axillary fuel tanks in the aft cargo compartment , behind the wing ( and center of gravity ) with ~ 3400l capacity for increasing range ( from 2800nm to 3,200 nm ) . In usual conditions , unloading of passengers would n't be a problem as the fuel would 've been used up ; However , as this was an overweight landing with full fuel tanks ( the auxiliary fuel tanks weigh ~ 3t ) , the crew are just being cautious to prevent any incidents .
This depends where in the world you are , over civilian US territory military planes chose to operate under the FAA FAR 's ( although they are not explicitly legally required to ) , as such its pretty cut and dry <URL> No pilot in command of a civil aircraft may allow any object to be dropped from that aircraft in flight that creates a hazard to persons or property . However , this section does not prohibit the dropping of any object if reasonable precautions are taken to avoid injury or damage to persons or property . Elsewhere in the world the rules may vary . There may also be rules about dropping tanks over open water due to their being residual fuel in the tanks . <URL> <URL> would indicate that they are actually not dropped all that often .
Fuel bias is as you described it . As the engine ages , it burns more fuel than a brand new one . The fuel flow ( and drag ) corrections are entered into the FMS . This would allow the FMS calculated quantity not to disagree with the tanks totalizer . The figures are based off previous flights and engine tests . Maintenance personnel can refine the database by entering correction factors for drag and fuel flow . ( 737 manual ) also There are also " biases " to consider , depending on the make and model of aircraft . For example with Gulfstream aircraft , our flight planning experts typically add a 16 % bias for flights of less than three hours . However , biases depend on the age of the aircraft , how the operator flies it , planned flight level , and speed . So , it 's best practice for operators to compare actual fuel burns with flight plan burns to confirm accuracy . ( <URL> ) Boeing does not call it bias when I checked the 787/737 manuals , but ' bias ' is likely a flight planning software term . <URL> ( <URL> ) From a flight planner for a flight sim . <URL> ( <URL> ) Random real flight plan . Note : company software differs . <URL> Boeing 787 FMS interface where the drag and fuel flow corrections are entered .
Fuel dumping was regulated by FAA <URL> , which was canceled in 2006 . FAA <URL> regarding fuel dumping : ... If the need arises , aircraft are instructed by Air Traffic Control to dump fuel at high altitudes as far away from the airport or any populated areas as possible . At present , there are no hard and fast rules ( at-least in US , for other countries , see below ) regarding fuel dumping and it is left to the air-traffic controllers to guide the aircraft . The main criteria in determining an are for fuel dumping are : - Altitude In general , fuel jettisoned above 5000 ft will vaporize before reaching the ground . Due to this , <URL> recommend fuel dumping above 5000 ft. In general , the ATC will guide the aircraft to an altitude where it can dump fuel so that it vaporises before reaching the ground . - Atmospheric conditions The evaporative characteristics of the fuel dumped depends on the altitude and the atmospheric temperature . The aircraft fuel tends to vaporise faster in a warm day . - Aircraft separation The ATC will try to keep a minimum lateral separation ( ~ 5 miles ) between the aircraft dumping fuel and other aircraft and also some vertical separation ( ~ 2000 ft , according to Order 7110.65 P ) . Except in case of safety emergency , the fuel dumping is carried out at high altitudes . Note : Some countries do have fuel dumping regulations , like <URL> , which says , The choice of the dumping area is determined by the urgency of the incident , the actual flight path , meteorological conditions and the general air traffic situation . The aircraft is led to a selected area by the air traffic control to dump fuel . At the minimum speed of 250 knots at an altitude of 6,000 ft , but usually with 350 knots at 14,000-16 ,000 ft fuel is dumped ... There exist no predefined dumping areas ...
Your question is based on an incomplete picture of how aircraft work , I 'm afraid . As a passenger on any major airline , the only lead you are likely to encounter is in the shielding on the security x-ray machines . Fact : leaded fuel is relatively uncommon First , tetraethyl lead is only present in what we call avgas - it is most often sold these days as 100LL ( 100-octane low-lead ) aviation gasoline . Avgas is only used in piston ( reciprocating piston ) engines . Very few commercial aircraft in this day and age are powered by piston engines ; most airliners are turbine-powered ( jet or turboprop engines ) and are fueled by Jet A , a variation on kerosene . Fact : exhaust should n't be in the cabin anyway Second , even if you happen to be flying in a light aircraft with a piston engine ( or old , think Douglas DC-3 in Alaska ) , you should n't actually encounter any lead . The cabin air intakes are positioned intentionally to avoid any exhaust entering the cabin . If exhaust carrying lead particles was reaching the cabin , you 've probably got bigger and more immediate problems with carbon monoxide poisoning anyway .
They are flaps or doors on the engine cowling that open up in order to provide increased cooling airflow for the engine . <URL> when open . They are generally controlled by a handle in the cockpit ( some aircraft have electric cowl flaps with an open/close switch ) . <URL> The disadvantage is that the open flaps also increase drag . So on airplanes equipped with cowl flaps , they are generally opened for low-speed , high-power situations such as takeoff . This is the harshest operational regime for the engine since it is at its highest power and relatively low cooling airflow due to low airspeed . They are then closed either reaching cruise or reaching a point where the airplane can transition to a lower-power , higher-speed climb profile . They 're not specific to radial engines , but do tend to be more common in older aircraft ( there are exceptions though ) . Newer airplane and engine designs are more likely to have sufficient inherent cooling airflow to not require cowl flaps . The photo above comes from AVweb , which also has a <URL> .
Much like water , exposing fuel to below freezing temperatures does not instantly make it freeze . It takes some amount of time , and as long as the fuel is not exposed to below freezing temperatures long enough to make it freeze , it wo n't be a problem . How much time ? That depends on a number of factors like : Type of fuel Jet A ( common in the US ) has a freezing point of -40 C Jet A1 ( common outside the US ) has a freezing point of -47 C Jet B ( common for some military aircraft and very cold airports ) has a freezing point of -60 C Initial fuel temperature If you fuel in the middle east during the middle of summer , the fuel will be a lot warmer than when you fuel in Siberia in the middle of winter . Warmer fuel will take longer to freeze . Outside air temperature Much like trying to freeze water to form an ice cube , the colder the air around it , the faster that it will freeze . Aircraft speed The faster that the airplane goes , the more friction there is as the air flows over the wing . This heats up the air close to the wing and makes it take longer for the fuel to freeze ( see previous point ) . The temperature at the wing is known as TAT : For example , at an actual temperature of -56.5 C ( SAT ) and Mach 0.72 the TAT is -34 C , but at Mach 0.80 the TAT is -29 C. For more information about SAT - vs - TAT , see my answer about <URL> . Quantity of fuel Much like a small pond will freeze before a large lake , in order to get fuel to freeze you need to lower the temperature of all of it . The more that there is , the longer it will take . Aircraft design Some aircraft run hydraulic lines close to the fuel so that the heat will help slow down the freezing . Some aircraft constantly pump fuel to keep it moving and mixing if it tends to freeze in one part of the tank before the rest Some aircraft use fuel to cool the engine oil using a heat exchanger , and return the warmed fuel to the tanks Many other design factors In general , fuel will not freeze in the typical amount of time that an aircraft is aloft . If particular routes pose a problem , there are several options that the operator and pilot have : Use a fuel with a lower freezing point Fly at a lower altitude where it is not as cold Choose a route with warmer temperatures Increase the speed of the airplane Carry extra fuel Transfer fuel in a way to keep fuel warmer . Typically this is done by transferring fuel from the relatively warm fuselage tanks to the wing tanks which are exposed to more of the cold air .
The engine does n't care how heavy the airplane is ( or how well it is flying ) , but you might . As long as you are cruising around at a particular altitude and power setting , then the engine is going to consume fuel at the same rate . A heavier airplane will require increased lift , which will induce greater drag , and will have a lower forward airspeed as a result of that same power ( assuming it is not so heavy that it prevents you from maintaining altitude ) . If on the other hand you have a particular airspeed you want to maintain , then the power needed for that speed will depend on weight . Lower weight , less power necessary , less fuel flow required to supply the power .
Aircraft need to know their altitudes to avoid bumping into each other in the vertical dimension . The default instrument for this is a pressure altimeter . A pressure altimeter needs access to a static port . RVSM stands for Reduced Vertical Separation Minima . Basically , aircraft above a certain altitude ( 29,000 ft ) used to be kept further apart from each other vertically ( 2000 ft ) since the accuracy of the pressure altimeters degrades with altitude . Over the years , as traffic density increased there was a need to pack aircraft closer vertically ( 1000 ft ) . This is possible if you have a special more accurate altimeter system in all aircraft and these ops are RVSM ( late 1990 's and early 2000 's ) . Now , in order to guarantee that this system works as designed several points need to be satisfied one of which is the integrity of that static port I mentioned earlier . Static ports can be sensitive to external air flow and hence any variation / disturbance / abnormality in the area immediately adjacent to them on the fuselage must be avoided whenever you want to use the aircraft for RVSM operations . And hence the markings to serve as a guide to all involved in aircraft ops about which is the area to worry about . e.g. Any imperfection in that region will have to be dealt with immediately . And worst case the aircraft would not be capable of flying in RVSM operations till any problems are fixed .
end question
start question
What is the maximum fuel amount that fits into the rare Boeing 737-700ER version ?
According to the Payload/range diagrams from the <URL> ( page 95 ) , the fuel capacity is 32 539 kg ( 71 737 lb ) <URL>
<URL> says 38 knots for the 777 . <URL> says 25 knots for the 777 autoland system . <URL> says for the : 737-200 , crosswind limit is 31 knots ; for the 737-300 thru -500 , 35 knots ; for the 737-600 thru -900 , 36 knots ; and for the 737-600 thru -900 with winglets , 33 knots .
Other people have complained about this too . Boeing should rename the type to the " Whineliner " . The noise is caused by a hydraulic pump which is situated directly below the cabin . It mostly runs on takeoff and landing , but it can also run automatically at other times . Dogs have been reported to need psychiatric treatment after being transported on a 787 .
The following includes the changes you allude to ( which were proposed in <URL> on June 30 , 2011 ) . Commercial Flights Per ICAO Annex 6 , Part I , section 4.3.6 " Fuel Requirements , " airplanes should calculate their required fuel quantity as follows ( summary ; see below for actual ICAO text ) : Taxi fuel Trip fuel ( to reach intended destination ) Contingency fuel ( higher of 5 % of " trip fuel " or 5 minutes of holding flight ) Destination alternate fuel ( to fly a missed and reach an alternate ) Final reserve fuel ( 45 minutes of holding flight for reciprocating engines , 30 minutes for jets ) Additional fuel ( if needed to guarantee ability to reach an alternate with an engine failure or at lower altitude due to a pressurization loss ) Discretionary fuel ( if the pilot in command wants it ) General Aviation For general aviation , ICAO Annex 6 Part II , section 2.2.3.6 " Fuel and oil supply " requires : For IFR , enough fuel to reach destination , then alternate ( if required ) , plus 45 minutes For day VFR , enough fuel to reach destination plus 30 minutes For night VFR , enough fuel to reach destination plus 45 minutes ICAO Annex 6 Part I From the <URL> : 4.3.6.3 The pre-flight calculation of usable fuel required shall include : a ) taxi fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel expected to be consumed before take-off ; b ) trip fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel required to enable the aeroplane to fly from take-off , or the point of in-flight re-planning , until landing at the destination aerodrome taking into account the operating conditions of 4.3.6.2 b ) ; c ) contingency fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel required to compensate for unforeseen factors . It shall be five per cent of the planned trip fuel or of the fuel required from the point of in-flight re-planning based on the consumption rate used to plan the trip fuel but , in any case , shall not be lower than the amount required to fly for five minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 500 ft ) above the destination aerodrome in standard conditions ; Note . -- Unforeseen factors are those which could have an influence on the fuel consumption to the destination aerodrome , such as deviations of an individual aeroplane from the expected fuel consumption data , deviations from forecast meteorological conditions , extended taxi times before take-off , and deviations from planned routings and/or cruising levels . d ) destination alternate fuel , which shall be : where a destination alternate aerodrome is required , the amount of fuel required to enable the aeroplane to : i ) perform a missed approach at the destination aerodrome ; ii ) climb to the expected cruising altitude ; iii ) fly the expected routing ; iv ) descend to the point where the expected approach is initiated ; and v ) conduct the approach and landing at the destination alternate aerodrome ; or where two destination alternate aerodromes are required , the amount of fuel , as calculated in 4.3.6.3 d ) 1 ) , required to enable the aeroplane to proceed to the destination alternate aerodrome which requires the greater amount of alternate fuel ; or where a flight is operated without a destination alternate aerodrome , the amount of fuel required to enable the aeroplane to fly for 15 minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 500 ft ) above destination aerodrome elevation in standard conditions ; or where the aerodrome of intended landing is an isolated aerodrome : i ) for a reciprocating engine aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for 45 minutes plus 15 per cent of the flight time planned to be spent at cruising level , including final reserve fuel , or two hours , whichever is less ; or ii ) for a turbine-engined aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for two hours at normal cruise consumption above the destination aerodrome , including final reserve fuel ; e ) final reserve fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel calculated using the estimated mass on arrival at the destination alternate aerodrome , or the destination aerodrome when no destination alternate aerodrome is required : for a reciprocating engine aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for 45 minutes , under speed and altitude conditions specified by the State of the Operator ; or for a turbine-engined aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for 30 minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 500 ft ) above aerodrome elevation in standard conditions ; f ) additional fuel , which shall be the supplementary amount of fuel required if the minimum fuel calculated in accordance with 4.3.6.3 b ) , c ) , d ) and e ) is not sufficient to : allow the aeroplane to descend as necessary and proceed to an alternate aerodrome in the event of engine failure or loss of pressurization , whichever requires the greater amount of fuel based on the assumption that such a failure occurs at the most critical point along the route ; i ) fly for 15 minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 50
OK , I sat on my hands for a while , so now I 'll stick my head in the lion 's mouth . You should absolutely sump your tanks every time you go flying as part of a routine preflight inspection , whether you 've taken on fuel or not , whether the aircraft has been hangared or out on the ramp , and even if it 's below freezing . Water is n't the only thing you 're looking for ( misfueling happens - also bits of fuel tank sealant , rubber from a rotting bladder , dirt that made it past the fueling truck 's filters , etc. - you want to find these things ! ) Ideally if it 's below freezing you should also pre-heat your aircraft so the <URL> , instruments , and fuel are above freezing when you 're preflighting ( which is generally accomplished by sticking the plane in a heated hangar ) , but sometimes that 's not an option and you make do . Why should you sump the tanks if it 's below freezing ? Well like I said above , water is n't the only thing we 're looking for - and all those concerns still hold valid no matter what the temperature is . Water is the one that people seem to come up with as a reason for not sumping when it 's below freezing though , so let 's talk about water : There are five general ways water can manifest itself in your ( Avgas ) fuel system : Liquid Water If it 's not been below freezing ( or it 's really sunny and your fuel tanks have acted like an oven ) water may be liquid , waiting for you at the sump drain just like on a warm summer day . You 'll drain it out and go on about your business . Slush ( ice crystals suspended in the fuel ) If it 's below freezing you may have suspended ice crystals or slush in the fuel ( particularly if you just took on fuel ) . This will look " cloudy " when you drain it from the sump and it 's a good indication that today is not a good day to fly : you may have a LOT of water in the fuel , and you need to need to deal with it ( warm the plane up and drain off the water , and figure out how so much of it got in there in the first place ) . ( There is a chance that slush could jam your fuel drain open , in which case your fuel tank will empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . ) Little bits of ice Little drops of water can freeze into little bits of ice , which are often just too big to come out of the fuel sump drain , but just small enough to lodge in it and keep it from closing ( which , again , will cause your tank to empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . This is also an indication that today is not a good day to fly ) . BIG bits of ice over the sump drain Liquid water will flow to the lowest point in the fuel system ( the drains ) . If it 's below freezing it will freeze there , potentially blocking the sump drain . You 'll notice this condition because the sump valve may feel stiff , your tank may not drain , or it will drain very slowly , possibly with water in the fuel . This is a good indication that you should n't fly until you figure out what the cause of the problem is ( it could be ice , it could be a defective valve , or it could be a bunch of other things , but until you know you want to stay on the ground ) . Hidden Ice ( big bits of ice away from the sump drain ) This is perhaps the most insidious : Ice that 's not near the sump , and does n't block or jam anything . Hopefully you 'll spot this sitting at the bottom of your tank when you look in to check the fuel level ( you do visually check your fuel level , right ? ) , but you probably wo n't notice anything out of the ordinary when you sump the tank . ( There are of course other ways water can hide out in the system besides the fuel tanks , but these are where you 're most likely to find it . ) The most likely " bad thing " to happen to you in any of those scenarios is that your fuel sump will be jammed open by ice . This means you 'll spill a tank 's worth of avgas on the ground , and you 'll have to call your airport 's spill cleanup/emergency number and let them know . That emergency is on the ground , and it may be a little embarrassing to have to explain to the spill cleanup folks , but it 's better than the other possibilities . The Bad Things that can happen to you in the air if you go flying with undetected ice/water in the fuel are far worse : The ice could melt and your engine could start trying to burn water , which does n't ignite very well . <URL> for one example of how things can go catastrophically wrong if you neglect to sump your tanks ( or ignore the warning signs when you do ) .
You can , but you have to live with the consequences . There are several things that can happen : Depending on the vertical gusts ahead , you might not even get close to v $ _ { NE } $ . There is another speed limit for gusty weather called <URL> , and exceeding this will run the risk of overstressing the wing structure . Going above v $ _ B$ will <URL> of more than 50 ft/s , and more than 25 ft/s when flying above v $ _ D$ . The exact values can be found in the <URL> of the flight manual . On a calm day , you can fly v $ _ { NE } $ and even a little faster , but once you fly fast enough , flutter will become very likely . Note that <URL> , so you might fly well into the flutter speed range before flutter occurs . When it does , control surfaces will be ripped from their fittings which will make the aircraft pitch up . At that point the wings will break off . The engine on a C 172 is not powerful enough to sustain level flight at v $ _ { NE } $ . You need to dive the aircraft , which requires some altitude . Maintaining the speed will mean that you dive into the ground , so you need to pull out of the dive in time . On really fast aircraft the pitch trim will get more nose-heavy when the aircraft approaches the speed of sound . You do n't run that risk in a C 172 , but faster aircraft found themselves <URL> .
Excerpt from <URL> Early in the preliminary design effort , Boeing had taken a careful look at the in service performance and accident history of previous airplane designs . The conclusions were interesting : In flight troubleshooting sometimes led to more serious problems , occasionally jeopardizing the safety of the flight . The flight engineer 's intense focus on systems problems often distracted one or both of the pilots , sometimes resulting in no one " flying the airplane . " Jet engine reliability was much higher than piston engines and they required little or no in flight troubleshooting or adjustment . Certain high workload periods during departure and arrival left little time for outside watch nor much time for handling abnormal events . In support of industry work to establish rational external vision requirements for transport airplanes , Boeing developed a computer model that determined the relative collision threat value of the visual space around the aircraft . Because airplanes are in motion and at a positive angle of attack , the computer model showed that the collision threat is concentrated generally forward and below the longitudinal axis of the airplane . In response to these findings the design team took a different approach to the 737 flight deck : A concerted effort would be made to simplify systems designs to increase reliability and to eliminate or greatly reduce the need for in flight trouble shooting . A Flight Deck design group would participate in all flight deck design decisions and would have considerable authority in the design of controls , indicators , and operating concepts across all airplane systems . Workload assessment would be used as an integral element of design to adjust functionality and location of equipment and controls . Operating procedures would be simplified and shortened to reduce distractions and provide ample time for outside watch . The autopilot would be improved to better support operations in the terminal area not just in cruise . The pilot 's stations would be designed to maximize external vision in the primary collision threat zone . So it seems that a lot of the changes that facilitated the movement to a 2-crew flight deck were procedural ones rather than engineering challenges . Jet engines by that time did n't require constant attention and adjustments . It seems that this movement towards a reduced cockpit count was the result of " too many cooks in the kitchen " , and while not explicitly mentioned it seems like <URL> was a driving factor ( Edit : or at least they wanted to prevent something like that , turns out EA401 did n't happen until 1972 when the 737 was introduced in 1968 ) . I 'm guessing though that this wo n't completely answer what you are looking for , I 'm sure you 'd want to see the specific input that the " Flight Deck Design Group " offered for the placement of controls and indicators . I guess one way of figuring this out would be to compare the cockpit layout of the 727 and 737 , as far as I can find , those design decisions are n't published .
It depends on the engine . A piston engine will use avgas ( aviation gasoline ) or diesel ( or Jet-A for availability reasons ) depending on whether the engine is a diesel engine ( which can burn jet fuel ) , while a turbine engine will use jet fuel . Essentially whatever the engine is rated to burn . The fuel tank is somewhere in the fuselage near the center of the rotor . This to avoid the center of gravity shifting with the fuel level .
In many cases , there are controllers dedicated to providing ATC services to the aircraft that are USING the SUA . Callsigns such as " Nellis Range " or " Eglin Mission " are used for the controllers working with aircraft within the SUA , be it MOA or Restricted or Warning areas or whatever . What looks like one big chunk of airspace on the chart may likely be divided into separate areas for training or testing purposes that the aircraft flying into it will know about , and it 's useful ( sometimes , vital ) to have a controller monitoring the various missions and keeping the various aircraft apart . These controllers may work in a dedicated facility that only deals with military aircraft , or they may work within a larger facility that includes " regular " ATC functions as well . For instance , the controllers who work the off-shore warning areas south of Eglin AFB as well as the on-shore restricted areas east and west of Eglin are physically located in the same RAPCON that is Eglin approach . So civilian aircraft inbound to Crestview or Destin or Eglin/Ft Walton Beach are talking to controllers working one set of scopes , but across the room are the controllers for Eglin Mission who are watching the various SUA . An aircraft that departs Eglin ( or Hurlburt , or Duke Field ) would probably be talking to one of the former initially , then when they head into one of the restricted or warning areas , they 'd be handed off from " Eglin Approach " to " Eglin Mission . " Essentially it 's like being handed off from one Approach sector to another , just that the Mission controllers have slightly different roles in keeping the airspace safe . It 's far better to clear an aircraft transiting a particular sector of SUA to fly through it ABOVE the aircraft in it that is employing air-to-ground ordinance , for instance , than clearing him through the airspace BELOW the bomb-dropper ! Or , if necessary -- maybe it 's a helo with an emergency that needs a straight line return to base and is n't going to climb up very high -- at least you have the bomb-dropper go cold and hold up high until the transiting aircraft is out of the way ! That 's the sort of ATC that Eglin Mission does that Eglin Approach does n't ... along with confirming that this callsign is in fact scheduled for this range at this time , and the last aircraft has departed , so " you 're cleared in to Range XYZ to work surface to 15,000 ' , advise 5 minutes prior to departing . " Fun times !
There is no fix maximum a controller is allowed to have under control , as <URL> already pointed out . The airspace under control of ATC is divided up into sectors containing the airways to and from airports within that sector or in upper sectors , airways just for en-route traffic . ( see also : <URL> ) . Sectors can be merged during off-peak hours , split back into separate sectors during peak hours and in the case of TMA or approach sectors , the controller owning the sector can receive additional help by splitting the approach sector further and using different controllers for different tasks within that sector : Feeder/Pickup - Director - Departure Controller . The thresholds of when a sector is split is dependent on many factors , like weather , runway in use , outside influences like adjacent sectors having more traffic that usual , special occurances within that sector like parachute jumper drops . Sectors also vary in size and capacity based on their intended use . While TMA/Approach sectors are rather small and need to accomodate arriving traffic into an airfield , an enroute or upper sector can be significantly larger in size , lateral and vertical . Again , this is individual to each sector , because some factors which hold true for TMA sectors do not apply to enroute upper sectors and vice versa . It also really depends on the controller working the sector and his personal limits , favorite procedures and work practice . A few examples : A TMA controller using vectors to the approach instead of standard arrival routes or transitions will have more workload to monitor and sequence aircraft . The minimum radar separation in TMA sectors and upper sectors can be either 3NM or 5NM . While upper sectors are larger in size , they have to maintain a greater separation , so in some cases , an upper sector twice or multiple times the size of a TMA sector will only be able to accomodate the same number of aircraft ( ceteris paribus ) before reaching saturation . A controller having to work with special situations such as aircraft in distress or student pilots requiring more attention than experienced pilots , will reduce the controllers personal capacity . In summary , to answer your question : There is a situation and controller based threshold , at which saturation will be reached . Controllers are trained to anticipate this threshold and make their supervisor aware of the situation beforehand , so that measures can be taken . There is however no fixed numerical maximum , unless specified in the ARTCC/ACC 's operating procedures .
There are of course a lot of tiny changes that Boeing would have done to the aircraft that most of us would n't notice , but for brevity I 've just included the major changes between the 737NG series and the upcoming 737MAX . The CFM LEAP-1B engine replaces the current CFM56 engines . Some of the significant improvements in fuel efficiency ( 15 % savings minus drag from larger engine touted by CFM ) come from a much higher bypass ratio ( from 5.3:1 to approximately 9:1 ) and materials that can tolerate higher temperatures . Chevrons ( saw-toothed tips at the end of the nacelle ) have also been included to reduce engine noise on takeoff . The engine change required changes to the nose landing gear to allow enough clearance from the ground , extending the nose gear by about 8 inches ( 20cm ) and modifying the nose gear bay to allow it to fit into the existing space . The AT ( Advanced Technology ) winglets replace the 737NG 's blended winglets . The AT winglet incorporates two portions , done to reduce the weight required ( compared to a larger blended wingtip ) while still reducing block fuel burn by about 1.5 % . Fly-by-wire spoiler system reduces the need for long cabling between the cockpit and the spoiler hydraulic actuators , saving weight , reducing stopping distance by quicker actuation and increasing the accuracy of the controls . Redesigned tailcone and modifications to elevator to improve aerodynamics , removing the requirement for vortex generators ( VGs ) , which improves predictability and control by making the air turbulent , but as a result increasing drag .
A " Safety Alert for Operators " ( SAFO 09004 ) from 2/11/09 says " Slow the aircraft to a fast walking speed on the centerline of the landing runway prior to attempting to exit the runway . Taxi at a fast walking speed until parked at the ramp or until aligned with the centerline of the runway for takeoff . " Which , of course , is n't a regulation , in this example is specifically talking about winter conditions . Source : <URL> Riverside County in Southern California has an ordinance ( regulation ) that states : Section 12.08.100 Taxi speed . No person shall taxi any aircraft on the airport unless there will be no danger of collision with any person or object . All aircraft shall be taxied at a safe and reasonable speed commensurate with safe operation in relation to existing conditions and with due regard for other aircraft , persons and property . ( Ord . 5661 § 1 , 1988 ; prior code § 5.11 ( part ) ) Source : <URL> So whatever a " safe and reasonable speed " is . I 've heard it called a " brisk walking pace . " I had an airline pilot as a ground school instructor once , and she said that ground control was giving them a hassle one day , so everyone decided to taxi at a " brisk walking pace " around LAX . Got ground whipped into shape real quick ! The FAA 's website , under " Best Practices " says to " Maintain an appropriate taxi speed . " <URL> Since it 's not clearly defined by the FAA , I assume that most airlines limit taxi speeds via their SOPs , also due to the variety of equipment , it might be unfeasible for the FAA to mandate a specific speed . Roughly : Max 30 kts : straight line with no close obstacles ( for example : back-tracking on the runway ) Max 20 kts : straight line with obstacles ( for example : on the taxiway , or close to other aircraft/stands/ground vehicles ) Max 10 kts : turns and entry onto ramp area
AVTUR stands for AViation TURbine Fuel and is equivalent to JP-1 , at least in the UK and in as much as JP-1 no longer exists . I believe that the US military equivalent is JP8 which is Jet-A1 with additional additives , which differs from commercial Jet-A only by a lower freezing point . <URL> for Avtur with is the same defstan as for Jet-A1 . <URL> to an Exxon document gives a great deal of information for various aviation fuel oils . [ EDIT ] <URL> JP-8 is the military equivalent of Jet A-1 with the addition of corrosion inhibitor and anti-icing additives ; it meets the requirements of the U.S. Military Specification MIL-T-83188D . It is the dominant military jet fuel grade for NATO airforces . The UK also have a specification for this grade namely DEF STAN 91-87 AVTUR/FSII ( formerly DERD 2453 ) . NATO Code F-34 .
The answer is : no , normal flights are not allowed under the canyon rim . If you look at the sectional chart , you see this notice : Searching through the CFR ( Title 14 , Part 91 ) brings up this <URL> - Special Flight Rules in the Vicinity of the Grand Canyon National Park , AZ. . Ther is also <URL> of Part 93 . The Subpart U regulations seem to be the most current applicable regulations ( please correct me if I am wrong ) . The rule applies to everything under 18,000 feet MSL within an area around the park ( like the chart says ) . Except in an emergency or if otherwise necessary for safety of flight , or unless otherwise authorized by the Flight Standards District Office for a purpose listed in 93.309 , no person may operate an aircraft in the Special Flight Rules Area within the following flight-free zones : It then describes the four zones : Desert View , Bright Angel , Toroweap/Shinumo , Sanup Flight-free Zone . You ca n't fly through these , but between them are " corridors " in which you are allowed to fly above a certain altitude . See <URL> for locations of the Flight-Free Zones and corridors . There are also minimum sector altitudes for different areas , including the corridors , which are going to be the main thing preventing you from flying very low . The altitudes are different for commercial air tours versus transient and general aviation . Also : no person may operate an aircraft within 500 feet of any terrain or structure located between the north and south rims of the Grand Canyon . There are also noise limits depending on the aircraft type . For some info on the background of these rules , see this <URL> .
Could somebody explain a little bit why they need 2 separate GPS and 2 separate IRS ? So that if one fails , the other can still be used to complete the flight . Airbus even have 3 . What is meant by " alignment " ? Initialization of the system and solving the " heading problem " through a magnetometer . But this is a different question .
What that probably means is that the pilot is reporting that they have <URL> information kilo . Automatic Terminal Information Service ( ATIS ) is a radio broadcast on a specific frequency ( often a local navaid like a VOR ) which a pilot dials up to get weather and airport information before joining one of the airfield 's frequencies . Each time the information is updated in a day the next letter of the alphabet is used ; " information Kilo " means the information has been updated 11 times that day . If the tower had to relay weather , runway in use and other instructions to everyone pilot who joined the frequency it would take loads of their time ; ATIS is instead there so controllers can spend their time controlling . When a pilot introduces his/herself on frequency at an airfield they announce the latest ATIS they have so that the controller knows they have up to date information and they do n't need it relayed . From a phraseology standpoint just saying " with kilo " is okay . I usually say " with information kilo " because it makes sure that kilo is n't confused as being part of my callsign .
The 777-31H is a standard Boeing 777-300 manufactured for Emirates ( customer code 1H ) . The 777-31H ( ER ) is a Boeing 777-300ER ( Extended Range ) again for Emirates . Compared to the standard 777-300 , the 777-300ER has : A longer range due to the extra fuel it can carry ( 145538 kg compared to 135880 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Operating Empty Weight ( 167829 kg compared to 159570 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Maximum Take-Off Weight ( 351535 kg compared to 299370 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher maximum structural payload weight ( 69853 kg compared to 64960 kg for the -300 baseline ) A wider wingspan ( 64.80 compared to 60.93 m ) A different engine delivering more thrust The Boeing 777-300ER is always equipped with General Electric GE90-115BL1 engines , while the baseline -300 can be ordered with four different engine models from General Electric , Pratt &amp; Whitney or Rolls Royce . The Emirates Boeing 777-300 aircraft have the Rolls Royce RR Trent 892 engines installed . They deliver 415 kN of thrust , almost 100 kN less than the GE90-115BL1 engines .
This question ( sorry to say ) is sort of moot because : if you have an urgency to land ( e.g. cargo fire ) , you do n't care if you are overweight and you 'd land anyway if you have time to dump fuel , the situation is n't as desperate , and you can easily wait just a bit longer . The large jets ( e.g. Airbus A380 , Boeing 777 ) have a fuel dumping system because , with full fuel , these planes can travel up to 12 hours or more ! That is to say , if you do n't dump fuel , you might have to fly around all day to get down to your normal landing weight . Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 are different : they usually fly 1 ~ 3 hours route , and may stretch to 6 hours on a full tank . So , to begin with , you need less time to burn fuel . Plus , these ( relatively ) small planes can land on shorter runways , which means your airport choice will not be as restricted as with a large jet . Now , as to actually answering your question ... . Flaps and gears have speed restrictions . You can not fly full throttle with these deployed . That being said , if the pilots put the airplane in landing configuration ( full flaps + gear down ) , drag will increase significantly and they will need more thrust to maintain altitude and airspeed . You can technically achieve that with spoilers , but it 's dangerous . Spoilers destroy lift , so what you 're really doing is reducing the effectiveness of your wings and compensate that by flying faster and/or increasing your angle of attack . Then again , if you 're desperate , just land right away ... .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
The Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance ( SCAP ) interface is a standardised model for calculating aircraft performance of air transport category aircraft . The SCAP standard is <URL> and leading aircraft manufacturers . From the IATA website : One particularly complex requirement is the calculation of takeoff performance data . Most airlines use programs supplied by the airplane manufacturers for each airplane type , and interface these programs with their own computer operating environment , airfield database , and data output format requirements . In order to reduce the development effort for the airlines ( interfacing with different airplane manufacturers ' programs ) and manufacturers ( meeting individual airline requirements for customer-specific features ) there are clear advantages in standardizing as much as possible the input/output features of these programs , and also data formats . Having recognised this potential benefit , IATA , ATA and several manufacturers set up a Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance Task Force ( SCAP TF ) . A SCAP module is a FORTRAN program that implements the SCAP standard . It takes a set of well defined inputs to produce a well defined output . The advantage of this approach is that it is possible for a third party to design a software program that requires aircraft performance data without having access to this proprietary data . The software can then be used for aircraft performance calculations of any aircraft as long as it has access its SCAP modules . There are 6 SCAP specifications for Takeoff , Landing , Climbout , Inflight , Noise and APM ( Aircraft Performance Monitoring ) . I do n't have access to the official SCAP specification , but from what I can find online I gather that for take-off performance the following is required : TODA ( Take-Off Distance Available ) TORA ( Take-Off Run Available ) ASDA ( Accelerate Stop Distance Available ) runway elevation runway surface condition runway heading wind speed and direction ambient Temperature QNH MEL/CDL items affecting performance max take-off thrust and reduced ( FLX ) option anti-icing options flap settings V1/VR ( fixed or opt ) V2/VS ( fixed or opt ) minimum acceleration altitude actual take-off weight I gather the landing SCAP module needs : LDA ( Landing Distance Available ) runway surface condition runway elevation runway heading wind speed and direction ambient temperature MEL/CDL items affecting performance approach type ( CAT I/II/III ) anti-icing options presence of residual ice flap setting ( fixed or opt ) expected landing weight
end question
start question
Why are airplanes sometimes led by a vehicle ?
In addition to the reasons given by @Daniele , there are two others that I can think of : security and lack of visibility . At Amsterdam Schipol for a time at least in the 1990s there were two airlines , El Al and Tower that were escorted from the gate to the runway and from the runway to the gate because there was a concern about what we would now call terrorist activity . They used a follow-me car in front and , as I remember , a light armored vehicle ( wheeled , not tracked ) at each wing and a following vehicle . There are occasions , especially in 747s where the pilot eye level is high , that after landing in minimum conditions on a well lit runway ( think centerline lighting , etc. ) you turn off the runway only to find that you ca n't see the taxiway edges all that well . The solution is to call for a follow-me car . Once after landing on 22R at KJFK with the barest of minimums , we asked for a follow-me when we were concerned about being able to keep to the taxiway .
Simplicity . Yes , a servo tab is helpful , but most control surfaces should include a trim tab , so this can double as a servo tab . Total part count should still be lower than that for a stabilizer-elevator combination . But there are other advantages : Easier adjustment of stick forces and little loss of stability with free-floating controls . By hinging the stabilator ( or full-flying tail ) near the quarter point , its control forces can be kept small and tailored with the servo tab . Also , this helps to keep the hinge moment coefficient derivative over angle of attack $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ low . The ratio between it and the derivative over deflection angle $ \ eta $ determines the angle to which the control surface will float , and a small $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ means that the stability with a floating control surface will be close to the stability with a fixed surface . Also , balancing masses are easier to place when the full surface moves .
You 're correct that a headwind will reduce the takeoff roll ( takeoff distance ) . As far as takeoff speed , the airspeed will remain same , but the ground speed will be reduced . In the simplest sense , an aircraft rotates for takeoff when it generates enough lift ( leaving aside other considerations ) . This is dependent on the airspeed as the lift generated is propotional to the square of airspeed ( provided the other factors like wing area and lift coeffecient are kept constant ) at a density altitude . As a result , it is the airspeed , not the groundspeed that matters . If you have some headwind , the effective groundspeed is reduced by the same amount - resulting in reduced takeoff distance . The effect of the wind on landing distance is similar to the takeoff distance . You can see this in the following figure . <URL> Image from <URL> As it can be seen , the presence of winds can have a significant effect on the takeoff disantances required ( note that the airspeed remains the same in all cases ) . Due to this , the direction of prevailing winds can have a significant effect on determining the runway headings . From <URL> : The weather patterns of an area , especially the prevailing winds , are a major factor in determining runway headings . Prevailing winds are defined as the direction from which the winds blow most frequently . Remember that airplanes take off and land into the wind . Let 's say that at a given airport the prevailing winds blow in from the west 65 % of the year , while 30 % of the year the wind blows in from the east , and the remaining 5 % coming from the northwest . It would be best then to orient the runway W ( 27 ) and E ( 9 ) . That would mean that approximately 95 % of the year airplanes would be landing and taking off into the wind .
Based on <URL> , the answer is yes . g. Deactivation means to make a piece of equipment or an instrument unusable to the pilot/crew by preventing its operation Collaring the circuit breaker prevents it from being pushed in , and therefore prevents its operation .
is n't the cost directly proportional to speed ? No . Most fuel can be saved by flying higher because the lower air density reduces parasite drag . Provided the trip is long enough for the saving at altitude to offset the cost of getting there . Aircraft drag has two components . The parasite drag which increases with speed and the induced drag which decreases . So they have a point of minimum drag and for jet airliners it 's typically somewhere between 200 and 250 knots indicated . Flying any slower would increase the cost . At the altitude where jets normally fly , the true speed is significantly higher than indicated speed . For jet engines , the fuel burned is roughly proportional to thrust they generate and at higher thrust lower per unit of thrust . Since power is thrust times speed , this translate to much better efficiency at higher speed . So a jet wants to fly slightly faster than their lowest drag point . Even if the trip cost is higher , higher speed allows you to make more trips , so the fixed costs get split over more passengers . So it makes sense to fly slightly faster than the lowest fuel burn . Generally airliners are operated at the point of lowest cost . For long trips where it pays off to climb high , jets are most efficient . For short trips , turboprops are often used that ca n't climb that high , but are more efficient at lower altitudes and speeds .
The reason is both historical and operational . The first mass produced helicopter was the Sikorsky R-4 . It had a single collective located between the two pilot seats , so by necessity , the person on the right would control the cyclic with their right hand , and the person on the left would control the cyclic with their left ( because their right is needed on the collective ) . The cyclic in the R-4 was very difficult to manipulate and required a lot of strength and coordination . Since the vast majority of student helicopter pilots were right handed , they sat in the right seat , allowing them to use their dominant hand on the cyclic . Thus , the first generation of helicopter pilots all sat in the right seat , since they all learned on the R-4 ( or the R-6 ) . That 's how traditions begin . The operational applications of sitting in the right seat relate to the inherent instability of a helicopter . A helicopter pilot rarely wants to let go of the cyclic , as it often requires continuous control inputs , especially when hovering . The collective , on the other hand , does not need to be monitored as closely and can be held steady with a friction adjustment , so that hand is occasionally free to manipulate things like radios and other equipment , which are located in the center of the cockpit . Most helicopters these days have a collective for each seat , located on the left , so the pilot wants to use the hand in the middle of the cockpit to work the radios and things . Hence , they sit on the right side , which places the collective hand in the middle of the cockpit . You can read a longer article about this : <URL>
ATC has many tools " in their belt " to keep traffic separated . When things back up , it can get crowded . Emergencies and weather regularly cause disruptions and ATC handles them according to the circumstances . To illustrate some possibilities , I will use Seattle as an example here . You can find the airport information <URL> . Most aircraft coming into the area will be commercial flights on IFR flight plans , and they will follow a Standard Terminal Arrival ( STAR ) into Seattle . You can find this seciton towards the bottom of the AirNav page . There are different STARs depending on the direction from which the flight is arriving . Each STAR will include published holding patterns . Listed here is the direction of arrival , the name of the STAR , and the holding fixes : East - EPHRATA - FLAAK , EPHRATA , ODESS East - GLASR - LOSTT , TEMPL , JAKSN Southeast - CHINS - SUNED , BRUKK South - OLYMPIA - BTG , OLYMPIA Southwest - HAWKZ - BTG , HAWKZ Northwest - JAWBN - JAWBN Northwest - MARNR - MARNR As you can see , there are 11 different holding fixes across the seven STARs . If you have one aircraft from each direction , they can each hold at the fix according to their STAR . The busiest STARs have multiple holding fixes that may be used . Aircraft may also be stacked on the same hold at different altitudes . You can read some FAA information about holds <URL> . Aircraft may also choose to divert . Depending on how much fuel they have and how the weather/emergency is playing out , they may not want to hold indefinitely on the GLASR arrival at LOSTT . Generally ATC will not ask for a diversion unless absolutely necessary . Among others , Portland , Vancouver , and Spokane are all fairly close to where the aircraft may be holding and could be viable alternates .
It is the larger aircraft that came first . Historically , the runway length ( and design ) of an airport has depended on the aircraft operating there ( among other things ) , though this is changing . For example , the <URL> : The main runways -- RWY 04/22 and RWY 13/31 -- were continually lengthened during post WW II operations which kept them in line with the demands of the aviation industry until the mid 1960s ... The runway required for the aircraft depends on the take-off weight and the lesser runway length restricts the payload or range . As a result , for economical operation , the runway needs to be longer . However , there are other constraints to consider : For large aircraft , the runway ( and taxiway ) width , apron and parking space are important considerations . In most cases , lengthening the runway will be easier than taking care of these other constraints . In the end , airports have to weigh the benefits of letting heavier aircraft operate against the resources required for runway lengthening . For major airports ( like Heathrow , for example ) , the cost of runway expansion will run into the billions . Unless the aircraft is going to be operated regularly ( which depends on how many airports it can land ) , there is no point in lengthening the runway in an airport . The economic operation of the aircraft has to be considered . For example , the A380 was designed around a 80m ' box ' , which the airlines had decided is the maximum size they can operate economically . A bigger aircraft does not mean more runway required . For example , the A380 requires ( slightly ) lesser runway compared to 747-400 . If it comes to that , aircraft requiring more runway can takeoff from smaller ones . For example , a Boeing Dreamlifter once <URL> runway ( it normally requires > 9000ft ) . The airports with longest runways have them for different reasons - the Qamdo Bamda Airport ( 5500m runway ) has a long runway due to its elevation ( > 4300m above MSL ) , while the Ramenskoye Airport as a long runway ( 5400m ) due to the aircraft operated there ; it was a test facility , for among other things , the Soviet Buran spacecraft .
Your interpretation of the answer to that question is a bit wrong . It would be an error to claim that delta wings do n't perform well at low speed . Delta wings perform exceptionally well at low speeds . The correct interpretation is delta wings are not fuel efficient . And this is true at low and high speeds . There are advantages to delta wings at both high and low speeds . The following list are some of the known advantages : Improved handling at high Mach numbers due to swept leading edge ( note : this is the same advantage as swept wings but with the down side of being draggy when performing manoeuvres - swept wing planes retain much more kinetic energy after a turn ) . Intrinsically strong structurally ( it 's a triangle ! ) thus can be built much lighter . Retains quite a lot of rudder effectiveness at low speeds and high angles of attack ( this is unintuitive because you 'd think the wing would block airflow to the rudder but the strong vortex shedding on the leading edge maintains flow around the rudder ) . Have very wide CG range compared to conventional aircraft . This is especially useful in bombers . Have very benign and gentle stall behaviour . This is especially useful for paper airplanes since it can prolong flight at low speeds ( paper airplanes simply dip their noses and regain speed instead of simply diving and crashing ) . The major disadvantage is that it is draggy . Thus not fuel efficient . Thus in a business world where profit and cost matters delta wings are not attractive . For supersonic flights the drag is apparently roughly on par with swept wings . Except , as mentioned above , due to the geometry of the wing it can be built lighter thus save fuel - so it sort of cancels out . For toy planes , where efficiency is not of great concern ( fun and " cool " is more important ) delta wings are OK . Still , if you use the same sheet of paper and built a long , narrow , cambered wing like this : <URL> . . you 'll find that the long narrow winged plane flies much further than the delta wing paper airplane given the same launch speed .
AC is easier to produce with the engines , that act as generators . The engines have a rotating shaft that it is easily equipped with magnetic dipoles all around . Then , depending on the instrument , the current is either used directly or , by the use of converters , in DC form as not only it is easier to produce , it is also easier to convert . So electronic devices that uses 12 , 5 or 3V may contain their own voltage converter ( though this is less and less true with modern efficient switch-mode converters ) . If DC conversion was as much efficient as AC conversion , we would n't see high-voltage lines . Last but not least , it 's easier to switch , because the current is null twice per cycle . DC must be switched at full current , which is expensive and weight costly . ( thanks mins )
While ILS is precise enough to guide the aircraft precisely onto the runway , it is only so precise in the immediate vicinity of the runway . The instrument measures angular divergence from the runway axis . So while the one dot offset is just a few metres over threshold , it is much more at the point where the aircraft normally intercept the localizer , which is usually at least 10 miles out for large aircraft . At KSFO the runways are so close to each other that while the localizer could perhaps ensure separation in the final phase of landing , it ca n't ensure it in the earlier part .
For the complete electrical failure in the aircraft , the following systems have to fail : The onboard power generation system , usually a synchronous generator has to fail in all the engines . The APU ( Auxiliary Power Unit ) has to fail . The RAT ( Ram Air Turbine ) should fail to deploy . The batteries and static inverters should fail ( this wo n't help in controlling the aircraft , just added for sake of completeness ) . The probability of this happening is very very low , and can be discounted . It is more probable that some other system ( for e.g , hydraulics ) fail before this happening . So far , to the best of my knowledge , no complete power loss has been reported in any fly by wire aircraft . The reason the Airbus aircrafts are controllable in case of electrical failure is due to the fact that the fly-by-wire system has multiple redundancies that offer layered protection : Normal Law offers all the protections ( like stall , load factor etc ) . This is the system in operation during normal flights . Alternate Law offers limited protection including stability , load factor and stall protections Abnormal Alternate Law limits the load factors and offers yaw damping only Direct Law is the lowest level of fly-by-wire system and directly transmits the pilot inputs to control surfaces , while still giving stall and load factor warnings In case all these fail , the system reverts to mechanical backup , where pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer and lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . In case of mechanical backup , the system will operate as long as hydraulic power is available . In case of electrical failure , as long as hydraulics are OK , the pilot should be able to control the aircraft . However , usually , if there is no power , there is no hydraulic pressure ( except reservoir , maybe ) and the control is lost . In case of the <URL> , only hydraulics was lost and power was available . There are some more points to consider in case of total electrical failure . In case the control surfaces are moved by electric power ( like 787 ) , power loss means loss of control . Power loss implies that the engine thrust can not be controlled ( of course , the engines wo n't be operational in that case anyway ) . Some fly-by-wire aircrafts are unstable by design . In these cases , any power loss will lead to loss of control and crash . I 'm not sure there is any direct mechanical linkage in civil airliners . The amount of force required to operate such a system would be enormous . Bottom-line is , in case of complete power failure , the aircraft is as good as dead . One example is a Fairchild Swearingen Metroliner ( which was not fly-by-wire ) , that <URL> due to a lightening strike . The aircraft entered into a uncontrolled flight , which loaded the aircraft beyond limit , resulting in its disintegration .
No clearance is issued without the pilot requesting it . But a request is not just something you do on the radio . The interesting questions here is : how do pilots request something ? The most common way is through a flight plan . By filing a flight plan , the pilot details the planned flight , from departure to destination , via a predefined route , with a requested speed and level . ATC will issue a flightplan clearance prior to departure or prior to entering controlled airspace . This covers the general flight , and basically lets the flight take place . During the flight , specific details need to be requested by the pilot - such as taxi - but only if the controller is not already aware that the flight is ready for whatever it is they are requesting . For example , during radar vectors for approach , ATC already knows that the flight is requesting approach at their destination ( since the destination is noted in the flightplan ) , so ATC will clear the flight for approach without needing the pilot to explicitally request it . Same goes for landing clearance . The pilot does not have to explicitally say " request to land " , because this is already a part of the flight plan . ATC will automatically issue a landing clearance when appropriate . ATC can issue instructions or clearances to flights that deviate from their flightplan if needed for safety or efficiency reasons . For example , ATC may instruct a flight to change level due to traffic ahead on the same level . But the flight plan is always the basis for all clearances .
Heathrow is somewhat of a standout when it comes to volume . Your wording , that LHR " gets by " with 2 runways is apt . By movements , it is the busiest 2-runway airport in the world . By passenger volume it is second only to Dubai Intl. ( Note , though , that DXB is home to Emirates , who has the world 's largest fleet of A380 's . They are the only airport that averages over 200 passengers per movement ! ) Aircraft movement is the best way to look at it from a runway usage standpoint . The following chart is sorted by aircraft movement . * <URL> As you can see , the top 3 all have 5 or more runways . There are 7 large airports with 5 or more rwys and they all fall in the top 16 . The top 16 is rounded out by 5 airports with 4 runways , one with 3 runways and ... LHR . The next 2-rwy airport on the list is Benito Juarez Intl. in Mexico City clear down at 21st on the list . Any busy airport with 2 runways has to make those runways work as tightly as possible with little room for error . Otherwise they end up with delays . If I sort the list by movements per rwy , all of those with 2 rwys rise to the top . 10 of the top 15 have 2 rwys . <URL> So , how does LHR pull it off ? How do they manage to pack all those flights in to just two runways?There 's a downside to handling that kind of volume with so few runways . The following collage gives a clue as to what that is . <URL> Those are just a random pick of arrivals at a couple of random times yesterday morning at LHR . There was no significant weather at the times . As you can see , you just do n't arrive at LHR without being put in a holding stack . Every single flight I could find had to do at least one racetrack . At any point during the day , in places like Chesham , Effingham and Brentwood , if you look up there will be as many as 6 or 7 aircraft doing racetracks waiting to be cleared into Heathrow . That makes for very efficient runway usage when there are 20 planes waiting in line , but it 's terribly inefficient for the airlines and passengers to have to spend so much time burning fuel circling around London . On the flip side , building more runways has a down side too . It will get the planes out of the air quicker , but , as happens at Schipol - which has 6 runways - you can end up with a long taxi back to the terminal . All data was taken from Wikipedia .
Are there general aviation aircraft that have more than 2 " ranges " Yes . <URL> . The loading graphs look like this : Note also that the aircraft is certificated in both the Normal and Utility category , and the weight/CG ranges are different ( Utility being a subset of what 's permissible for Normal category operations ) - so there are two different operating envelopes that must be considered .
Early autopilots would only control one degree of freedom . Starting with the yaw damper of the <URL> , they were a simple feedback loop involving a gyro , a single control surface and some damping circuitry . Example : A roll gyro was coupled to the ailerons and kept the wings level . Commanding a bank angle would simply shift the zero point of the gyro to a different angle , and some damping made sure that the movement was slow and did not overshoot . This , however , would neglect any cross coupling . Banking flight needs more thrust to keep altitude , but the roll autopilot would not " know " of engines or throttles , just ailerons . The same was true for analogue pitch and altitude hold systems which had a simple feedback loop with the throttle and the elevator , but no other controls . Modern digital autopilots , starting with the one in the <URL> , control all axes in parallel and use a multitude of sensors and feedback loops to control the whole aircraft in one go . This is much easier to achieve with digital control , and gives smoother responses since cross-coupling effects can be anticipated and corrected before they manifest themselves .
Blades of wind turbines , airplanes and helicopters are essentially the same . They are all wings , roughly to do the same job . However , each one is designed or enhanced to do their special job . The differences can be : Number of revolutions Wing span Rate of flow Tip speed Density of medium Material Load Turbine blades are designed to move in large volumes of rather slow moving air ( usually 10-30 mph ) and not create turbulence that fouls the next blade . Aircraft propellers are designed to move high velocity air and avoid the turbulence by moving out of the way . Wind turbines use blade pitch to adjust the rotation speed and the generated power . Wind turbine 's control system adjusts the blade pitch to keep the rotor speed within operating limits as the wind speed changes . In aircraft , blade pitch is usually described as " coarse " for a coarser angle , and " fine " for a finer .
I have worked on large and small aircraft . You will find a 400hz power bus only on large aircraft . The reason is the greater quantity of poles in the generator and hence weight . Smaller aircraft use a 28v DC system for the avionics .
Most accidents are referred to by flight number It depends who it is that is referring to the accident , and on who they are addressing . News media and the general public Newpapers and other media use flight numbers because that is the number known to friends and relatives of the individuals concerned and because most members of the public who have flown as passengers are very familiar with the concept of flight numbers but not really familiar with aircraft registration numbers . Investigators Investigating authorities have their own numbering schemes for accidents they investigate . Aircraft registration numbers change when an aircraft is sold to a purchaser based in another country . The only number that stays with an aircraft for its entire life is the manufacturer 's serial number . All these numbers can appear in official accident investigations reports . The registration number is usually prominent . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Jet engines are only efficient at high altitudes and high speed ( 25,000 + feet or so and 300 + knots or so true airspeed ) . The cost of making and operating an airplane capable of flying there is very high , and most general aviation flights have no need of such performance ( or expense ) hence , propeller airplanes . Reciprocating engine propeller airplanes are relatively efficient at low altitudes and airspeeds , they are more economical for the average types of general aviation flights . They are also much cheaper to build and operate than a turbine powered airplane . Turboprops fill the efficiency gap between reciprocating and pure jet engines , being most efficient at mid altitudes and airspeeds . Still more expense and performance than most general aviation flights need though .
end question
start question
What are these suffixes used after the call sign ?
Heavy - all aircraft with maximum take-off weight greater than 300,000 lbs ( whether or not they 're operating at that weight ) It 's to highlight to the controller that wake turbulence could be a problem for a following aircraft . Super - Airbus A380 : As for ' Heavy ' , but more so . Flight of X - All the rest relate to groups or formations containing that number of aircraft . These originate in the FAA regulations and are summarised on <URL> There are a number of other unusual suffixes including ' Concorde ' ( used only by British Airways for the now retired Concorde ) , Lifeguard ( for medical flights ) , and others
Near the poles ' polar grid navigation ' is used . By placing a rectangular grid over the pole , aligned with the prime meridian , a local coordinate system is created . Aircraft fly constant grid courses near the poles . For your example crossing the south pole approaching over the prime meridian the true course will change from 180 ° ( T ) to 000 ° ( T ) , but the grid course will remain 180 ° ( G ) all the time . Grid courses and true courses can be converted easily , this <URL> explains it nicely ( although he gets the grid track in the wrong direction in the end , it should be 110 ° ( G ) instead of 290 ° ( G ) )
When you request flight following generally you contact the facility ( either approach or center ) responsible for the airspace you 're in , so your real question is " How the heck do I know whose airspace I 'm in ?! " The answer can usually be found on the charts , or in other FAA publications . Let 's look at your example ( I was over the Pottstown VOR ( ) heading to Lancaster ( ) on the 269 radial . ) in detail with some convenient visual aids . Preflight Planning and the A/FD You do n't tell us what airport you took off from , but I 'm going to assume ( Heritage Airport ) as a convenient starting point . If we have a look in the <URL> for we 'll get an answer very quickly from the " Communications " section : <URL> So if we 're planning a flight out of KPTW and intend to pick up flight following our call to ATC should be made to Philadelphia Approach , on 126.85 ( and if we 're going IFR and need to talk to them on the ground there 's a convenient phone number ) . If you have an application like Foreflight or Garmin Pilot this information is readily available to you in the cockpit as well , so if you 're unsure who to contact you can always pull up the A/FD information for the nearest airport and use that as a starting point . In-Flight - Using the Charts Let 's say you did n't remember to look in the A/FD to see who you needed to talk to while you were on the ground , and the battery in your iPad is dead so Foreflight is out of the picture in the air . You can pull out your paper charts and get most of the same information in flight . If we plot it puts you on the very bottom of the New York Sectional Chart , and on the Philadelphia Terminal Area Chart for part of the flight , so let 's take a closer look at the route on each of those . First the New York Sectional : <URL> Not much help here - or at least nothing glaringly obvious . Let 's look at the Philadelphia TAC : <URL> AHA ! There are helpful white boxes with blue text on this chart that tell you and list frequencies , altitudes , and active runways . This looks promising : Since the little box says to contact Philadelphia Approach that 's who you should probably call first . In your case there happen to be two helpful boxes , one above your route of flight and one below it . Both boxes are roughly equidistant from the route of flight , so it 's not obvious which one you should pay attention to . In cases like this you can call on either frequency ( at least you 're calling the right facility - they may make you call on a different frequency and talk to another controller , but you 're in the right neighborhood at least . <URL> You can also go to the Airport/Facility Directory ( A/FD ) as a tie-breaker ( though you 're probably less likely to pull the book out mid-air , and if you did you 'd probably use the nearest airport like I described above ) . The blue boxes are talking about the Philadelphia Class B airspace , so if we look at the entry for the Class B airport ( Philadelphia International - ) we 'll get more details on which radio frequencies we should use : <URL> If you 're flying along the 269 radial from you 're somewhere " northwest of the airport " , so you would call Philadelphia Approach on 124.35 / 128.4 if you 're above 5,000 feet , or 126.85 ( the same frequency we got from the A/FD entry for ) if you 're below 5,000 feet . I 'd Like To Phone A Friend There 's one final way to figure out who you should talk to , and that 's to call someone else and ask . If you 're opening your flight plan with Flight Service over the radio they will usually sign off with " For flight following try Philadelphia Approach on 126.85 " and the usual plea for PIREPS , and if they do n't offer a frequency you can always ask them .
For the US , this is covered in <URL> , or in a more human-interpretable way from an <URL> . When are you required to use your aircraft registration By default unless you have a callsign Can anyone use whatever call sign they want or is it limited to airlines only ? What you use must be registered . For international flights if you fly frequently enough you can get a 3 letter ICAO designator ( SWA , DAL , UAL , etc. ) There are national callsigns which are detailed in that letter , and local callsigns which may apply only to your tower , TRACON , or center depending on who you talk to and what their own rules for issuing a letter of agreement to use it are .
On light aircraft , polycarbonate windshields have been the norm . On higher speed aircraft , glass is used , particularly with heated windshields . Glass is actually a " plastic " but the polycarbonate plastics and glass have very different properties . Polycarbonate tends to be pretty shatter resistant , although I know a turkey vulture which proved otherwise ( grin ) . It really depends upon the type of aircraft and the design criteria , which include the operations , temperature , heat requirements ( ie hot windshield for de ice ) , weight considerations , EMI considerations ( coatings , etc. ) and so on . Both materials have been in sure for a long time . So what kind of aircraft are you talking about ?
The wing planform ( which is the shape and layout of wing ) for each aircraft is mainly based on the aerodynamic requirements . There are other considerations like stealth , controllability etc. . The basic terminology in the wing geometry is given in the figure below . <URL> Source : grc.nasa.gov Most of the wing platforms in use ( or have been used ) fall under one of these categories . Elliptical Aerodynamically , the elliptical planform is the most efficient as elliptical spanwise lift distribution has the lowest possible induced drag ( as given by thin airfoil theory ) . However , the most important disadvantage of the elliptical wing is that its manufacturability is poor . Perhaps the most famous aircraft with elliptical planform is the <URL> , used in Battle of Britan . <URL> " <URL> " by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) - Own work . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Interestingly , the elliptical wing was not decided to minimize induced drag , but to house the retractable landing gear along with guns and ammunition inside a wing that had to be thin . As per designer Beverly Shenstone , The ellipse was simply the shape that allowed us the thinnest possible wing with room inside to carry the necessary structure and the things we wanted to cram in . And it looked nice . Some aircraft like the <URL> had a semi elliptical wing , with only the leading or trailing edge elliptical . <URL> " <URL> " by Unknown - <URL> . Licensed under CC0 via <URL> . Rectangular Arguably the simplest wing planform from a manufacturing point of view , the rectangular wing is a straight , untapered wing . A good example would be the light general aircraft like <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . The main disadvantage of this wing is that it is aerodynamically inefficient . Tapered Wing This is a modification of the rectangular wing where the chord is varied across the span to approximate the elliptical lift distribution . While not as efficient as the elliptical lift distribution , it offers a compromise between manufacturability and efficiency . A very good example of aircraft using this type of wing is the North American <URL> , which became the premier USAAF escort fighter against the Luftwaffe . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Constant Chord with Tapered Outer This is midway between the rectangular and the tapered wing , with the inner part having constant chord and the outer part having a taper . A very good example of this type of wing is the <URL> . <URL> Source : Almost all of the wings seen so far are used in subsonic aircraft due to the large drag caused by them in the transonic regime . Most of the wings used in supersonic aircraft fall under one of the following categories . Delta The delta is a very low aspect ratio wing used in supersonic aircraft , most notably in the European designs . The main advantages of the delta wing is that is efficient in all the flight regimes ( subsonic , transonic and supersonic ) . Also , the wing offers a large wing area for the shape , reducing wing loading and improving maneuverability . The delta wing design is also very strong structurally , offering large volume for internal fuel . The delta wings are also quite simple to build and maintain . The main disadvantages are that they have high induced drag due to low aspect ratio and also that they should have high angle of attack at low speeds ( takeoff and landing ) , mainly due to fact that at these speeds , lift is generated by vortices . To compensate for this , they have high stall angles . A very good example for this wing is the Dassault <URL> , which is an example of tailless delta i.e. without horizontal stabilizers . <URL> Source : www.aircraftrecognition.co.uk A variant of the delta wing used in some aircraft is the one with horizontal stabilizer ( tailed delta ) , the most famous of them being the Russian <URL> . <URL> Source : hdwallpapers.cat Another variant is the one used by the <URL> , the so called cropped delta , where the tips of the delta are ' cut off ' to reduce drag at high angles of attack . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . Yet another variant of the delta wing ( this planform is very popular in combat aircraft ) , is the so called double delta , where the leading edge angle is not constant , but has two different values . One good example of this is the <URL> ' Tejas ' under development in India . <URL> " <URL> " by Rinju9 - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Trapezoidal The trapezoidal wing is a high performance configuration such that the leading edge sweeps back and the trailing edge sweeps forward . This is mostly found in combat aircraft from the US . This wing configuration offers efficient supersonic flight and has very good stealth characteristics . However , the wing loading is quite high , resulting in reduced maneuverability , especially instantaneous turn rate . This wing configuration is used most notably in the Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor . <URL> " <URL> " by
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
Outside US , SI is generally used for everything except altitude , distance and speed . Altitude : 1000 ft happens to be reasonable vertical separation , which is somewhat easier to calculate with than the corresponding metric figure 300 m. Distance : There are two quantities that were never converted to decimal . Time and angle . Since we did n't switch to gradians , it makes sense to keep nautical mile , which corresponds to 1 minute along meridian or equator , as it makes calculating distances from navigational maps somewhat easier . If the maps were marked in gradian coordinates , 1 gradian would be 100 km and kilometres would be used . Speed : Obviously based on the unit of distance in use . In Russia , Commonwealth of Independent States ( most former Soviet countries ) and China ( and I am not sure whether some other Asian countries ) , metric system is used for everything . I believe in Russia they recently switched to flight levels based on feet , but they do use metres below transition altitude . Before second world war , aircraft built in continental Europe usually had instruments in metric units as well . However before the war aviation was more advanced in the USA , instrument procedures were developed in USA and after the war there was surplus of US-built planes , so most of the world just adopted the US procedures including the units they used as everybody using the same units was more important than any personal preferences . Without these reasons we 'd be probably using metric in Europe for everything too .
Ramp refers to the area in airport where the aircraft are parked . This term comes from the days of seaplanes . From <URL> : The term ' Ramp ' traces its roots back to the days of seaplanes when there literally was a ramp from the water to the terminal parking area . In case of seaplanes , the area is actually an inclined plane between the shore and water . This is similar to the term boat ramp . Note that this is used mainly in US . The ICAO ( and FAA ) terminology for the area is Apron .
Q : Which link of a chain will fail first when you exceed the maximum design tension ? A : The weakest link . It could be any link since none is designed as the weakest link .
Yes , squawk codes are still used and required with ADS-B . It 's possible that in the future this may change , but because of the bifurcated implementation the FAA has chosen for ADS-B I do n't think it 's likely . ADS-B operates by giving additional information beyond the Mode A ( squawk ) code - this is either encoded on the 1090MHz transponder frequency ( Mode S " Extended Squitter " - what most of the world uses ) or sent on a separate frequency ( the 987MHz " Universal Access Transceiver " frequency , which is a US/FAA only thing mainly intended for light GA aircraft ) . The Mode S and Extended Squitter data includes things like the aircraft 's unique Mode S address ( a 24-bit number assigned to the aircraft by its national registry , in the US this is linked to the N number ) , and may also provide the tail number or flight number . The ATC radar system will accept and display this information for the controller . At the moment the Mode S/ES data is not used as a substitute for the Mode A transponder code , but because Mode S data is coming through the ATC secondary radar system it 's all immediately available with the secondary radar return the same way a Mode A squawk code is , and it 's possible that the FAA may use the Mode S ID in place of the Mode A squawk code for these aircraft in the future . The 987MHz UAT transmissions also include the Mode S address ( because it 's a useful unique identifier for a given aircraft ) and flight ID/tail number can be sent as well . Information from UAT transmitters is received through separate ground stations and recombined with the radar return in the ATC radar back-end . There 's some magic to that recombining which is out of my depth , but my limited understanding is that since the UAT data is n't directly correlated with a radar return squawk codes are part of how the two are matched up ( the radar computer knows your N number by your discrete squawk code , the UAT ground station knows it from your Mode S ID - if they match and the position data is within reason the ADS-B information can be associated with your radar data block ) .
Accelerometers are used , however for lower latency and higher definition , tracking infrared emitters is the better choice1 . The A-10 as you wrote uses inertial or magnetic trackers . The Eurofighter helmet uses infrared tracking . <URL> ... the Typhoon 's HMSS features lower latency , higher definition , improved symbology and night vision . It 's the one on the left ( <URL> ) . You can already see it has an organic brain of its own ; those bumps are the IR LEDs <URL> .
During development , a lot of different wind tunnels are used . Scales range from full scale to less than 1/100 , and sometimes not only the geometric , but also the dynamic and elastic properties of the aircraft to be tested must be modelled correctly . Today , preliminary work is mostly done in numerical simulations , but before the availability of computers , early wind tunnel models would be between 1/50 to 1/16 scale ( depending on the size of the real article and the available wind tunnel ) , often using modular models on which different engine placements or tail geometries could be tried out . Since wind tunnel testing costs real money , early tests are restricted to small , low-cost tunnels which run at ambient temperature and density . Differences in the Reynolds number between test article and the real aircraft are covered with correction factors and experience . Only when a design is moving ahead during development , bigger and more expensive tunnels are used . Again , matching the Reynolds number is not possible and not even necessary for some tests : For a spin tunnel the test article must be scaled dynamically ( so it has correct moments of inertia ) , but <URL> , so the precision of a 1/20 scale model is sufficient . Also , a free-falling model in a spin tunnel needs quite a bit of space to move around , so even small models already need test sections with a diameter of several meters . To reduce cost and avoid the tight schedules of wind tunnels , free-flying or radio controlled models are also used . Watch how Dornier engineers tested the dynamic behavior of the then-new tricycle gear of the <URL> in <URL> ( starting at 2:00 ' ) or ditching characteristics ( starting at 2:13 ' ) . Only when both Mach and Reynolds number need to be matched , cryogenic and pressurised wind tunnels are used . Due to their energy demand and availability , such tests need to be scheduled years in advance and meticulously planned . Models can run into millions of dollars or Euros , so such tests will mostly narrow down parameters which had been measured previously in simpler tests . Large tunnels like the 9.5 x9 .5 m <URL> in Marknesse ( the Netherlands ) are mostly used for low-speed and high-lift characteristics testing since its 12.6 MW engine can only support a speed of 62 m/s at full power . On the other end of the scale are hypersonic <URL> which support a testing section of 0.5 m diameter in which Mach 6 can be achieved for a fraction of a second . Full-scale testing in a wind tunnel is only possible with small aircraft - see the answers to <URL> for examples . Even then , the speeds do not match the top speed of the aircraft , so the loads are a fraction of the real loads . Jan Roskam observes in his book " <URL> " : It certainly is an unusual luxury for an engineer to have full Reynolds Number tunnel data available .
This answer applies to the AVRO RJ ( BAe 146 ) , because this is the aircraft I 've flown . Other aircraft may or may not have similar features/issues/restrictions . Reasons for APU use in mid-air For takeoff , the APU bleed-air can be used to supply the cabin air pressure system to reduce load on engines . This leads to a significant reduction in runway length required . This is routinely used on short runways . Similar reason for the landing , where , for the missed approach/go-around phase , a high climb gradient is required . For example in mountainous areas or combined with icing conditions , where use of engine bleed air is limited , the APU bleed air can feed the cabin pressurization . During flight , when in icing conditions . Similar reason as above . The air-frame anti icing system uses that much bleed-air , there is not much left for cabin pressurization ( or the other way round ) . If the APU bleed-air is used to pressurize the cabin , the ( already low ) climb gradient is improved . During flight , in the event of a generator failure . The generator of the APU can replace one failed generator of an engine . To save engine life . If APU bleed air ( - to pressurize cabin ) is used for normal takeoff , the peak engine temperatures will be lower during takeoff . This increases engine life as the peak engine temperature is the main factor of engine life . It 's significantly cheaper to replace an APU than an engine . In all of the above cases , there are restrictions on the operation of the APU . It may not light-up above 15 ' 000 ft or operation above 25 ' 000 ft is not allowed or not recommended . General operating rules for the APU ( common sense when using turbines ) recommend to use bleed air only after couple of minutes warm-up after startup . Likewise , on shutdown , it should be left running without load to cool down for a few minutes before switching off . The exact timings differ greatly between APU models . Procedures Before Takeoff , If the API is not used during climb , the APU is normally shut down during taxi checks . If the pilots decide to use the APU during climb , it is started during normal engine start . In this case the APU bleed air is used to feed the cabin pressurization . After Takeoff depending on the model of the APU ( and following airline procedures ) , the APU usage is limited to a specified time or altitude . Before reaching this limit , the APU has to be shut down . ( cabin air changeover to the engine bleed air , cool-off period of the APU , switching off ) During Flight In case of a technical problem or emergency , the Abnormal Checklist will suggest or dictate the use of the APU for the remainder of the flight . For example : A generator problem , the APU generator replace the failed generator . This may impose limits to flight altitude and duration . Before Landing Usually after passing 10 ' 000 feet , the APU is started and before the final checks , the cabin pressurization system is switched to the APU .
Several things come to mind , but they will all reduce efficiency and/or cost money , so they will not be popular with engine users : For turbofans : Reduce the <URL> of the spinning parts by reducing the bypass ratio . Inertia is mass times distance , so making the engine diameter smaller should have the biggest effect . Increase temperature margins for the turbine . Today , the electronic control ( called <URL> for Full Authority Digital Engine Control ) will limit the amount of fuel that can be injected into the combustion chamber to limit the temperature in the turbine . By running the turbine hotter for a few seconds the turbine torque can be increased , at the cost of a reduction in the lifetime of the turbine . For turboprops : Reduce blade pitch momentarily to unload the propeller , so more torque is available for spooling up the engine core . This , however , reduces thrust when it is needed most . Reduce secondary loads by disconnecting generators and closing bleed valves . This is already done by todays engine control , however . The best way of dealing with the slow engine response is operational : Avoid situations where the need for a rapid spool-up might arise or enter those situations not with engines set to idle , but to some medium power setting . Carrier pilots do this routinely by spooling up the engine shortly before touchdown , so they will have the required thrust at their disposal if the tail hook fails to catch any of the <URL> . Thanks to RalphJ for pointing out that turboprops use the same tactic . Helicopters never let the engine run in idle while in flight . If less thrust ( turboprops ) rsp . lift ( helicopters ) is needed , both adjust pitch to set the desired thrust/lift and keep engine RPM up . Now the mass flow through the engine core is the same as at full thrust , only the amount of heating in the combustion chamber is reduced to adjust the power output of the engine . When more thrust/lift is needed , the pilot adjusts pitch and fuel flow to set the desired thrust/lift level . Since the engine is already running at top speed , the change is not delayed by inertial effects .
The question was formulated in the context of a jet liner such as the Boeing 737-800 or the Airbus , I do not understand why there are persons responding to this question in the context of a smaller less complex aircraft . With that being said , I will like to expand the answer by DeltaLima . Boeing uses a device attached to the Brake metering valve module called De-spin Actuator , this device directs controlled hydraulic fluid to the brakes when the landing gear lever is set to retract to stop the spinning of the wheels . More information can be found in the AMM ATA 32 ( Aircraft Maintenance Manual Chapter on Landing Gear ) .
Stations ( STA ) , generally Fuselage Stations ( FS ) , designate location along the length of the aircraft , increasing from nose to tail . Generally station 0 is somewhere in front of the airplane . One reason for this is that if the airplane grows longer , there still wo n't be any negative stations , and sections of the plane keep their station numbers . FS 100 can also be placed at an important location ( looks like the firewall below ) . Water lines ( WL ) designate location in the height of the aircraft , from ground up . You can probably guess by now that these are holdovers from the marine industry . Like the stations , water line 0 is generally a bit below the aircraft , possibly to have WL 100 at the center of the fuselage , or WL 0 could be at the bottom of the fuselage . Butt lines ( BL ) designate location left/right on the aircraft , generally centered in the middle . While the main system is based on the whole airplane , different parts ( like the wings ) have their own system of STA , WL , and BL . The stations are generally in whatever unit is being used for the aircraft . In the US , this is inches . See <URL> for an example and further explanation . For a picture similar to the one below but with more detail , see <URL> .
<URL> lists a number of specific ways that PIREPs are used by meteorologists : To " assess the strength and position of the jet stream " For thunderstorm and snow level forecasting For <URL> of regional weather phenomena , like " downslope wind storms in the lee of the Sierra Nevada " To " determine the likelihood of clouds thinning or burning off " Their summary is : Better reports and observations , not only from PIREPS but also storm spotters , Webcams and road weather networks help improve the picture of what 's going on in the atmosphere . Automated temperature , wind and humidity reports from MDCRS and the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System in commercial aircraft also get incorporated into computer models . All of these observations lead to improved forecasts and warnings . There are a few very generic references out there too . A 2014 edition of <URL> says : The information will then be added to the distribution system to brief other pilots , help generate inflight advisories like AIRMETs and SIGMETs , as well as updates to the Current and Forecast Icing Products ( CIP/FIP ) , and improve overall forecast accuracy . And an <URL> has a brief mention : when the Aviation Weather Center ( AWC ) receives a pirep , meteorologists use it to verify that their weather forecast is correct or amend it if the pirep contradicts the forecast . Finally , PIREPs ( and <URL> ) are shown <URL> , although that probably is n't what you had in mind by meteorologists ' using ' the information .
This answer was difficult to find as both Flight Operation Manuals and Maintenance Manuals did not say . The only guidance was found in the system description provided by the OEM of the BCSU . I am not mentioning the fleet type because at some point the detailed description might become proprietary . According to the description I found for a given automatic braking system is that it is armed when the pilot presses one of the three pushbutton switches which set the auto-brake level . The system will only arm if gear up is not commanded , there is hydraulic pressure as needed , and no existing faults exist that prohibit normal braking , as well as a few other computers available on the associated data bus . There is nothing that says the system ca n't be armed after touchdown , however the system will only engage when the spoilers are being activated , or are activated . Or more precisely from the black-box point of view automatic braking is engaged whenever two spoiler signals in three appear once automatic braking has been armed . In other words , once armed , the automatic braking will only engage if spoilers are sending the signal that they are being activated , or are activated . It specifically says that the pilot can select another pushbutton switch even after arming . The BSCU acknowledges this new command and executes the corresponding task . Automatic braking is released whenever the braking sequence is interrupted : when an arming condition disappears , when an engaging condition disappears , when one or both brake pedals are held down beyond the defined threshold , when the selected pushbutton is pressed again . The question , therefore is ' After you have already armed at a given setting and the system is actually engaged , because the spoiler actuation has initiated auto-braking , what happens when you press another setting ? ' As long as the arming conditions still exist , which in most cases would , and as long as the engage conditions exist , as would be the case if the spoilers are activated ( at least 2 of three spoiler signals being sent to the BSCU ) , then yes , you may change the setting after touchdown and the BSCU acknowledges this new command and executes the corresponding task .
I found this on <URL> " Some call signs are less obviously associated with a particular airline than others . This might be for historic reasons ( South African Airways uses the callsign " Springbok " , hearkening back to the airline 's old livery which featured a springbok ) , or possibly to avoid confusion with a call sign used by an established airline . Companies ' assigned names may change as a result of mergers , acquisitions , or change in company name or status ; British Airways uses BOAC 's old callsign ( " Speedbird " ) , as British Airways was formed by a merger of BOAC and British European Airways . Country names can also change over time and new call signs may be agreed in substitution for traditional ones . " Before America West bought US Airways , their callsigns were Cactus ( associated with the deserts of the American West ) and USAir . After the merger , the combined airline kept the better-known ( airline ) name , and the other airline 's callsign . Now , after the acquisition/merger of American Airlines , they 're using that airline 's name and callsign . Leading to more than a few radio calls recently ( late spring / early summer 2015 ) along the lines of
end question
start question
Can I pilot a plane while having a chronic mental health condition ?
You have a couple of options here : As Skip Miller said , you can take flight lessons . Up until you want to solo , you do n't need a medical certificate . Often flight schools have " Discovery Flights " for a reduced cost that still allows you to fly left seat and get half an hour to an hour of flight . Careful though , its addicting . Actual costs for this range from \ $ 75 to over \ $ 300 depending on the type of aircraft you are going to fly . Hourly rates for a Cessna 152 average around \ $ 90 an hour , to a 172 up to \ $ 150 an hour , and more sleek aircraft like a Cirrus SR-22 at \ $ 300 per hour or more . Instructor rates go from \ $ 35 per hour to \ $ 65 per hour ( typically ) depending on the type of instruction . Another option is to find a pilot who wants to build hours and go flying . They may let you fly the airplane around a little bit , but you 'll most likely be flying right seat and probably wo n't let you do the more complicated phases of flight like take-off/landing and operations in controlled airspace . If you find a pilot willing to do this then you can share costs ( split down the middle ) . By the way do n't get discouraged about your medical condition if you really want to fly . There are also a few options there too . First , you could go through the rather lengthy process with the FAA to have your case reviewed and if possible issued a special issuance medical certificate . Some of what you list are automatically disqualifying depending on the medications you may take , but <URL> and getting medicals issued . Second , you could get a sport pilot license , which also does not require a medical ( just a drivers license ) . There may be hiccups with your conditions here too , so its best to talk to an AME or flight instructor before getting too deep . Let me answer your specific question : Is there a way I can fly with a copilot without a pilot 's license ? I take this to mean that the " copilot " is a non-pilot rated passenger . Unless you are a certificated pilot , then no . A " co-pilot " must be just that , a pilot . Otherwise they are just a passenger sitting in the front seat . Since that person is a passenger , you must be a fully licensed pilot to fly with them ( students can not take passengers ) . If the copilot is a pilot rated individual , then yes , you can go flying with them ( provided it is not a Part 135 flight ) . That person must be rated for the aircraft that you are flying and must meet currency requirements to carry passengers ( you ) . <URL> under the supervision of the pilot provided the pilot is pilot in command and unless the pilot is a CFI , they are not providing instruction .
Normally , an airfoil is optimized for best lift/drag ( L/D ) efficiency for a certain flight profile ( usually a compromise ) . Since most of the time for most aircraft inverted flight is not an issue , you get an airfoil that is optimized for upright flight , and this is best achieved with asymmetric geometries . However , depending on the <URL> any airfoil can ( and will ) generate " negative " lift , only much less efficiently so , than for the optimized regime , resulting in increased drag . The desired angle of attack for conventional aerodynamically controlled aircraft is maintained by the elevator . For symmetric airfoils commonly used for aerobatic planes , the performance for upright and inverted flight is quite similar . For 99 % of all other airfoils inverted flight will work up to a certain point , depending on the available power , CG , the maximum lift and rudder forces availabe before stall . As a result , for some aircraft , a stable inverted flight can not be maintained , while for others it could be ( but with varying penalty to performance , stall speed etc ) . The aerodynamical possiblity of inverted flight is of course limited by structural and other considerations .
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
<URL> , and I 'll add a few bits to that . Even after having gotten my license , I still use Flight Sims ( mainly Microsoft FSX and X-Plane 10 ) for some practice . Before flying into an unfamiliar airport , or over an unfamiliar area , I 'll often load it up in a simulator , and fly it . Especially when I was a student , I found this incredibly helpful for my long cross country flights . You can look at a map all you want , but its still not the same as sitting in the simulator , and looking around ( " I see the mountain on my left ... and the lake below me . I can follow this valley all the way to the aiport ... " etc ) . And I 've generally found the simulator , with good terrain and textures loaded , can be pretty close to reality . The night before I did a student flight from <URL> , I flew the entire thing in FSX . The next day , it really felt pretty much like making the same flight all over again . Based on the landmarks , timing , views , etc , I knew exactly where I was , and I was confident that everything was going right . That said , in my opinion there are some things simulators do very poorly . Some of these are : Take offsThe application of power and left-turning tendency on the ground just does n't feel realistic at all . The climb out does n't feel right . LandingsGround effect is difficult to observe in a simulator . The flare does n't feel like reality , and touching down ( or bouncing ) is not realistic at all . Cross Control , Slip , Spin &amp; Unusual AttitudesAnything beyond basic maneuvers up to 30 degrees bank or 20 degrees climb does n't match reality . Because of these limitations , I would NOT use a flight simulator to try to learn Take Offs , Landings , or certain maneuvers . ( You can learn the " procedure " in a simulator ... when to reduce power , when to add flaps . But the " feel " will be all wrong ) . If you 're going to try to incorporate Flight Sim into your training , there are some basic things you should do : Spend LOTS of time configuring itUnlike a video-game , this is not " plug-n-play " . Spend time learning all the controls . Turn on RealismWhen adjusting your controls , set all " null-zones " to zero , set " Sensitivity " to maximum , turn off helpers like " auto-mixture " and " auto-rudder " , etc. . ( However , I do keep " Gyro-Drift " turned off in my sim . Its annoying , and adds little practical value ) Turn on WeatherThe flight simulators typically come pre-setup with zero wind , good weather , standard temperature , etc. . Configure yours to pull from real-world weather sources , or add some clouds , a variety of winds , and do n't always fly at noon . Set the timing for early morning flights , twilight flights , night flights , etc. . Another " fun " area where Flight Simulators can be slightly helpful is in Emergency Procedures.Typically in real-world training , my instructor told me : " We 're going to practice engine-out emergencies " and my mind immediately starts preparing for that ... And naturally , we have to do them at a safe altitude in a safe area.In a flight simulator , you can set up the computer to give you a random emergency at a random time . You might get the problem on short-final , or over a metro-downtown area . Something that you just ca n't do in reality.I have n't had any real-life emergencies , so I do n't know how accurate flight simulator is . But I believe that some practice is better than no practice at all , and flight sim lets me fly into storms , icing , get lost in fog , fly approaches below minimums , have an engine seize up on me , etc , all without risking my butt or a $ 200,000 airframe . Since @Lnafziger suggested more specifically addressing flight training : I do believe that Flight Sim can help with certain aspects of training , but in other areas , it is no help at all , or actually harmful . Training Areas simulators can help with : ProceduresReviewing steps and procedures before going in the air . For example , for a student , steep turns or stall recovery can be a little nerve wracking at first . It may be much easier ( and cheaper ) to do it in a sim with an instructor , discussing all the steps and reasons for actions . Then when the student gets in the air , they wo n't have the " feel " for it , but at least the general process is already familiar . NavigationTuning and identifying VORs , and interpreting the needles can be done just as well be done on the ground as in the air . If the sim has good , realistic terrain ( I prefer <URL> ) , it can also be used for some visual reference lessons . Instrument interpretationScanning and cross-checking the 6-pack of instruments can be done in a simulator just fine , and a student can practice doing it for long periods of time for a fraction of the cost of flight-time . Training Areas simulators are very bad at : On the ground &amp; Outside the planeAnything on the ground , such as taxiing and parking , or anything outside the airplane , such as pre-flight inspection , or weather interpretation , just does n't work in a sim . RadiosI have n't seen any flight sims that really work for the
What you are proposing is called a " tandem wing " , and it 's been done before . A brief search should produce more than enough research papers about the advantages and disadvantages of this particular design . The near-complete absence of multiple-wing designs in modern aviation should be a hint that the design has issues . Unless you particularly need the advantages of the design more than the drawbacks , there 's no particular reason to use it .
Clouds can be formed in many different ways . Before we go through them , we need to establish some basic facts . Clouds are made up of liquid water , or solid ice . Clouds are not water vapour ; water is a gas , and is invisible . Once more , because this is important : clouds are liquid water , not water vapour . Water droplets in clouds are extremely small . Clouds are visible because light is scattered in these droplets . The water droplets can stay suspended in the sky due to friction and air currents . In order for water vapour to condense into liquid water droplets , to form clouds , condensation nuclei must be present . This can be tiny particles of dust or other impurities around which water droplets can form . This is where the idea of human cloud generation comes form - by adding condensation nuclei to the atmosphere , clouds are more likely to form . A mass of air can contain a certain amount of water vapour ( = gas ) . The maximum amount depends on several factors , of which the most important one is temperature . Cold air can contain less water vapour than warm air . If more water vapour is present than the air can contain , the water has to condense ( the opposite of evaporate ) , to form water droplets - clouds . So , how are clouds formed then ? By adding moisture Air can only contain a certain amount of water vapour . If we try to add more water vapour to the air , it " wo n't fit " . As a result , the water vapour will condense , forming visible water droplets - clouds . This can happen over a surface of water during a warm day , when surface water evaporates . The air wo n't be able to absorb the evaporated water , so instead it has to become liquid . Cooling from below ( advection ) Warm air can contain more water vapour than cold air . When a warm , moist airmass moves over a cold surface , the temperature of the air will drop . When reaching a certain temperature , the air becomes saturated - it contains exactly as much water vapour as it possible can . We call this temperature the dew point . If the air is cooled further , some of the water vapour in the air has to condense into water droplets . Imagine squeezing a saturated sponge - the water has to come out . Adiabatic cooling ( convection ) On a sunny day , the sun will heat up the surface of the earth . Because the surface is not uniform , it will heat up at different rates . A sandy field will get much warmer than a wet area , for example . The air directly above such hot areas will also be heated up , by radiation from the surface . Hot air has a lower density than cold air , so at some point it will start to rise ( " heat rises " ) . As this warm bubble of air rises , it will start to expand . This is because pressure drops with altitude . As the air expands , it will cool off . Now we 're back at the basic principle that cold air can hold less water vapour than hot air . As our bubble of air rises , and cools down , at some point , it will reach the dew point , and a cloud will form . The adiabatic lapse rate is the rate at which a bubble of rising air will cool off with altitude . Rising air will cool with approximately 3 degrees C per 1,000 ft of altitude gain ( dry adiabatic lapse rate - DALR ) , simply because it expands as a result of the lower pressure . When air starts to condense , and a cloud forms , this process releases latent heat . Simply put , it took energy to make the water evaporate , and this energy is released again when the water condenses . This means that once our bubble of rising air reaches the dew point , and a cloud starts to form , it will actually cool off slower . The saturated adiabatic lapse rate ( SALR ) is approximately 1.5 degrees C per 1,000 ft. Now , for how long will our bubble of air keep rising ? It will keep rising as long as the air surrounding it is cooler than itself . The general temperature of the atmosphere at a given location is known as the enviromental lapse rate - ELR or ELT . As long as the DALR is less than the ELR up to the dew point , rising air will form clouds . Frontal lifting A warm front is when a mass of warm air moves forwards , displacing a mass of colder air . Since warm air has a lower density than cold air , when the two air masses meet , the warm air will be forced upwards , above the cold air . This causes the air to expand , and cool . As this happens , the air might reach the dew point , and clouds will be formed . Orographic lift Orographic lift is quite similar to frontal lift . Instead of being forced up by cold air below , an air mass is forced upwards by terrain ( i.e. wind blowing towards a mountain ) . Then it 's the same old story - the air rises , expands , cools and water vapour condenses . Turbulence and convergence Mechanical turbulence , for example due to rough terrain , can cause vertical movements in the atmosphere . If these are large enough , air can be forced upwards , which , as we now know , will form a cloud . Convergence is when two air masses move towards each other , creating a vertical stream of air in the middle . This column of air moves upwards , an
There have been tests of real aircraft in wind tunnels , with a pilot sitting in the cockpit . But in all cases the plane had been tied in place with strings . Trimming the lift and especially the thrust in all phases of the test is really impossible . The Messerschmitt 109 was tested in the French Chalais-Meudon tunnel in 1940 , the Bell P-39 was tested at Langley , where the top speed could be improved from 340 to 392 MPH , the <URL> was tested at Langley in 1943 like most small military planes of that period , and lately a stealth demonstrator made by MBB was tested in 1984 , in most cases with the pilot in place . These are the ones I know ; there were certainly more .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
Depending on certain factors , you can accept a SID clearance knowing that you can not make the required climb gradient with one engine inoperative ( OEI ) . The FAA <URL> 5-2-8 ODP and SIDs states this : ODPs and SIDs assume normal aircraft performance , and that all engines are operating ( AEO ) . Development of contingency procedures , required to cover the case of an engine failure or other emergency in flight that may occur after liftoff , is the responsibility of the operator . This answer begs another question and what are some contingency procedures you can consider when accepting a SID when the required climb gradient is not possible with OEI procedures ? The FAA lists two possible places for this information : <URL> <URL> Chapter 1 . AC 120-91 talks about how runway analysis is used to comply with Part 121 / 135 obstacle climb requirement . Instrument Procedures Handbook provides additional information on how OEI takeoff obstacle clearance requirements are different than TERPS requirements . Besides using runway analysis , there is n't a lot of additional information on contingency procedures . Here are my contingency procedures in the preferred order Runway Analysis - Let an engineer figure out the maximum weight to takeoff and be able to climb above the obstacles Radar vectors - Once ATC issues the words " Turn left / right heading xxx ° " they are equally responsible for terrain clearance See and avoid the terrain ( VMC only ) - If we can see the obstacles ... hopefully we can miss them . Of course , mountains do n't care if you can see them or not . They do n't move . Obstacle Departure Procedures ( ODP ) using OEI calculations . SID using OEI calculations . It would be great if others come up with a different set . I would love to see them . I will typically work through this listing and if I am taking off from an airport without radar services in IMC where I do not have runway analysis , I need to be able to make the ODP or the SID on OEI performance .
It has happened <URL> What then happened is that the plane just went on until out of fuel after which it will glide down and skid to a stop ( pilot survived ) . This is assuming there is no obstacle in the way . Another example is the <URL> , a fighter pilot eject and the plane still under power just kept going in a straight line and " landed " in a field . A more deadly example is the <URL> . A mistake in the pressure regulation setting let the plane become unpressurized while climbing to cruise altitude . Both pilots lost consciousness and the plane 's autopilot followed its programmed path following the waypoints and ending up in a holding patter until it ran out of fuel and crashed into the ground . Survival depends on luck with obstacles , whether the plane is properly trimmed and which order the engines flame out in , asymmetric flame-out may result in a spin .
I will mention some considerations that were not mentioned above . First of all , it does make sense to buy a plane for training , and it can save you a lot of money on rent but you need to be aware of what you are doing . The positive side is that airplanes do not depreciate as fast as most assets of their kind ( it is not unheard of being able to sell an airplane for practically the same amount as you bought it several years ago ) . However , consider that : Usually an airplane you want to train in ( something sturdy and easy to control , like a C-150 ) is not an airplane you would like to fly most of the time ( traveling in a 150 is not a lot of fun , now a twin Comanche is a different story ... ) . Insurance costs for a student pilot ( even with various restrictions ) can nearly negate the advantage of not having to rent . So , if you would like to buy an airplane to mostly train ( and have some fun occasionally ) and then sell and buy a ' travel ' ( or aerobatic ) airplane , it can save you money . It is better to get your private first , however , so you can concentrate on initial training ( which is a handful ) without worrying about the ' pleasures ' of plane ownership .
I 'm going to preface this by saying I 'm not a doctor , however I am trained in first aid and CPR . If you are asking whether it would be possible to revive someone who is in respiratory or cardiac arrest to the point where they could fly again then the answer is absolutely not . The movies make it seem like you can give CPR and 2 minutes later the person is running around shooting guns , however that 's very far from the truth . CPR and rescue breathing are techniques which can , if done properly , keep someone 's blood moving enough that radical emergency medicine may save their life . CPR cracks and/or breaks ribs and can cause internal injuries even when it 's done right , rescue breathing does n't generally cause injury , however anyone who has needed either will require days , weeks or even months of intensive care and recovery . As to whether it would be possible to administer CPR or rescue breathing to someone in a light airplane then I would say yes , with extreme difficulty and a low chance of success . CPR requires a lot of force , you use the full weight of your upper body concentrated on one single point on the person 's chest , unless you could lay the person flat on a hard surface you 'd probably be wasting your time , so if the seats reclined a person in the back seat may be able to lean over and do it , although that 's extremely chancy of working due to the angle and the cushioning of the seat . Rescue breathing is possible with a seated person , provided you can open the airway , getting the angle on that would be very tricky in the constrained area of a small cockpit . Again , if the seat could recline a person in the back would have a better chance of doing this . Most importantly to remember is that if the sole pilot dies or becomes incapacitated someone else has to fly the airplane . Struggling to get into position to perform CPR or mouth to mouth on a seated person would be a great way to snag the stick and send the airplane out of control . If there 's a back seater by all means let them give it a shot , but your best bet at survival is getting control of the airplane and calling ATC for someone to talk you through things , it 's happened before and has a remarkably good survival rate .
Shamelessly quoting from <URL> : ( emphasys mine ) A Condition Lever is a pilot actuated control which is located within the throttle quadrant of a turboprop engine equipped aircraft . It is utilised to control some functions of both the propeller and the engine . These functions vary from installation to installation . Functions of the condition lever can include any of the following : Fuel cut-off . Propeller feathering . Propeller un-feathering . Low idle/high idle selection . Propeller speed control .
First , let 's see whether it 's legal . <URL> notes that : 7 . EXPLANATION OF CHANGES . The following changes apply to all LAHSO . a. ... b. Solo student pilots will not conduct LAHSO . However , you could interpret that as not applicable to your situation , as you are not the sole occupant of the aircraft : <URL> ( a ) General . ... The term " solo flight " as used in this subpart means that flight time during which a student pilot is the sole occupant of the aircraft ... Though it might be allowed , note it does not say must : <URL> ... Student pilots or pilots not familiar with LAHSO should not participate in the program . I 'd recommend against doing so because LAHSO can add to your workload , especially if you 're a bit nervous on your checkride . Also , the AIM note on discouraging LAHSO is rather valid and if done improperly , can affect safety . Having said that , the examiner is likely to ask questions on LAHSO during your practical examination , especially since <URL> . This may include : Requirements to accept a LAHSO clearance ATC pharseology for LAHSO Pilot responsibilities while carrying out LAHSO In any case , always remember that you do not need to accept a LAHSO clearance -- if you do not feel comfortable with doing so , ATC will provide arrangements to land full-length on the same runway or another one . You should not accept a LAHSO clearance if you believe doing so would compromise safety . Note : this does not necessarily apply to all situations where a student pilot is prohibited from doing something that a private pilot would be able to do .
There is no set legal limit ( ultimately it is up to the PIC to decide ) but condition reports are available to pilots at many airports to assist in assessing takeoff and landing performance . The FAA has recently created a standardized way of reporting runway conditions through their TALPA ( takeoff and landing performance assessment ) initiative . TALPA is an improved way of assessing runway conditions , based on contaminant type and depth , which provides an aircraft operator effective means to anticipate airplane braking performance . The RCAM ( shown below ) is the tool airport operators use to report a runway surface assessment when contaminants such as water , ice , snow , slush , and others are present on runways , taxiways , and aprons . To find an updated RCAM look in Chapter 5 of Advisory Circular 150/5200 -30 , Airport Field Condition Assessments and Winter Operation Safety . The RwyCC is the runway condition code -- as you can see a code of 0 yields minimal to non-existant braking and/or directional control . <URL>
Landowner 's permission is always required . Then check the municipal zoning regulations and the like - city , state regs etc. . Then your insurance company . If all these points come up green , go do it .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
There 's no tangible benefit to having a GROL in getting a pilots license of any kind as getting the license generally confers the right to use aircraft radios . In some places you need to get an RT license for aviation as a separate test , however that 's pretty minimal . A GROL is only good for repairing , maintaining , and running certain types of radio stations . An A&amp;P will let you work on airplanes , but it also does not help get a license . An A&amp;P will give you insights into how an airplane works , but you can get those insights without an A&amp;P . Having an A&amp;P and a pilots license might be a different story if you plan to work in remote locations where being able to fix your aircraft when it breaks is useful . It wo n't help you get a flying job in most places .
Yes <URL> <URL> ( 2002 ) <URL> ( 2002 ) JetBlue Airways is the first U.S. carrier to get approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to install video cameras on all its airplanes . JetBlue is a successful start-up carrier based at New York 's John F. International Kennedy airport . Soon after the Sept. 11 hijackings , the airline installed bullet-proof cockpit doors on all its planes . And it was the first carrier to match all luggage to passengers . The airline has outfitted one plane with the video surveillance system , and plans to have its 23 other jets equipped with the miniature cameras within the next few months . The cameras are positioned to cover the entire cabin . Some are visible , others are hidden so they can not be tampered with <URL> ( 2008 ) The European Union 's Security of Aircraft in the Future European Environment ( SAFEE ) project uses a camera in every passenger 's seat , with six wide-angle cameras to survey the aisles . Software then analyses the footage to detect developing terrorist activity or " air-rage " incidents , by tracking passengers ' facial expressions . <URL> ( 2012/2013 ? ) KID-Systeme has been selected to supply cabin surveillance equipment for the Airbus A350 XWB family of aircraft . The integrated solution will include both a cockpit door surveillance system ( CDSS ) and a cabin video monitoring system ( CVMS ) . The CDSS provides pilots with a clear view of anyone in the area of the cockpit door , enabling them to take the appropriate action when entry to the cockpit is requested . The CVMS allows both the pilots and the cabin crew to view passengers .
On Nov 12 at about 1845 UTC , which would be about 1215 local on Nov. 13 , a Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , took off from BLR and did several touch-and-go 's at VOBG then returned to BLR . On Nov. 10 , around the same time , another Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , did the same thing . Taking off from BLR , doing touch-and-go 's at VOBG before returning to BLR . According to <URL> @pondlife found , VOBG airport is open for pilot training .
end question
start question
How can a large passenger aircraft 's owner remain unknown ?
Every country handles aircraft registration differently ( but generally similar ) . Im sure Boeing could tell you who they originally delivered the airframe to but if it was sold from there it could legally go anywhere and would only be subject to local registration legislation . Here in the <URL> but not all countries may keep a record like that and as far as I know there is no global aircraft registry . it is still impossible to find actual aircraft 's owner in a matter of minutes Knowing who the owner is and finding the owner are two very different things . <URL> Several aviation databases list the Boeings -- identified by their call signs TF-ARN , TF-ARH , TF-ARM -- as belonging to leasing firm Air Atlanta Icelandic , but that company says it sold them in 2008 . Since then , the aircraft appear to have changed hands several times . Malaysia Airports says it 's entitled to sell the Boeings under the country 's civil aviation regulations if no owner comes forward . So it seems they do know who owned them at some point ( most likely the last people to put readable registration numbers on them ) .
Other than extra braking and reverse thrust , is there a specific short-field landing technique for large jet airliners ? Never heard of any . The required landing distance is calculated so that the plane can reliably stop ( even if reversers fail ) and landing at shorter runway is not allowed . so the 747s try to land right on the numbers , rather than the usual technique of touching down within the first third of the runway . The usual technique is to aim for 1,000 ft down the runway and touch down with some flare somewhere around 1,500 . In discussions about the famous landings at St Maarten , it is sometimes said that part of the reason for the low passes is due to the relatively short runway , so the 747s try to land right on the numbers Actually the <URL> runway 10 has PAPI and TDZ marking a little beyond the usual 1,000 ft mark at around 1,250 ft. <URL> the threshold is displaced 162 ft ( but it also says runway 9 , so it is likely out of date ) , but according to the satellite images it is a bit over 300 ft plus some runway end safety area , placing the threshold around 500 ft past the fence and the touch-down zone around 1,750 ft past the fence . Now the normal glide-slope is around 5 % . That means the aircraft is supposed to cross the fence at around 90 ft , on average . That seems about right . Of course you ca n't expect every aircraft to be positioned precisely within a few feet , so now and then some crosses it at maybe 50 ft. That is not intention , but simply a deviation . But of course the photos of planes flying especially low are more likely to be picked for publishing . Also , a short field landing normally calls for steep approach which make precise aim for landing spot easier . That would actually place the aircraft higher over the beach . But the glide-slope at TNCM is normal 3 ° ( 5 % ) one , so it is not a steep approach . Such a procedure is fine in a Cessna , but in a large passenger jet ? I have my doubts . In large jet it is n't . Air transport has stricter regulations than general aviation because more is at stake and larger aircraft have stricter limits because the higher energies involved mean errors are harder to fix and have more serious consequences .
Assuming that the pilots have tried everything possible and the gear just does not like to come down : The general rule is to find a long runway , touch down as slow as possible . Here are sections extracted from Boeing 777 's Flight Crew Training Manual : Dumping fuel If time and conditions permit , reduce weight as much as possible by burning off or jettisoning fuel to attain the slowest possible touchdown speed . Elevator After touchdown lower the nose gently before losing elevator effectiveness . Rudder At touchdown speed , the rudder has sufficient authority to provide directional control in most configurations . Speedbrakes ( ... ) speedbrakes should be extended only when stopping distance is critical . Extending the speedbrakes ( ... ) may compromise controllability of the airplane . Reverse Thrust ( ... ) an engine making ground contact could suffer sufficient damage such that the reverse mechanism may not operate . Selecting reverse thrust ( ... ) may produce an additional asymmetric condition that makes directional control more difficult . Reverse thrust should be used only when stopping distance is critical . Landing technique The technique varies with the combination of failure . If one side of the main gears is missing , land the plane to the side of runway which corresponds to the extended main gear . I.e. if the left gear is down and right gear is up , land on the left side of the runway instead of centerline . Maintain wings level for as long as possible , and be prepared to brake on the left side to maintain directional control . If all the gears decide to hide in the gears bay , land on centerline and use rudder to maintain directional control . Rudder is effective until airspeed drops too low . After landing Evacuate the aircraft as necessary !
This stopped after the World Trade Center attacks . You might be able to get a kid in briefly before the plane takes off .
Airbus used standard Intel 80186 and Motorola 68010 CPUs with 2.5 MiB of memory in the FBW system for A320 . Exactly the same chips that were used for computers at the time ( around 1985 ) so they were not expensive and were already tested . Over time they upgraded to newer version of those CPUs . Each computer is composed from two boards with different CPUs , one produces the control output and the other verifies it and shuts the unit down if they disagree . The boards run different standard embedded operating systems and the software was written by two independent teams to minimize risk of the same failure mode in both boards . Each board only does a little bit of work and the important units have backups . There are 4 units processing the sidestick input , 3 controlling elevator and ailerons , 3 controlling spoilers and elevator trim , IIRC 2 for yaw damper ( FAC ) , 2 for each engine digital control , 1 for each display etc. . The requirements did n't really increase much since then . It is still desired that the tasks are split across many independent boards to minimize effects of one of them failing . So a CPU with few MHz clock rate and few MB of memory would still be able to do the job . But such slow chips are not manufactured anymore , so they are probably using whatever was most common chips few years ago .
The FAA treats large airplanes the same as any other airplane when it comes to VFR flight . They are required to maintain the same distance from clouds , only fly with the same minimum visibility , see and avoid other aircraft , etc. . However , since only IFR flights are allowed above FL180 ( without a special exemption ) , and large turbine airplanes are terribly inefficient at low altitudes , so it does n't happen very often . In the US , Part 121 flights have the most restrictions of any of the operating rules , and they have multiple regulations relating to VFR flight , including this one1 : <URL> No person may dispatch or release an aircraft for VFR operation unless the ceiling and visibility en route , as indicated by available weather reports or forecasts , or any combination thereof , are and will remain at or above applicable VFR minimums until the aircraft arrives at the airport or airports specified in the dispatch or flight release . So yes , even if it is operated by a 121 carrier , they are allowed to fly VFR by the regulations . However , they must also comply with their Operations Specifications and Flight Operations Manuals which will have detailed procedures covering the conditions where it is allowed . Outside of 121 there are even fewer restrictions on VFR flight . 1 There is also : § 121.347 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes navigated by pilotage . § 121.349 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes not navigated by pilotage or for operations under IFR or over the top . § 121.649 - Takeoff and landing weather minimums : VFR : Domestic operations . § 121.667 - Flight plan : VFR and IFR : Supplemental operations .
I always track my flights , so here is my experience : App using offline maps As it has been said , you will need an app which can download maps prior to the flight . I never had a flight with onboard wifi , but I guess , there 's usually a data volume constraint , which could make it expensive . I use <URL> ( Android ) , which is an offline navigation system for cars etc. . The maps can be obtained from within the app , the user has the choice between free maps from the <URL> project and TomTom maps , which you have to pay . The maps can be downloaded per country , and big maps are subdivided into smaller pieces . For example , the very detailed map for Germany is divided into four parts , together about 0.8 GB of data . The entire USA can be downloaded per state , all together 1.7 GB . It 's possible to configure several fields at the bottom of the screen to display speed , altitude , GPS coordinates , distance to destination and so on . I mainly use this app to explore a country ( e.g. by car ) on vacation , but it 's also fun to use it on board to see what 's that location below us . You may switch off speed camera warning . I once got a warning over Switzerland . The 840km/h were well above the max speed limit of 120km/h , and the fine should have been in the order of seizing all property of the airline . For some reason , the pilot did n't care ... OK , lots of advantages , but there 's also a drawback : The app can not just record your flight , though a menu for tracking exists . Nor can it display your currently covered track . It can only record a track when it 's navigating you , but you do n't want to hear " turn around ! turn around ! " all the time ... Tracking app Again , there should be thousands of apps out there . I 'm using <URL> , which can also display your position / track on an online map . So , you just see a point moving on a gray screen while flying . However , this app allows to record your track , with up to one point per second , and at the end , you can export it as GPX file , which is the standard . It can be opened by many map tools , also by googles MyMaps or what it 's called . The file contains coordinates , precision , time , altitude , speed , number of satellites and course . One hint : This app makes a sanity check between speed reported by the GPS module and speed calculated from recorded points . If this fails , it does n't display/record any speed . This often happens onboard , so switch this check off . Here is a flight from Düsseldorf ( DUS ) to Las Palmas , Gran Canaria ( LPA ) , including altitude profile , drawn with Marble ( Linux KDE program ) : <URL> Precision An airliner is usually made of aluminum , which makes it a huge faraday 's cage . The reception of any radio waves is very limited ( through the windows ) , and so is GPS . And as GPS needs a line of sight to several satellites spread as much as possible over the entire sky , the only chance is to have a window seat . There , I usually get a very good GPS signal , while it 's already very bad to unusable on the next seat , and do n't even think about it on the aisle seat . Having a window seat , I usually get a good signal . While taxiing , the precision is quite good , as on this flight from Frankfurt ( FRA ) : <URL> Of course , the strength and accuracy of the GPS signal relies on the quality of the GPS module of your phone . My last phone was n't so good , I often had jumps of several 100m sidewards , or from 7000m to 10000m altitude . This is just because accuracy comes with the number of satellites , which usually increases with altitude . And : The first aim of GPS is to locate your position , the altitude usually is less important . With my current phone , I do n't see such problems . No sudden steps aside , and altitude and speed were quite the same as displayed on the entertainment system . Well , not entirely . I noticed my phone showing an altitude about 50m too high when landing on my last flight . The 20m shown by the entertainment system were plausible , as the airport was nearly on sea level / in the sea . But the too high altitude was still there , even at the beach . Keep in mind the earth is n't a sphere , it 's an ellipsoid , though even that 's not correct , it 's more like a potato . So , sea level is n't the same everywhere . High quality/price GPS receivers know this and contain data to compensate it , but cheap ones just use the ellipsoid model . ( However , 50m is nothing during flight , and what do you expect from a phone inside the cabin ... ) More hints For a working GPS , the receiver needs a list of all GPS satellites and their precise orbits ( " almanach " ) , current time and its rough position . If it does not have its rough position , it takes much more time to get a fix ( first GPS position ) . And if it does n't have a recent almanach , it has to listen to the satellites for a while , as they slowly broadcast it . As reception of radio signals is quite difficult inside the cabin , it may be very hard to get a fix , and even impossible to get the almanach . So , it 's good practice to prepare your phone before the flight , as
Airplanes are much more efficient , much faster and scale better . Helicopters are limited to around 150 knots because when flying forward the tip of the advancing blade must not exceed the speed of sound while the retreating blade must still move aft fast enough to produce lift . Helicopters are also difficult to make large , because for efficiency the rotor disk needs to be large , but the diameter is again limited by the tip speed having to remain subsonic . And the material requirements to make the blades strong enough without making them too large to keep drag low .
The number will vary depending on the aircraft type &amp; installed engines ( how much fuel it holds , and how much fuel it burns per hour at taxi speed ) , but the ballpark figure is " Much less than the range in flight " , because the specific fuel consumption figures ( how much power , and thus distance , you get per unit of fuel burned ) are less favorable during taxi than at cruise . To work an example I used the numbers for an A320 <URL> and not checked it burns 270-330kg / hr ( depending on the engines installed ) so let 's split the difference and say 300kg/hr as an average . The A320 can hold around 15,000 kg of fuel , so doing the division it could run its engines at taxi power for around 45 hours . If we assume a taxi speed of 20kts for 45 hours the aircraft could theoretically taxi 900 nautical miles ( 1036 statute miles , or 1667km ) , a little less than one-third of the range in flight .
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
Best case scenario : You 're straight and level , on frequency with some form of human being , there 's no immediate danger and you have the know-how to transmit . In that case , that human will provide you with everything they possibly can to help you . Most important thing for you to do is keep the aircraft away from clouds , away from terrain and not panic . You 'll probably be in an aircraft that is more-or-less easy to fly in this situation . Most GA aircraft are quite stable and will not be a beast to control . Once talking to ATC they will tell you to set your transponder to a number . You should find somewhere a 4-digit readout with a knob below/above each digit . Set the number indicated to help ATC identify you easily . Otherwise , look around you for big landmarks ( Mountains , Lakes , even a large Church/Cathedral ) as one of the first things ATC will want to do is work out where you are . That 's best case ; let 's look at some alternatives . You 're out of range of the tuned frequency on the radio , or there is no response : Tune 121.5 MHz , this is the <URL> . Someone will be monitoring this channel and be able to give you further advice - if nothing else a local ATC channel to tune . Failing this see if your pilot has a chart handy , he may have drawn his intended route on it - look along that route for anything that looks like a frequency to tune into the radio . Aircraft is climbing , or descending : Get the aircraft into safe , level flight . Remember controls work in the opposite sense to what you might expect ( probably not if you 've ever played any flight simulator ) . If the engine is roaring reduce power slightly . If you appear to be losing altitude with the nose on the horizon increase power slightly . Do everything with tiny incremental changes . Try not to fiddle too much with controls , only what is necessary . Aircraft is heading directly for a cloud/out to the sea/towards a heavily built up area/a big airport : Turn 180 degrees - do n't try to turn too quickly , it should take roughly 30 seconds to 1 minute to complete this turn . There are courses which are aimed at non-pilots who regularly fly in the right hand seat . Here 's some interesting reading : <URL>
This can be sensed by means of either an INS or GPS to determine a ground velocity and both the data from the pitot static system and a magnetometer to determine the true air velocity . The local wind velocity is the difference between the ground velocity and the true air velocity .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
I just saw BowlOfRed 's comment , and listened to it again and I could make it out this time as " Tug 1 and Company " . So , basically , when used with vehicles , using " and company " will often indicate that there 's more than one vehicle in the group ( or possibly aircraft in tow ) , and whoever 's being addressed is in charge of talking for them . Just like when a flight of aircraft is flying or taxing , whoever 's talking for the flight , that callsign is used for the whole group . For other examples of " and company " : During snowplow operations , usually you 'll just have 1 driver in a group talking to Ground/Tower for that group , and they 're also in charge of reporting when all their group is clear of runways or other movement areas . Other times , it 's when airport operations is escorting ( via vehicle ) other vehicles on the airport , from survey crews to construction crews .
The operating procedures for the four airlines I worked for ( 2 commuters and two 747 carriers ) all called for the flying pilot ( which would be the first officer if it was their leg ) to retain control of the airplane until all relevant checklists had been accomplished . That said , it is , of course , the captain 's prerogative to take control at any point . That would , I think , be very unwise to do in the case of an engine failure during takeoff unless the first officer was really screwing up . The greater workload in the 747 during emergency/abnormal procedures lies with the non-flying pilot and the flight engineer ( old 3 man cockpit 747-100s and -200 s ) . The recommended procedure at my last two airlines was , if the captain was flying at the time of the failure , to hand control to the first officer after all relevant checklists had been completed , to thus enable the captain to give his full attention to how best to proceed . My personal and observational experience is that there is little difference between captains and first officers at the 747 level insofar as control manipulation during go/no go situations on the runway in simulators . In fact , I could point you to an accident resulting in the total loss of a 747 when the flying pilot was the Captain , and he elected to abort 30 knots after $ V_1 $ , thus insuring the aircraft would leave the runway .
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
The torque in a helicopter is generated by the engine driving the main rotor in one direction , which causes the fuselage to spin in the other direction . The tail rotor shaft is horizontally mounted and hence creates it own ' lift ' to provide anti-torque . The pitch of the tail rotor gives directional control . Common ways to design a helicopter without a tail rotor : Tandem rotors : Two main rotors mounted one in front of the other . The rotor discs spin in opposite directions . All power from the engines is used for lift . Example : CH-47 Transverse rotors : Two main rotors mounted side-by-side . Example : Kamov Ka-22 Co-axial rotors : Two rotor discs are mounted one on top of the other . The engine units power both rotors . This structure requires a very complex swashplate mechanism . Example : Kamov Ka-25 Intermeshing rotors : In this main rotor assembly , the two set rotor masts are installed at a slight angle to each other , in a transversely symmetric manner , so that the rotor blades intermesh without colliding with each other . Example : Kaman K-MAX Tip jet : This is an interesting solution to the no-tail-rotor problem . Instead of driving the rotors with a turboshaft engine , compressed air is sent through nozzles installed at the tips of rotor blades . The engines effectively push against the air rather than the helicopter fuselage . The rotor spins just like a Catherine wheel . Example : Hiller Hornet NOTAR : NOTAR - NO TAil Rotor uses a fan inside the boom to build a high volume of low-pressure air , which exits through two slots and creates a boundary layer flow of air along the tailboom utilizing the Coandă effect . The boundary layer changes the direction of airflow around the tailboom , creating thrust opposite the motion imparted to the fuselage by the torque effect of the main rotor . Example : MD-900 Refer to <URL> for more !
It has happened before . There are definite cases of light civilian aircraft landing on a carrier , the most well known was in April 1975 when South Vietnamese Air Force Major Buang Lee landed an O-1 Bird Dog on the deck of the USS Midway trying to escape with his wife and 5 children from the fall of Saigon to North Vietnamese forces . Landing aboard an aircraft carrier presents several difficulties , namely limited landing roll and available deck space . A Nimitz Class carrier is just shy of 1100 feet in total length and 250 ft at its widest point . The designated landing area or LA is approx 75 x 650 ft. The ship is capable of steaming at 30 + kts so it can develop quite a bit of wind over the flight deck reducing the effective unarrested landing roll . Then you need to stop the aircraft once it 's on the deck . Carrier based fixed wing jets use tailhooks designed to work with the arresting gear and reduce the landing roll to about 330 feet . The largest carrier aircraft in service were the Douglas A-3 and the Grumman C-2 and E-2 , each one about the size of a regional jet . The largest aircraft which I am aware of which made a successful unarrested landing was a Lockheed C-130 . Large commercial aircraft like a Boeing 747 or an Airbus A-380 simply can not fit on the deck without the wings clipping the island or other deck antennas , etc , not to mention requiring landing rolls of over 3000 ft even in the most extreme short field attempts . So HAS a carrier aided a civilian passenger flight via recovery operations ? Yes but only with small aircraft . COULD a carrier aid in recovering larger commercial aircraft ? Possible depending on the size of the aircraft , its loadout and fuel state and performance capabilities .
Basic flying rules require the pilot to be able , at any time : to maintain the aircraft safe attitude , to avoid other aircraft and obstacles , to know where he/she is , to find their way to the landing aerodrome . Does the pilot need to see outside ? It depends ... Any of these tasks are possible with viewing the environment . A trained pilot in an aircraft with the appropriate equipment , with the appropriate support and equipment on the ground , can also perform any of these tasks without seeing anything outside the aircraft . VMC vs. IMC There is a set of minimum conditions to declare that the outside environment is visible : these conditions are known as <URL> ( VMC ) . When VMC are not achieved , the conditions are said to be IMC , for <URL> . VFR vs. IFR Any flight must be done under one of the two existing set of rules : <URL> ( VFR ) <URL> ( IFR ) . The rules to be followed are dictated by regulation and are directly dependent on the meteorological conditions . In VMC : A VFR flight is allowed . A pilot may elect to fly IFR , at convenience . In IMC : You must use IFR , but you have to be allowed to do that . The aircraft must be certified for IFR . ( For the sake of completeness , a <URL> flight may be allowed while under IMC ) . What we said so far is : a pilot may fly without visibility ( IMC ) , but to do that must be trained and allowed , must follow IFR , and the aircraft must be certified for IFR . Landing without visibility , source : <URL> . Which instruments are required to fly IFR ? Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to maintain a safe attitude of the aircraft , e.g. ( left-to-right , top-to-bottom ) <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . <URL> Main instruments , source : <URL> Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to navigate , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , documentation on-board . ILS principle , source : <URL> Some equipment is required to be interlocked with <URL> ( ATC ) , e.g. radio , <URL> . Typical ATC room , source : <URL> See also : <URL> Some equipment may be required to avoid collision and accidents into terrain , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . IFR flying aircrafts are separated by ATC , to help the pilot to avoid other aircraft . TCAS , source : <URL> Most of the commercial airliners fly under IFR , regardless of the conditions . In addition they have a <URL> . Try to fly IFR with <URL> .
Wings are static . The wings do not move in response to emergency door opening . There is no requirement regarding position of flaps , in most cases involving an emergency evacuation after landing , flaps are likely to be extended , but I do n't think this is guaranteed . Evacuation assistance On commercial transport aircraft , there are marked routes on the wing for passengers and , if the exit point is more than 6ft from the ground , there are self-inflating slides that allow passengers to reach the ground . <URL> Image from <URL> Evacuation on water The inflated slides also work as life-rafts in the event that the aircraft comes to rest in water and has to be evacuated . Generally this applies only to slides at main exits , over-wing exits have slides that are not designed to be used in this way . <URL> <URL> Regulations The <URL> say Each passenger-carrying landplane emergency exit ( other than over-the-wing ) that is more that 6 feet from the ground with the airplane on the ground and the landing gear extended must have an approved means to assist the occupants in descending to the ground . The manufacturer must demonstrate that they can evacuate all passengers and crew to the ground within 90 seconds using only half the emergency exits . This applies to aircraft capable of carrying more than 44 passengers . Variations in arrangements by aircraft Not all aircraft need overwing exits and slides . Here are some B757 variants <URL> <URL> <URL> From <URL> Boeing 737 As commenters have noted , the 737 does not have self-inflating slides for its over-wing exits . <URL> <URL> The 737 system does not always work very well Passengers climbed onto both wings , which were slippery due to the rain , but were able to see the markings indicating the direction of movement . It was difficult to see the ground in the dark and some passengers were not aware that they should slide down the flap surfaces . Others expected to find an escape slide . On the left wing , some passengers slid down onto the ground and assisted others . On the right wing , fewer people slid down to the ground , while others re‑entered the cabin and exited it using door escape slides when it was apparent that there were no visible signs of danger . - from <URL>
end question
start question
Are commercial pilots incentivized to reduce fuel consumption ?
There have been , at various times , and with various carriers , incentive programs set up to encourage pilots to save fuel , improve on-time performance , or some combination of the two . An example of a fuel-saving incentives program existed at the former Continental Airlines in the early 90s , where pilots would be paid a bonus for using less fuel than planned . The problem was that it wreaked havoc with the schedule itself , as pilots would simply dial back to economy cruise thrust settings , saving fuel but taking noticeably longer to reach their destinations . An example of an actual-vs-scheduled block incentive program intended to help with on-time performance existed at Silver Airways in their Beech 1900D fleet , whereby pilots would be paid a bonus for each minute they were able to shave off a baseline target time . Ironically enough , it was called the " Green Incentive Program " ( do n't ask ) . And it was a can of worms . I vaguely remember other airlines experimenting with incentives programs relating to fuel consumption and on-time performance , but it 's been several years since I left the industry and ca n't recall any other examples . In short , yes they do get implemented fairly regularly , but they can be very problematic due to the difficulty in properly designing and managing them ( incentivization is a complex problem ) . Lastly , since another poster has brought this up , dispatchers do indeed perform most , if not all the flight planning , but the PIC ( i.e. Captain of the flight ) has the option of overriding most everything the dispatcher plans and arranges for ( subject to the carrier 's Operational Specifications ) , including amount of fuel to be carried . Basically , if the Captain decides that the plane is to be filled with as much fuel as it can carry up to MTOW , that 's what 's going to happen . Might not be the most business-savvy ( or even prudent ) decision , but it 's part of their prerogative as PIC ( i.e. the person ultimately responsible for the craft , crew , passengers , and goods onboard ) .
For a non-commercial flight under Part 91 rules there are no issues I 'm aware of with letting a non-rated passenger handle the controls - and it 's done quite frequently ( I ca n't think of any pilots I know offhand who have n't had someone else take the controls for one reason or another ) . The rated pilot is still pilot-in-command of the flight and ultimately responsible for everything that happens , so they need to be relatively certain their friend will let go of the controls if told to do so , and they need to maintain situational awareness ( traffic scan , airspace , etc. -- if the friend blunders into Class B airspace it 's going to land in the pilot 's lap ) and be ready to take over if the friend starts doing something that could jeopardize the safety of the flight . There are some common-sense limits here : something insane like have two non-rated friends at the controls the rated pilot being PIC from the back seat giving them instructions over the intercom would be a no-go . Similarly while this sort of thing is a total non-event in an aircraft with typical dual controls you would probably want to have a higher level of trust in your friend if you 're flying something with a throw-over yoke .
The first figure , 1 litre per mile , is very wrong . The second , 39 to start , is most probably the fuel required for a warm up from a cold start . The Abrams tank weighs <URL> tonnes , so you wo n't get 1 mile on a litre . Its fuel consumption is quoted as <URL> , or 1.66 gallons per mile , which is 6.3 litres per mile . Quite a difference . The engine is the Honeywell ( previously Lycoming ) <URL> . It has a two spool gas generator , with a two stage power turbine . It features a heat exchanger through which the HPC exit air flows , to preheat it from the exhaust gas , prior to combustion , to improve engine efficiency . The engine has a <URL> that keeps it running at <URL> so that it can rapidly accelerate from a stationary position if needed to avoid or engage a hostile force . In tactical idle it consumes 30 + gallons per hour , instead of 10 at the non tactical idle setting . It 's <URL> that " in 1990 , Project on Government Oversight in a report criticized the M1 's high costs and low fuel efficiency in comparison with other tanks of similar power and effectiveness such as the Leopard 2 . The report was based on data from U.S. Army sources and the Congressional record . " Some critics say the tank fuel consumption is so poor , that in combat , it has to often wait for the fuel supply logistics to catch up . Other reports <URL> ( See paragraph at the very top of the page ) . The M1 Abrams was <URL> after a competition in June 1973 , between the Chrysler Corporation and the Detroit Diesel Allison Division of the General Motors Corporation to build prototypes of a new tank designated M1 , and later named the Abrams tank . In November 1976 , it was announced Chrysler won the competition . The M1 was faster and more maneuverable than its predecessors in the M60 series , while offering a lower , smaller silhouette . Besides the substantial gains in performance , the Textron Lycoming AGT-1500 turbine engine was far more reliable than the diesel tank engines then in use with the Army . There was still another benefit . The engine change , despite a penalty in fuel consumption , also resulted in much quieter operation , so much so that soldiers encountering the tank in early maneuvers started calling it " Whispering Death " . The Abrams <URL> also states a figure of 6.3 liters per mile , and also states the value of 38 liters to start . As suggested by user3528438 ( thank you ) , the 39 litres ( 10 US gallons ) is quite probably the fuel required to complete a warm up from a cold start . At the tactical idle setting , this would be the fuel consumed in about 15 to 20 minutes .
Fuel flow is measured by flow transducers in line with the fuel pipes . And they do a very good job at measuring flow , but unfortunately a fuel leak bypasses them . There is no direct measurement of the leak flow anywhere . The pilots of Air Transat 236 had two indications of the fuel leak : Increased fuel flow through the oil/fuel heat exchanger caused a drop in oil temperature and a corresponding increase in oil pressure . Drained fuel on the leaky side caused a fuel imbalance . It would only be possible to positively identify increased flow as a leak if the leak occurs in between two flow transducers , both mounted in the same fuel line . If the leak occurs after a single transducer , the increased flow gives an indication . Otherwise , the leak flow would have to be observed from available volume , minus legitimately used engine flow . There are fuel tank probes distributed in airliner fuel tanks that give an indication of fuel volume per tank . Picture below shows the six fuel probes in the 747 centre tank ( <URL> ) . <URL> The difficulty here is that leak flow must be derived from volume measurement : unit of flow is $ m ^ 3 $ / sec , the derivative of volume . The wing tanks are long and flat and the probes measure vertical distance , with an accuracy that suffices for Qty indication but lacks the precision of the fuel flow meters which directly measure impulse of the mass flowing through them . Plus they measure mass directly , a more useful entity than volume . Volume per mass changes with fuel temperature , tank levels change with aircraft pitch and roll , the level needs to be derived over time : all of this can only give an indication over the course of hours , when a large amount of fuel has leaked out already , and with a degree of uncertainty that would leave room for doubt . You 're right though , in wondering why there seemed to be no automated way for monitoring discrepancies in fuel quantity . @Waked mentions the estimation messages of the B737NG , which would also only seem to occur after much fuel has been lost aready . The A330 now has an ECAM caution message : FUEL FU/FOB DISCREPANCY , put <URL> the Air Transat incident . Lessons learned from this incident would now be incorporated in the fuel management systems and aircrew procedures . The brilliant glide flight of the pilots demonstrates once again why we need pilots in front of the aeroplane .
Some modern airliners have a place where the flight number can be displayed on the cockpit displays . This information can be entered off the dispatch paperwork when setting up the flight plan , and is displayed throughout the flight for easy reference . For example , you can make out " DLH463 " on the screen at the bottom right of <URL> , corresponding to Lufthansa flight 463 . The Boeing 787 <URL> : The two outboard displays are a fixed format that provides primary flight display information combined with an " auxiliary " display that consolidates frequently referenced information for the crew , such as flight number , each pilot 's microphone-selected radio and its frequency , and transponder code . You can see this on <URL> at the top of the leftmost monitor : " FLT - > BAW787 " ( Photos not embedded due to licensing restrictions . )
An airliner experiencing an engine fire might dump fuel , but not to starve the engine . That is much more easily accomplished by simply shutting down the fuel pumps to that engine , which would be a first-line firefighting technique as it 's the most economical and the most likely to allow for a restart ( less maintenance is required on an engine that 's simply shut down versus one that 's been doused with chemical suppressors , and those same chemical suppressors might extinguish the fire but would also inhibit relighting it ) . There are several redundant fuel shutoff systems in most airliners , from the fuel pumps themselves to actual shutoff valves in the fuel lines in case the pumps themselves are the failure point . Any failure that would completely prevent the crew shutting off the fuel supply to a damaged engine would likely create much more immediate problems , like severe structural damage to the wing or fuselage of the aircraft . All of these shutoffs in addition to active fire suppression systems such as chemical extinguishers are under the flight crew 's manual control ; an engine on fire is usually still producing at least some thrust , which may be more important than extinguishing the fire in certain critical phases of flight . The plane is more likely to dump fuel if it 's close to its departure airport when the emergency occurs . In such a scenario , the aircraft is likely above its maximum landing weight ( which is less than the max takeoff weight as the forces on the landing gear and the runway are less on takeoff than for landing and the plane is expected to burn most of its fuel weight by the time it gets where it 's going ) , and therefore the fuel dump is simply to reduce the aircraft 's weight for an emergency landing , so the landing gear does n't collapse on touchdown . Additionally , if anything else goes wrong during the landing , dumping fuel would leave the plane with as little fuel as possible to minimize the spread or intensity of a fire on the ground , which can impede or prevent escape from the plane . However , fuel dumps from commercial aircraft are rare , used in situations where the necessity of dumping fuel to land safely and spare the passengers outweighs the financial costs of losing the fuel and the environmental costs of cleaning up the spill .
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
The short answer is yes , they are definitely expected to listen and act accordingly . This is one example of <URL> in aviation , and pilots are expected to use all useful information sources to maintain awareness of what 's going on around them . A nice example is <URL> where the crew of a US Airways aircraft avoided an accident . There was heavy fog at the airport , and while the US Airways flight was waiting for takeoff clearance a United aircraft ended up on a runway instead of a taxiway . The controller could n't see the runways because of the fog and she believed the United aircraft was on a taxiway , so she gave the US Airways flight clearance to take off even though the United pilot said several times that they were on a runway . The US Airways pilot had heard the discussion ( actually , almost a debate ) between the controller and the United pilot , and he refused the takeoff clearance because he was n't confident that the situation was under control . It 's well worth watching the whole thing , but the key exchange is this : ATC : [ ... ] USAir 2998 , runway 5R , fly runway heading , cleared for takeoff US2998 : Uh , tower , USAir 2998 , 'til we figure out what 's going on down there , we 're just gon na stay clear of all runways This level of awareness is expected of all pilots , including light aircraft pilots at uncontrolled fields . Although in that situation there 's the additional complication that there may be aircraft around that do n't even have radios !
" We know that most of the plane accidents and deaths result from the explosion of fuel tanks in the planes " This is a fallacy . Most deaths do n't happen because of explosions , but because of impact damage , fire , and inhalation of toxic fumes ( in no particular order ) . Next to that , many people tend to get killed because they are crushed by fellow passengers during evacuations . And some die on the ground being run over by emergency vehicles or from environmental conditions ( heat , cold , wildlife ) . Ratchet Freak correctly points out why your " solutions " wo n't work ( in fact one of them will make the problems worse ) . And yes , research is being done and has been done . Modern jet fuel has a much higher flame point and vapour pressure than does regular gasoline as a result . Fuel tanks are fitted with baffles and sometimes coolers to keep the fuel liquid so it does n't explode easily . This is in part a result of what happened to TWA800 , one of the very few accidents to be caused by a fuel tank explosion ( and there the explosion was itself only possible due to a combination of rare circumstances and chance events , made worse by maintenance problems with the aircraft ) . The image of aircraft ( and cars , trains , ships , buildings , anything really ) blowing up in a wall of flame at the least trouble is one created and perpetuated by Hollywood and has no reflection in reality whatsoever .
Guiding is called <URL> and can be requested . A follow-me car can also be used to guide the plane . In some airports the follow-me car is <URL> , as well as its fees . By Frank Schwichtenberg ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> In most cases the pilots use charts . Either paper or electronic . Some electronic charts offer a moving map feature , whereby the crew can see their position on the map . Lastly , there 's the new follow-the-greens ( <URL> ) method , in which the ATC programs the taxi route and the crew are then guided by smart green lights . Follow-the-greens cockpit video / ATC audio in Singapore Changi can be <URL> . In all cases , except for follow-the-greens , the route is given . Runway [ number ] , taxi via [ route ] . ( USA . ) Taxi to holding point [ number ] runway [ number ] via [ route ] . ( Europe and elsewhere . ) It 's worth mentioning that the taxiways are marked by <URL> as well . By Bin im Garten ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL>
It 's a good question . Estimations of 120 kg weight savings of compressed air in the tyres have been made , that is not inconsiderable . A detailed estimation with dimensions from <URL> . The B777-300 has tyres size 52 X 21 R 22 : 52 is outside diameter in inches = 1.32 m 21 is tyre wide in inches = 0.53 m 22 is rim diameter in inches = 0.56 m Side area of the tyre itself = $ \ frac { \ pi } { 4 } ( 1.32 ^ 2 - 0.56 ^ 2 ) $ = 1.23 m $ ^ 2 $ . Volume of the tyre = side area * width = 1.23 * 0.53 = 0.65 m $ ^ 3 $ . The B777 has 12 of these wheels so total tyre volume = 7.8 m $ ^ 3 $ . Air at 1 bar pressure = 1.225 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ . Twelve wheels at 16 bar contain 7.8 * 1.225 * 16 = 153 kg of air . Weight savings in the order of magnitude of 150 kg , every trip for two to three decades , are nothing to sneeze at . Consider it the other way around : how sane would a person be if they would propose to put an extra 150 kg permanently on board because the extra fuel would be inconsequential ? To re-inflate the tyres , all infrastructure is on board already : jet engine final compressor stage pressure is definitely higher than the required 16 bar . From Rollys Royce The Jet Engine issue 5 : <URL> After cooling off from 700C - 1000K , to 30C = 300K , that is in the order of magnitude of the required air pressure for re-inflating the tyres . So technically , all is possible . The tyres can be re-inflated with existing infrastructure on board . Of course not with the existing unmodified infrastructure as it is now , it will need to be tweaked , but order of magnitude wise everything is on board already . Tweaking a tyre pressure inflator in the 21st century is a much simpler task than inventing the first autopilot in 1930 . I mean come on guys . Aluminium 1inch tubing weighs about a kilo a meter , and the engines are very close the wheels . 10 m extra tubing would be a lot . The hydraulic oil has a heat exchanger with the fuel in the wing , which is super cold just before landing , having spent all this time at -30 C. Let 's say that the total re-inflation installation weighs 30 kg tops . Where the whole idea falls apart is in the safety aspects . We 're approaching an airport with low fuel reserves and with flat tyres , too many things can go wrong and Murphy pops his head up from every corner . The undercarriage is a considerable weight and contributes virtually nothing to the flying and economic capabilities of the aircraft , but we better make sure that it pops out every time and can cushion the last stage of flight before all passengers can get safely off board . In air passenger transport , if safety needs to compete with economics , safety wins every time . @mikerodent suggests in a deleted post that the tyres could be filled with helium . Not a bad suggestion actually : helium weighs 0.164 kg/m3 , weight saving for the B777-300 is 132 kg and the tyre does not need to be re-inflated . The answer deserves to be undeleted and accepted .
To put it short : no . Unfortunately it might even take a while for anyone to notice both pilots are out . Most likely the first would be an air traffic controller since he/she could n't reach the pilots on radio . If the cabin attendants find both pilots incapacitated , they would most likely try to find a doctor or nurse to help recover a pilot try to find if any of the passengers was a pilot
Yes , they do . They are called Anti-Skid and they go from Mark I of 1948 , with simply an on-off switch triggered by wheel lock , till Mark V ( or at least that 's the last I 've seen ) , with quite complex control systems and sensors behind . The full details are a bit long to include them all here ( there are <URL> ) . For a brief overview , see <URL> from slide 12 till 18 .
Before the turn of the century ( I ca n't believe I 'm using that phrase , as I retired in 1999 ) and especially back when all 3 engine and 4 engine airliners had a flight engineer , the usual career path at many airlines was to hire in as an Flight Engineer , or FE ( two stripes ) , progress to an First Officer , or FO ( three stripes ) , and then become a captain ( four stripes ) . This all began to change , of course , with the advent of large 2-man cockpit aircraft . The change was not without controversy and some pain . For example , at least one initial operator of the 737 ran a 3-man cockpit for a time . The 3rd guy was , as I remember , referred to as the GIB ( guy in back ) . He sat in the jumpseat and read the checklists , which was one of the tasks an FE typically had in 3-man cockpits . As it happened , the two jet carriers I worked for hired pilots into the FO seat and used professional FEs . I spent a couple of years on the 727 and then 10 years on the 747 . During that time , every FE save one that I flew with was ex-military , and with few exceptions all were A&amp;P s . That was desirable in case a maintenance sign off was needed when you were someplace where maintenance was not otherwise available . Occasionally you would encounter an FE who had been a captain . The pilots were required to retire at 60 back then , but FEs were n't . I only knew one such individual , and I always liked flying with him . The more expertise you have in the cockpit , the better . In the two 747 carriers I worked for , an FE would sometimes transition to the FO seat , but that was relatively rare , and the costs were typically the individual 's to bear . Interestingly , when I retired in 1999 , I had flown with an ex-military FE who years later became the chief pilot of the airline involved .
For many medium and large sized jets the maximum gross takeoff weight is higher than the maximum landing weight . If the airplane has an emergency that requires an air return or other landing in the early part of flight , it is very likely overweight for landing . The plane has 3 options at this point : Land overweight Dump fuel ( if able ) Fly around at low altitude and high power to burn fuel For some airplanes , option 2 is not available . This includes airplanes that are not equipped to dump fuel ( not all airplanes have this capability or have the capability under MEL ) or are not approved to dump fuel at their current location and altitude . For these airplanes , only option 1 and 3 are available . The choice between option 1 and 2/3 comes down to what kind of emergency it is . If you have to be on the ground now , you wo n't care about being overweight , and will just put it down . If you have time and landing now is n't a priority , then you would choose to dump or burn fuel . If an airplane chooses to dump , they will generally choose one of two values of remaining fuel : fuel such that they land at the maximum landing weight absolute minimum safe fuel to land This choice comes down to how likely the landing will end in an accident . If you are sure the landing will be a non-event ( e.g. air return for anti-ice failure ) then you 'll likely just dump until landing wont be overweight . Conversely , if you have a control issue or something that may end badly , you want minimum fuel to lessen the potential for fire . In these cases the ARFF crew will spray the runway with foam to assist in reducing the fire potential .
In a typical trainer aircraft ( in this case , a C172 ) , you have an annunciator panel that includes a " Low Fuel " light : <URL> These lights only come on when fuel is low if the lights are functioning properly . This panel is located prominently , and is easy to notice . This is only one aircraft , but when you consider it is an entry level aircraft that is less sophisticated , it gives a baseline idea of what you could expect to see . Also , there are fuel gauges displayed with all engine instruments that will indicate accordingly . While this is n't a leak detector , pilots are trained to monitor all instruments regularly and cross check the values - which is how a leak is identified in aircraft with low amounts of technology . It is worth noting that checking the " LOW FUEL " annunciator is off is a regular checklist item that occurs before you start your actual flight . As GdD mentions in the comments - you are taught not to rely on any one instrument indication , and panel lights are no exception .
Terminology first : Trim drag is the drag component added by adjusting the incidence of the horizontal tail rsp . the deflection angle of the elevator for trim . The increased parasitic drag of a larger tail surface itself is already part of the aircraft 's zero-lift drag . Sizing criteria for tail surfaces The horizontal stabilizer surface must be dimensioned with these criteria in mind : Sufficient control power at the most forward cg location over the whole speed range . Sufficient control power at the most forward cg location over all load factors ( including pitch damping effects ) . Sufficient control power when flaring in ground effect ( which reduces elevator effectivity ) For T-tail configurations : Sufficient control power over all sideslip angles . Sideslip produces a strong pitch-down moment in T-tail configurations . For gliders : Sufficient compensation for the force of the tow line , both at the beginning of a winch launch ( tow line horizontal ) and at the end ( tow line vertical ) . The other criteria ( upper and lower limits on stick force gradients over speed and load factor ) can be tailored with elevator chord , so the horizontal tail surface is not directly affected . In the end your horizontal tail will be as large as you want your cg range to be wide . Operators like wide cg ranges , so the small drag penalty of a bigger tail surface might be worth it . Wing airfoil Also , wing airfoils with a high pitching moment ( think rear loading , i.e. high camber in the rear part ) will need a bigger tail surface due to the larger shift of the center of pressure over speed , but have less drag and a higher maximum lift than comparable , old-fashioned airfoils ( think NACA 4-digit range ) , so the wing can be smaller and has less drag , which easily compensates for the increased tail surface . Do not optimize each surface separately If your wing has already an optimized lift distribution , adding more lift in the same <URL> will spoil the end result . In the end , it does not make much of a difference at which position in streamwise direction lift is created , only the sum of it counts . Therefore , it might be better to have as little tail loading as possible in the design point . If you take the mass of the wing structure in consideration , your optimum lift distribution over the wingspan will <URL> , and now it might even make sense to create a small downforce on the tail to reduce the downwash angle in the center section . A lighter wing will require less lift and help to reduce drag . Think of it this way : The triangular lift distribution produces a higher downwash angle at the tail , and any downforce there would actually point slightly forward , creating induced thrust . Effectively , it helps to equalize downwash over span in the Treffz plane of wing and tail .
If fuel contamination is suspected ( because of engine control system fault indications , slow engine responses or rapid engine pressure ratio ( EPR ) fluctuations ) , there is an associated checklist procedure to followed which can confirm the contamination : Fuel contamination checklist as posted by " 330 skipper " at Nov 24th 2017 13:47 Z <URL> : If ENG 1 ( 2 ) CTL SYS FAULT alert triggered associated with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE , and with rapid and continuous EPR fluctuation indications on both engines : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... OFF If EPR fluctuations stop on both engines : ECAM PROC ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... APPLY A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... KEEP OFF If EPR fluctuations continue on both engines : FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If ENG 1 CTL SYS FAULT and ENG 2 CTL SYS FAULT alerts triggered with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . OFF FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If fuel contamination confirmed : LAND ASAP <URL> In addition , the Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) has the following procedure to be followed if fuel contamination is confirmed : <URL> Special thanks to <URL> for providing the images of the procedure and the FCOM
There are three common ways to send a distress signal ( roughly in order of preference ) : Over the radio , to whoever you are currently talking to . Key the microphone and announce to the world , the flight 's callsign , and a description of the emergency . This is generally the way an emergency is declared , particularly for commercial ( airline ) service , as they 're generally always in contact with an ATC facility Over the radio , to anyone monitoring the " emergency " frequency . The VHF frequency 121.5 MHz is reserved for aircraft emergency communication . It is monitored at most air traffic control facilities , as well as by many airliners and other pilots with multiple radios in their aircraft . If you 're not able to make contact with the facility you 're currently talking to in ( 1 ) above ( or if you 're not currently talking to an ATC facility ) . Using the aircraft 's transponder . Three transponder codes are reserved for unusual/emergency situations : for general emergencies for loss of communication ( radio failure ) for hijacking or other unlawful interference All of these transponder codes alter the way the aircraft 's radar target is displayed , to alert the controller to the possible problem ( exactly how the display is modified depends on the radar equipment the controller has , and can range from additional text in the data block , like ( RaDiO Failure ) for code to changing the color of the displayed block on newer systems . <URL> , and more information is available <URL> , though you 'll have to dig through a few referenced documents to put it all together . Note that sometimes the order of preference changes - For example if a pilot is being threatened by a hijacker they may quietly set their transponder code to 7500 without saying anything on the radio to alert the hijacker .
There is no limit to the number of type ratings that a person can hold . The <URL> for most type ratings held by an individual currently stands at 100 ! For safety reasons , most airlines only allow a pilot to be currently assigned to two aircraft types at one time so that they do n't start to confuse the different airplanes and mix things up . This is n't a regulation though , at least in the US . In your example , those airplanes are the same type so would only count as one of the two that they could be assigned to , but this will vary based on individual airline policy and the complexity of the differences between the actual aircraft involved .
end question
start question
Why ca n't jet engines operate with supersonic air and how do they slow it down ?
To avoid shock waves on the compressor blades which would make the engine unusable both because of the very large pressure fluctuations that would cause fatigue and failure of blades , and because of the high level of drag that is developed in supersonic flows that would have the effect of slowing the blades down as they rotated . In fact the engine just would n't run with a supersonic flow going into it . Also the flow needs to be slowed down as much as possible to allow enough time in the combustion chamber for the fuel to burn completely . So ... a cone or ramp shape at the inlet is used to create a little shockwave in front of the engine slowing down the oncoming air to subsonic speeds and allowing the jet engine to operate efficiently . A ramjet is able to use the compressed air because it is designed to do so . An excellent case study is the SR-71 Blackbird , which had engine cones that moved forward and backward based on speed/altitude , to transition from a turbine to a ramjet mission profile . ( Fun fact : That plane is so darned fast that the limit to it 's speed comes not from engine power , but from MELTING THE PLANE because it is going so fast . ) The SR-71 had " Bypass doors " to close of the main turbine of the engine when operating on a ramjet profile . A ramjet , sometimes referred to as a flying stovepipe or an athodyd , is a form of airbreathing jet engine that uses the engine 's forward motion to compress incoming air without a rotary compressor . Ramjets can not produce thrust at zero airspeed ; they can not move an aircraft from a standstill . A ramjet powered vehicle , therefore , requires an assisted take off like a JATO to accelerate it to a speed where it begins to produce thrust . Ramjets work most efficiently at supersonic speeds around Mach 3 . This type of engine can operate up to speeds of Mach 6 . A scramjet is a variant of a ramjet airbreathing jet engine in which combustion takes place in supersonic airflow . As in ramjets , a scramjet relies on high vehicle speed to forcefully compress the incoming air before combustion , but a ramjet decelerates the air to subsonic velocities before combustion , while airflow in a scramjet is supersonic throughout the entire engine . This allows the scramjet to operate efficiently at extremely high speeds : theoretical projections place the top speed of a scramjet between Mach 12 and Mach 24 .
Thrust is air mass flow multiplied by the speed difference between flight and nozzle speed of the engine . To increase thrust , subsonic engines try to maximize mass flow ( by increasing the bypass ratio ) while supersonic engines rely more on increasing the nozzle speed ( by using afterburners ) . The core engines do not differ much - after all , the intake will make sure that air reaches the engine <URL> , regardless of flight speed . The main difference is in their bypass ratio . The slower the design speed , the bigger the bypass ratio may become . At very low speed , the ungeared , shrouded fan is exchanged for a geared , free spinning propeller , in other words , the jet changes to a turboprop . The intake and nozzle , however , are very different indeed . The optimum bypass ratio changes continuously , but since the drag coefficient drops after crossing Mach 1 , airplanes are either designed for a maximum Mach number of 0.9 or less , or 1.6 and above . The corresponding bypass ratios today are up to 12 for subsonic engines , and less than 1 for supersonic engines . This produces a sharp boundary at the speed of sound , and many military engines designed for supersonic flight lost their afterburners and were fitted with a big fan to become the engines for subsonic transport aircraft . Examples are : The <URL> turbojet ( installed in the F-100 and F-102 fighters , among others ) became the JT-3D turbofan which powered the Boeing 707 or the DC-8 . The core of the <URL> ( installed in the F-15 and F-16 fighters , among others ) became the <URL> turbofan which is used in the Boeing 737 or the Airbus A320 . The differences between sub - and supersonic engines grow bigger the more you move away from their core . High-pressure compressor , combustion chamber and high pressure turbine look and work the same , but the low pressure compressor of subsonic engines swallows a lot more air and has a much bigger diameter . Supersonic engines in turn mostly have an afterburner . The biggest difference , however , are the intakes ( large pitot intake with <URL> for subsonic aircraft versus adjustable <URL> for supersonic flight ) and the nozzle ( fixed for subsonic flight versus a complex , <URL> for supersonic flight ) . This is due to the very different air speeds and the much higher exit velocities required for supersonic flight .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
It 's an illusion that the blades appear to be going slowly . It 's actually a well known effect called the <URL> . Essentially the rotor is spinning at close to an even multiple of the camera 's framerate divided by the number of rotors . This means that between frames the blades have moved a full quarter rotation ( or a multiple of that ) . Creating the illusion that the rotor is moving more slowly that it actually is .
It is a pitot intake , and the round shape makes the intake tube lighter . It is a pressure vessel , after all , because the intake converts flow speed into pressure and slows the flow of air to the engines down to approximately half of the speed of sound . Placing the intake squarely at the side would make them less efficient ( a classic example for this would be the <URL> ) . The bulging fuselage above effects a pre-compression of the flow at supersonic speed , especially at higher angle of attack when thrust is needed most . To put them together under the fuselage ( <URL> style ) would cause interference in single-engine mode and would require a higher landing gear . The chosen shape is the best compromise for a lightweight and efficient intake for a two-engined aircraft .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
Thrust is air mass flow multiplied by the speed difference between flight and nozzle speed of the engine . To increase thrust , subsonic engines try to maximize mass flow ( by increasing the bypass ratio ) while supersonic engines rely more on increasing the nozzle speed ( by using afterburners ) . The core engines do not differ much - after all , the intake will make sure that air reaches the engine <URL> , regardless of flight speed . The main difference is in their bypass ratio . The slower the design speed , the bigger the bypass ratio may become . At very low speed , the ungeared , shrouded fan is exchanged for a geared , free spinning propeller , in other words , the jet changes to a turboprop . The intake and nozzle , however , are very different indeed . The optimum bypass ratio changes continuously , but since the drag coefficient drops after crossing Mach 1 , airplanes are either designed for a maximum Mach number of 0.9 or less , or 1.6 and above . The corresponding bypass ratios today are up to 12 for subsonic engines , and less than 1 for supersonic engines . This produces a sharp boundary at the speed of sound , and many military engines designed for supersonic flight lost their afterburners and were fitted with a big fan to become the engines for subsonic transport aircraft . Examples are : The <URL> turbojet ( installed in the F-100 and F-102 fighters , among others ) became the JT-3D turbofan which powered the Boeing 707 or the DC-8 . The core of the <URL> ( installed in the F-15 and F-16 fighters , among others ) became the <URL> turbofan which is used in the Boeing 737 or the Airbus A320 . The differences between sub - and supersonic engines grow bigger the more you move away from their core . High-pressure compressor , combustion chamber and high pressure turbine look and work the same , but the low pressure compressor of subsonic engines swallows a lot more air and has a much bigger diameter . Supersonic engines in turn mostly have an afterburner . The biggest difference , however , are the intakes ( large pitot intake with <URL> for subsonic aircraft versus adjustable <URL> for supersonic flight ) and the nozzle ( fixed for subsonic flight versus a complex , <URL> for supersonic flight ) . This is due to the very different air speeds and the much higher exit velocities required for supersonic flight .
To avoid shock waves on the compressor blades which would make the engine unusable both because of the very large pressure fluctuations that would cause fatigue and failure of blades , and because of the high level of drag that is developed in supersonic flows that would have the effect of slowing the blades down as they rotated . In fact the engine just would n't run with a supersonic flow going into it . Also the flow needs to be slowed down as much as possible to allow enough time in the combustion chamber for the fuel to burn completely . So ... a cone or ramp shape at the inlet is used to create a little shockwave in front of the engine slowing down the oncoming air to subsonic speeds and allowing the jet engine to operate efficiently . A ramjet is able to use the compressed air because it is designed to do so . An excellent case study is the SR-71 Blackbird , which had engine cones that moved forward and backward based on speed/altitude , to transition from a turbine to a ramjet mission profile . ( Fun fact : That plane is so darned fast that the limit to it 's speed comes not from engine power , but from MELTING THE PLANE because it is going so fast . ) The SR-71 had " Bypass doors " to close of the main turbine of the engine when operating on a ramjet profile . A ramjet , sometimes referred to as a flying stovepipe or an athodyd , is a form of airbreathing jet engine that uses the engine 's forward motion to compress incoming air without a rotary compressor . Ramjets can not produce thrust at zero airspeed ; they can not move an aircraft from a standstill . A ramjet powered vehicle , therefore , requires an assisted take off like a JATO to accelerate it to a speed where it begins to produce thrust . Ramjets work most efficiently at supersonic speeds around Mach 3 . This type of engine can operate up to speeds of Mach 6 . A scramjet is a variant of a ramjet airbreathing jet engine in which combustion takes place in supersonic airflow . As in ramjets , a scramjet relies on high vehicle speed to forcefully compress the incoming air before combustion , but a ramjet decelerates the air to subsonic velocities before combustion , while airflow in a scramjet is supersonic throughout the entire engine . This allows the scramjet to operate efficiently at extremely high speeds : theoretical projections place the top speed of a scramjet between Mach 12 and Mach 24 .
I believe there this could be traced back to the so-called downwash angle of the air coming off the wing . Looking at the picture below ( and put on some imaginary engines on the back like the DC9/MD80 ) , it becomes clear that by mounting it upwards by a few degrees would make it meet the airstream at the streamline angle : You would want to that streamline to interact with the aircraft fan blades with the wind at the same angles . I would imagine that if you did not do this , it would result in an uneven force on the fan blades , which would probably be highly undesirable . Looking at the drawings of the DC9 , it might appear that the shorter version has a higher angle , and that the longer version has a smaller angle , as further from the wing the downwash angle is less , as could also be seen above . For a little further analysis , the following is apparently off the <URL> , and might shed a little more light on the design , in particular in the last paragraph : " The nacelles have been designed to enclose the JT8D engine with a shape that will allow the highest installed performance ( thrust minus drag ) possible at all flight conditions . The nacelle nose cowling is nonsymmetrical to keep the drag to a minimum at the high mach number cruising conditions . The nonsymmetry is required to maintain an extremely flat nacelle line adjacent to the fuselage , such that the nacelle supervelocity increments , when added to those from the pylon and fuselage , do not lead to super-critical velocities with resultant shockwave losses . The nacelle axis and pylon have been set at 3 degrees angle of attack relative to the fuselage to align them with the local flow conditions prevalent at cruising conditions . This is necessary to eliminate the interference and high induced drag that they would otherwise be subjected to . The nozzle is then canted upward relative to the engine axis , thus eliminating the pitching effects due to thrust . " Following picture appears to show the nozzle angle is in fact more horizontal than the entry angle , with the underside longer than the upper side : Thus , while it might not aesthetically pleasing maybe to have it off by a few degrees from the fuselage body , but it does bring advantages when seen with the airflow , and resulting concerns about that the thrust is not being vectored along the body axis is corrected by the nozzle .
Can ? Of course they can . Does it make sense ? No , it does not . A VTOL needs thrust at least equal to its weight . That is much more than a fixed-wing aircraft ( HTOL ) needs . Airliners have lift-to-drag ratio around 18 -- 20 . That is in clean configuration ; in landing configuration it might be about half ( ~ 10 ) and we need twice as much thrust in case an engine fails , so around 1/4 weight . So a VTOL would need 4 times as much thrust as a HTOL . Likely more , because the craft would still have to be capable of reasonably controlled landing in case of engine failure . And while rotorcraft can do that by autorotation and pilot of Harrier or F-35B can simply eject , jet-powered civilian VTOL would only have the remaining engines for it . Now fortunately thrust and power are only indirectly related . To create thrust , force must be applied to the air . This force accelerates air , giving it some momentum and some kinetic energy . Thrust is ( change of ) momentum per time and momentum is mass time velocity while power is ( change of ) energy per time and energy is 1/2 mass times speed squared . So we can produce a lot of thrust with little power by accelerating a lot of air by a little . Which means large propeller : a rotor . That 's how helicopters get enough lift/thrust with reasonably small engine . Unfortunately rotors are not very practical for flying fast . One would also be rather difficult to tilt . That 's why V-22 Osprey and Augusta-Westland AW603 use a compromise that is somewhere between ; large enough to still have good efficiency in hover and small enough to be possible to tilt . What would definitely not be efficient for hover is a jet though . Jets are small and ca n't affect that much air ; what they can is accelerate it a lot . That is necessary for flying fast , but it is terribly inefficient when flying slowly . Military jets do n't care . They want so powerful engine to fly very fast anyway and they do n't care for efficiency much as decisive edge in combat is worth a lot of money . But for civilian transport the small advantage of being able to land closer to destination would not outweigh the disadvantage of being several times more expensive to operate . Flying the long distance with HTOL to a nearby airport and , if the destination is not reachable by car , hiring a helicopter just for the final part of the trip ends up being a lot cheaper .
According to <URL> : Altitude : How High Is Just Right ? Today 's airplanes are pressurized to a typical cabin altitude of 6,500 to 7,000 feet ( 1,981 -- 2,133 m ) , with a maximum certification altitude of 8,000 feet ( 2,438 m ) . Because the advanced composite materials that make up the 787 's fuselage do not fatigue , the 787 can be pressurized more , which allows for lower cabin altitude levels . Studies at Oklahoma State University explored the effect of altitude on passengers to determine optimum levels . After testing at various altitudes , it became clear that lowering the cabin altitude to 6,000 feet ( 1,830 m ) provided meaningful improvements . Lowering the cabin altitude further , however , provided almost no additional benefit . Based on that knowledge , Boeing designed the 787 to be pressurized to a maximum cabin altitude of 6,000 feet . So if we assume a constant altitude of 43,000 ( the 787 's service ceiling1 ) , we would get a maximum differential of : 6,000 ft Cabin Altitude = 9.06 psi 8,000 ft Cabin Altitude = 8.11 psi This would indeed be a higher cabin pressure than what Boeing considers " typical " at maximum altitudes . 1 It is probably actually an even bigger difference since the ceiling of a lot of airplanes is n't this high so the max differential would be even lower .
Norwegian 's heat issues stem from an unusually high passenger capacity aboard the Boeing 787-8 jetliners that the carrier uses on its Las Vegas routes . Most airlines operate the plane with an average of 200 seats , but Norwegian puts 291 seats for sale on the 787-8 aircraft to keep costs down as part of its low-cost model . Given the weight of those additional Norwegian passengers and all that accompanies them , the airline this summer found close to 300 people on board , including crew , and its planes ' ability to take-off during high-temperature periods was sometimes limited . -- <URL> You see that Norwegian carries more people compared to other 787 operators . And they do indeed cite the passenger count as the reason . Hot and high limitations are <URL> , the biggest limitation for twin-jet planes such as the 787 is the ability to climb if an engine fails during takeoff . The longest runway at Vegas ' McCarran International Airport is 14,512 ft ; the elevation is 2,181 ft. <URL> From the 787 performance dispatch manual at 2000 ft pressure altitude and 42 ° C outside air temperature , we find the limiting factor is the climb limit weight , which is 195 tonnes ( 429,000 lbs ) . The 787-8 's maximum takeoff weight is 228 tonnes ( 502,500 lbs ) , that 's a structural limit . The 33-tonne difference is equivalent to 300 passengers ( 80 kg adult + 30 kg luggage and carry-on ) . Of course the plane wo n't be fully fueled , despite the huge distance , but you see how big the limitation is . It gets even worse above 42 ° C. 30 ° C seems to be ideal . Vegas record high is 47 ° C , and the mean maximum in July is 44.7 ° C. Why not depart from Vegas at night ? Most probably due to <URL> . Waiting for the sun to go down means financial penalties , which is confirmed by the German news article . Several times the airline had to move the flights to the cooler hours . It costs . -- Google Translate Vegas to Europe is a huge distance , and a direct-flight without a technical stop to refuel is Norwegian 's only choice -- evidently and understandably . Their low-cost model that favors filling all the seats over fuel is the limiting factor . <URL> ( <URL> ) The four Norwegian routes , they range from 4,462 NM to 4,701 NM , London being ~ 4,600 NM . <URL> ( <URL> ) Fully loaded with payload , the range is limited to 2,700 NM for a takeoff from a 42 ° C Vegas . 18 tonnes are to be shed to make it to London , i.e. , 163 seats will be empty , or 90 empty seats plus leaving behind 8 tonnes of freight -- airlines do depend on freight for profit . So , the typical quoted 200 passenger capacity would work . But if Norwegian does n't do freight , then they 're not to blame for cancelling the four European routes during the summer heat . <URL> on how to read the payload/range chart .
Boldface emergency procedures are procedures that the aircrew should have committed to memory and are written in bold text . Generally speaking , the boldface for all emergencies involving brake failures , gear failures , control failures , literally anything that involves control of the aircraft after touchdown , starts with : If fly-away airspeed available : 1 . Go-around If fly-away airspeed unavailable : 2 . Do specific airframe related items . Emergency procedures like these will be committed to memory , and then the only problem for the aircrew to solve will be if they have enough runway remaining to get airborne again . If they do n't have enough runway remaining then usually the fix to is apply emergency brakes ( if the pedals hit the floor ) or use backup nose wheel steering ( for a steering failure ) and ride it out . Note : use of these emergency procedures does n't necessarily indicate a failure of an aircraft system . If a sudden gust of wind at touchdown weathervanes the aircraft 45 degree off centerline , you can be sure the crew is checking for fly-away airspeed .
The screens are LCDs , which have a polarized filter layer over them . That layer is usually placed at a 45 ° so they are misaligned with your polarized sunglasses which are aligned vertically . You can confirm this is the problem by turning your sunglasses at different angles and see if the screen changes .
No . The fuel system would risk to clog up with gelled diesel fuel in the low temperatures at cruise altitude . If you had omitted " safely " in your question , the answer might be different . Before I repeat what others have written before , I refer you to <URL> . The essential part is : Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later .
There 's one I can think of immediately , and that 's the granddaddy of them all , the <URL> . The X-1 's control system was unassisted and it had no hydraulic system . The only part of the control system that was assisted was the horizontal stabilizer , which was <URL> . I think most of the early supersonic test airplanes were mechanically operated .
There are a few ways to sense ice on an airframe . The <URL> here that outlines the various types of sensors . First and foremost planes have ice lights that project onto the wings so they can be visually inspected . There are <URL> that use a variety of methods to detect ice . There are also some electro mechanical devices , here are a few examples , the rest are outlined in the <URL> . Penny and Giles The Penny and Giles system uses a probe type sensor that measures ice buildup in terms of Liquid Water Content ( LWC ) . This system was designed specifically for use on helicopters and is available for all turbine-powered helicopters . Rosemount The sensing probe is driven magnetostrictively to vibrate at its resonant frequency of 40,000 Hz . As the ice detector enters an icing environment , ice collects on the sensing probe . The added mass of the accreted ice causes the frequency of the sensing probe to decrease in accordance with the laws of classical mechanics . Sunstrand The Sunstrand system uses a mounted probe with a sensing surface facing the airstream . Beta particles are released from a Strontium 90 Radiation Source and are collimated by a specially shaped window in the probe housing . These particles pass across the sensing surface to a Geiger-Muller tube . High voltage is applied to the Geiger-Muller tube to enable it to detect the radiation emitted by the Strontium 90 source . Ice accretion on the probe decreases the beta particles detected by the tube . When the particle count drops below a pre-set level , a pulse rate discriminating amplifier energizes an icing signal visible to the flight crew . At this time a heater inside the probe is activated , the ice is removed from the probe , and the probe is ready to begin another icing cycle . Some of these will work in a static situation while others may require the passage from a non icing environment to an icing situation .
is n't the cost directly proportional to speed ? No . Most fuel can be saved by flying higher because the lower air density reduces parasite drag . Provided the trip is long enough for the saving at altitude to offset the cost of getting there . Aircraft drag has two components . The parasite drag which increases with speed and the induced drag which decreases . So they have a point of minimum drag and for jet airliners it 's typically somewhere between 200 and 250 knots indicated . Flying any slower would increase the cost . At the altitude where jets normally fly , the true speed is significantly higher than indicated speed . For jet engines , the fuel burned is roughly proportional to thrust they generate and at higher thrust lower per unit of thrust . Since power is thrust times speed , this translate to much better efficiency at higher speed . So a jet wants to fly slightly faster than their lowest drag point . Even if the trip cost is higher , higher speed allows you to make more trips , so the fixed costs get split over more passengers . So it makes sense to fly slightly faster than the lowest fuel burn . Generally airliners are operated at the point of lowest cost . For long trips where it pays off to climb high , jets are most efficient . For short trips , turboprops are often used that ca n't climb that high , but are more efficient at lower altitudes and speeds .
DO-254 is for Airborne Electronic Hardware . Redundancy is n't necessarily required for DO-254 . I would expect that the processor manufacturer would be able to provide a data package with the necessary documentation if a company were to use it in a DO-254 certifiable product . In my experience , however , DO-254 is applied for custom micro-coded components only ( for the FAA at least ) . DO-254 was a way to apply concepts similar to DO-178 to things like PLDs , FPGAs , and ASICs to prevent a " firmware " gap in certification .
No , you can not - at least not with the default masks . In principle , the oxygen systems on board can all provide at least 15 mins . of oxygen , in some of the worst conditions ( indeed , that 's what they 're designed to do ) . However , their sole purpose is to make high altitude air breathable . The key principle here is partial pressure . Basically , the partial pressure of a gas is the fraction of a certain gas in a gas mixture times the ambient pressure . Since normal air consists of about 21 % oxygen , the partial pressure of oxygen at sea level is 0.21 atm ( atmosphere ) . If the partial pressure of oxygen is too low , your lungs actually lose oxygen to the atmosphere when you breathe - much like a deflating balloon . When the cabin pressure drops , the partial pressure of oxygen drops proportionally . In that case , oxygen masks are provided . They do not raise the pressure of the air you breathe in , but raise the partial pressure of oxygen by filling your mask with oxygen . If the cabin pressure would drop to 0.2 atm , and you would be given 100 % oxygen , the partial pressure of oxygen would be 0.2 atm , which is about the same as at sea level - perfectly survivable . The mask as such does not need to be airtight - it just needs to make sure that there 's enough oxygen flowing into your mask to displace all the useless nitrogen in the air . Indeed , the mask you will see on airplanes are generally flimsy , plastic masks . Under water , these masks are not sufficient at all . They will probably turn into a frothy , bubbly mess of a water/oxygen mixture , especially when the aircraft is filling up with water , due to strong currents . So , you would have to wait for the currents to diminish , and then hold your oxygen mask in such a way that no water will enter it - this probably means you will have to face upwards all the time . Of course , you can get creative ( pull the mask of and breathe from the tube ) , or luck out with a high quality mask that happens to work underwater . But I 'm afraid that as soon as your plane is sinking , it 's too late to play the hero , and your best bet would be to get out and at least save your own life .
end question
start question
How can I estimate the minimum runway needed to take off with a hang glider ?
What you need is enough lift to remain in the air . For that , the maximum lift of your hang glider needs to exceed the total weight . When you know the total weight of the glider ( you included ) , you can derive the theoretical minimum airspeed from the lift formula : $ $ L _ { max } = \ frac12 { \ rho } V ^ 2C _ { max } S$ $ $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2W } { { \ rho } C _ { max } S } } $ $ Where : $ L$ = lift $ \ rho $ = air density $ V$ = air speed $ C _ { max } $ = maximum lift coefficient $ S$ = wing surface $ W$ = weight Now you have to know your maximum lift coefficient . Suppose this is 1.2 , and for safety and initial manoeuvring , let 's add a margin of 40 % to the weight . Let 's say your mass is 85 kg , and the glider has a mass of 35 kg . The total weight would be 120 kg -- that is about 1,177 N weight , which for the sake of safety margin is increased to 1,650 N. I 'll estimate the surface of the wing to be $ 16m ^ 2 $ . Assume a normal day , the air density will be about $ 1.225 kg/m ^ 3 $ . Filling in the numbers is the formula : $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ times1650 } { 1.225 \ times1 .2 \ times16 } } \ approx 12 \ textrm { m/s } $ $ Any wind speed you get you can subtract from this figure : what is left you have to achieve by pushing , running or diving .
This is heavily dependent on the local jurisdictions you plan to operate in and what their laws are . First off you must find out if your desired countries of operation accept foreign certificates . This varies heavily all over the world and can range from full no questions asked acceptance , to you needing to simply take the test again ( in that country ) through any various case you can think of . Second you need to find out what certificate you need . Here in the US to give rides ( and receive compensation for such ) you need a commercial certificate . This looks like it <URL> . Hours . The FAA requires a few more hours than the Canadian certificate will , <URL> Are at least 16 years of age ; and Have logged at least 10 hours of flight time in a glider and that flight time must include at least 20 total glider flights , and Have 2 hours of solo flight time in a glider , and Have passed the FAA written examination ; and Have passed the flight exam with a FAA Examiner . <URL> A minimum of 6 hours of flight training under the direction and supervision of an instructor At least 2 hours of solo flight time , including a minimum of 20 takeoffs and 20 landings Right off the bad Canada requires 4 less hours which , no matter how you spin it will be cheaper ( since you have to pay for less time ) . Here is the US if you are not a citizen you will need to pass an NTSB background check to train . I do not know if Canada has a similar requirement . Travel , assuming you are in the Caribbean already it may be cheaper to travel to Florida ( or the like ) to train then go all the way up to Canada for your training . Edit : According to this document the ECCAA does issue glider ratings <URL> ( a ) The Authority may issue the following ratings for pilots ( i ) Category ratings in the following aircraft : ( a ) Aeroplane ; ( b ) Rotorcraft ; ( c ) Glider ; ( d ) Lighter-than-air ; ( e ) Power lift .
First , let 's agree on terminology : What you saw in airshows is a vertical flight path . Flying horizontally first , the airplane pitched up until the nose was pointing straight into the sky . Surprisingly , no thrust is needed to perform this maneuver . Even gliders can do it . What happens is that kinetic energy is converted to potential energy , the rate of potential energy increase being proportional to flight speed and aircraft mass . If you start fast enough , this vertical flying can be maintained for several seconds , until the aircraft runs out of speed and stops in midair , followed by an uncontrolled drop . Skilled pilots orient the aircraft in the right direction by starting a rotation around the vertical axis at the top of the climb , so the following drop lets them pick up speed again with the correct nose-down attitude . Now potential energy is converted back into kinetic energy until speed is sufficient for a pullout . In aerobatics , this maneuver is called <URL> A few conditions apply , however . The airplane must be able to fly fast enough to have the needed potential energy to sustain the maneuver through the pitch-up phase . This is helped if its engines add energy , so the kinetic energy bleeds off more slowly . Also , at the top of the maneuver it is flying at zero g , and this requires at least that all items on board are securely fastened . Lastly , the pitch-up needs a load factor bigger than 1 g , and the higher the maximum load factor is , the tighter this pitch-up can be flown . Now the question has been changed : The vertical flight path is flown right after take-off . This limits the entry speed for the maneuver , and gliders will not be able to do this . If we take the 737 from the question and fly it with no payload and little fuel , the flight mass $ m $ of a 737-700 is 40 tons , and the installed thrust is about 200 kN ( sea level static ) . Let 's assume that the pilot accelerates after takeoff to a horizontal speed $ v $ = 100 m/s ( 194 KTAS ) while retracting the flaps , the kinetic energy ( $ 0.5 \ cdot m \ cdot v ^ 2 $ ) is equivalent to a potential energy ( $ m \ cdot g \ cdot h $ ) of an altitude gain h of $ $ h = \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 \ cdot g } = 510 m $ $ The engines deliver less thrust with increasing speed ; maybe 40 % of the weight , so the airplane will still accelerate for the first 18 ° - 20 ° of the 90 ° flight path change . This will delay the point when speed has been bled off and add maybe 150 m to h . At 100 m/s a pull-up with a radius of 500 m will add a load factor of 2 g . The pilot needs to pull less first and harder at the end of the maneuver in order to stay within the <URL> . When speed bleeds off , so will wing lift , and in the second half of the pull-up the wing will not create enough lift to change the flight path enough in order to reach the desired vertical attitude . Also , the aircraft will be very low for a safe recovery . This makes it rather doubtful that an airliner can be pulled up to a vertical climb after takeoff . If the maneuver is started at a higher speed and with a little more distance from the ground , I see no reason why it should not safely be possible .
FAA Advisory Circular ( AC ) <URL> covers " standards and recommendations for airport design . " It does not include any restrictions on proximity to bodies of water , but it does make the following recommendation in paragraph 319 ( a ) : It is recommended that the entire RSA and RPZ be accessible to rescue and fire-fighting vehicles such that no part of the RSA or RPZ is more than 330 feet ( 100 m ) from either an all-weather road or a paved operational surface . Where an airport is adjacent to a body of water where access by rescue personnel from airport property is desirable , it is recommended that boat launch ramps with appropriate access roads be provided . The actual FARs ( <URL> ) also do not state a limit . The only reference to bodies of water of any kind is in § 139.325 ( Airport emergency plan ) paragraph ( e ) : The plan required by this section shall contain provisions , to the extent practicable , for the rescue of aircraft accident victims from significant bodies of water or marsh lands adjacent to the airport which are crossed by the approach and departure flight paths of air carriers . A body of water or marsh land is significant if the area exceeds one-quarter square mile and can not be traversed by conventional land rescue vehicles . To the extent practicable , the plan shall provide for rescue vehicles with a combined capacity for handling the maximum number of persons that can be carried on board the largest air carrier aircraft that the airport reasonably can be expected to serve . So , bottom line : there is no limit , but airports are required to take water into due consideration when developing emergency plans , and the FAA looks at each airport and plan on a case-by-case basis during airport certification . As for the rest of the world , I have no authoritative information ; but as others have posted , it certainly seems like the situation is the same , there being numerous examples of airports worldwide built on natural or reclaimed land very close to water .
Since you have your private , the LSA just has to be approved . According to the <URL> which covers LSA certification : ( 5 ) This aircraft is to be operated under VFR , day only , unless appropriately equipped for night and/or instrument flight in accordance with 14 CFR § 91.205 , and when allowed by the manufacturer 's operating instructions . So it must be properly equipped ( see below ) AND allowed by the manufacturer 's operating instructions . You will need to check this with each manufacturer to see if they certified it for night flight . <URL> says day VFR instruments ( paragraph b ) plus : ( c ) Visual flight rules ( night ) . For VFR flight at night , the following instruments and equipment are required : ( 1 ) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section . ( 2 ) Approved position lights . ( 3 ) An approved aviation red or aviation white anticollision light system on all U.S.-registered civil aircraft . Anticollision light systems initially installed after August 11 , 1971 , on aircraft for which a type certificate was issued or applied for before August 11 , 1971 , must at least meet the anticollision light standards of part 23 , 25 , 27 , or 29 of this chapter , as applicable , that were in effect on August 10 , 1971 , except that the color may be either aviation red or aviation white . In the event of failure of any light of the anticollision light system , operations with the aircraft may be continued to a stop where repairs or replacement can be made . ( 4 ) If the aircraft is operated for hire , one electric landing light . ( 5 ) An adequate source of electrical energy for all installed electrical and radio equipment . ( 6 ) One spare set of fuses , or three spare fuses of each kind required , that are accessible to the pilot in flight .
Even with similar weight , turboprop and turbofan aircraft will have different design characteristics . A turboprop will fly at lower altitudes and airspeeds , resulting in different aerodynamic designs . A turboprop also burns less fuel per hour , so it will need less fuel capacity . That being said , we can look at some aircraft to get an idea of what the trends might be . The best example is probably the Dornier 328 . It 's a turboprop aircraft that seats about 30 passengers . There also happens to be a version of the plane with jet engines . This is probably about as similar as you can get in both weight and aerodynamics . According to Skybrary , the figures are as follows : <URL> MTOW 13990 kg Distance 1000 m <URL> MTOW 15200 kg Distance 1382 m You can see the the jet derivative is a bit heavier but requires a much longer takeoff distance . The trend is similar between other aircraft . <URL> Turboprop MTOW 18600 kg Distance 1085 m <URL> Jet MTOW 20000 kg Distance 1580 m <URL> Jet MTOW 21523 kg Distance 1527 m
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
Left , right and centre . For example , Heathrow has 27 left ( 27L ) and right and 09 left ( 09L ) and right . <URL> <URL> Here 's an example for an airfield with a 34 left runway . <URL> If there are more than three runways more or less parallel , one or more runway numbers will be shifted by 10 degrees , e.g. 08L , 08C , 08R , 09R . From <URL> At large airports with four or more parallel runways ( for example , at Los Angeles , Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County , Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta , Denver , Dallas-Fort Worth and Orlando ) some runway identifiers are shifted by 10 degrees to avoid the ambiguity that would result with more than three parallel runways . For example , in Los Angeles , this system results in runways 6L , 6R , 7L , and 7R , even though all four runways are actually parallel ( approximately 69 degrees ) . At Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , there are five parallel runways , named 17L , 17C , 17R , 18L , and 18R , all oriented at a heading of 175.4 degrees . Occasionally , an airport with only 3 parallel runways may use different runway identifiers , for example when a third parallel runway was opened at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport in 2000 to the south of existing 8R/26L , rather than confusingly becoming the " new " 8R/26L it was instead designated 7R/25L , with the former 8R/26L becoming 7L/25R and 8L/26R becoming 8/26 .
Required runway length for landing The minimum runway length required for landing under Part 135 operations is , believe it or not , the same as Part 91 : You need to be able to land and stop within the available runway length specified in the AFM . This is what you use when you are getting ready to land . That being said , since you reference the " 60 % / 80 % rules " , there is a more stringent requirement that is required as part of your preflight planning and specified in <URL> 60 % Rule for Large Turbine Transport Category Airplanes This rule is specified in 14 CFR 135.385 ( b ) , and says ( in part ) : no person operating a turbine engine powered large transport category airplane may take off that airplane unless its weight on arrival ... would allow a full stop landing at the intended destination airport within 60 percent of the effective length of each runway So to follow the regulation by the letter , you need to take 60 % of the runway length and compare it to your actual landing distance . Example We want to land on a 6,000 ft. runway , so our max allowable landing distance is 3,600 ft. : $ $ 6,000 ft \ times60 \ % = 3,600 ft $ $ Determining minimum runway length Sometimes pilots prefer to ask the question in a different way , and ask " what is the minimum runway distance needed for the current conditions " instead of " what can my maximum landing distance be . To calculate this , we simply re-arrange our formula above like this : $ $ Minimum ~ Runway = \ frac { Actual ~ Landing ~ Distance } { 60 \ % } $ $ If our actual landing distance is 3,000 ft. then we would need a minimum field length of 5,000 ft. : $ $ \ frac { 3,000 ft } { 60 \ % } = 5,000 ft $ $ 80 % Rule The 80 % rule specified in 14 CFR 135.385 ( f ) works exactly the same way , but can only be used by an " An eligible on-demand operator " if approved in accordance with their Operations Specifications ( A057 and C049 ) and the procedures listed in their Flight Operations Manual . You would then replace the 60 % with 80 % in the above calculations . Wet Runways 14 CFR 135.385 ( d ) says : ( d ) Unless , based on a showing of actual operating landing techniques on wet runways , a shorter landing distance ( but never less than that required by paragraph ( b ) of this section ) has been approved for a specific type and model airplane and included in the Airplane Flight Manual , no person may take off a turbojet airplane when the appropriate weather reports or forecasts , or any combination of them , indicate that the runways at the destination airport may be wet or slippery at the estimated time of arrival unless the effective runway length at the destination airport is at least 115 percent of the runway length required under paragraph ( b ) of this section . So basically , you use the information from your AFM for wet runway landing distance , or if it is n't provided ( since it is n't required ) , you do the same calculation that you did before but include an additional 15 % . Example : Taking the example from the 60 % rule and assuming that it is wet , we have a max landing distance of 3,130 ft. : $ $ \ frac { 6,000 ft \ times60 \ % } { 115 \ % } = 3,130 ft $ $ Minimum Runway Length When Wet The minimum runway distance with a 3,000 ft. actual landing distance would be 5,750 ft. : $ $ \ frac { 3,000 ft \ times115 \ % } { 60 \ % } = 5,750 ft $ $
As any licensed pilot knows , the FAA and the US military are the " de-facto " regulators of 99.9 % of what goes on in the air over the US ( see : <URL> ) . Still , state and local governments are not entirely powerless here . The general theory being more or less that , in cases where there is no obvious conflict with the FAA , or the US military , then local jurisdictions may still have some small level of control over certain very limited " air-spaces " ( see : <URL> ) . Suggestion : 99.9 % of the time , the FAA wins , but hey , do n't let that slow you down ! ( Still , in view of the findings of the second case I just listed above , if I were you , I might try keeping peace with my neighbors over trying to save just a few steps on the way home . )
Guiding is called <URL> and can be requested . A follow-me car can also be used to guide the plane . In some airports the follow-me car is <URL> , as well as its fees . By Frank Schwichtenberg ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> In most cases the pilots use charts . Either paper or electronic . Some electronic charts offer a moving map feature , whereby the crew can see their position on the map . Lastly , there 's the new follow-the-greens ( <URL> ) method , in which the ATC programs the taxi route and the crew are then guided by smart green lights . Follow-the-greens cockpit video / ATC audio in Singapore Changi can be <URL> . In all cases , except for follow-the-greens , the route is given . Runway [ number ] , taxi via [ route ] . ( USA . ) Taxi to holding point [ number ] runway [ number ] via [ route ] . ( Europe and elsewhere . ) It 's worth mentioning that the taxiways are marked by <URL> as well . By Bin im Garten ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL>
The reason was to give the bombs the place close to the center of gravity . Wing sweep ( for high cruise Mach numbers ) in combination with a high aspect ratio of the wing ( for low induced drag ) made it impossible to place the landing gear in the wing , so it had to be integrated into the fuselage . The main landing gear normally needs to be <URL> ( slightly behind for a tricycle gear , slightly ahead for a taildragger ) , but this space was needed for the massive bomb bays . Since the bombs will be dropped somewhere along a bombing mission , dropping them should not upset the balance of the aircraft , so no compromise was possible . <URL> B-52 cutaway drawing showing the two bomb bays in the center of the fuselage ( picture <URL> ) This problem existed already during the development of the 6-engined <URL> a few years before . In both designs , two pairs of landing gears were chosen , one pair ahead and one pair aft of the bomb bay , and the aircraft lost its ability to rotate for takeoff . Due to the powerful fowler flaps the attitude in cruise and at slow speed could be made identical . The downside is more drag during the take-off run , since the wing produces more lift , but this could be tolerated in a strategic bomber with air refueling capabilities . <URL> B-47 on approach with gear down and drag chute deployed ( picture <URL> ) . Note the outriggers between the inner pair of engines - those were needed to keep the aircraft level on the ground . <URL> B-52 in flight with gear down ( picture <URL> ) . Here the forward and aft gear of the B-47 have been replaced by pairs of gears to distribute the load over eight wheels and the outriggers are positioned outside of the outer engine pair , but the general gear configuration is fairly similar . The Russian design bureau Myasishchyev found a different solution for their <URL> in the mid-50s . They also had to put the bomb bay into the center fuselage and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . To solve the problem , the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . <URL> Myasishchyev M-50 with extended front gear strut ( picture <URL> ) . The two open doors under the cockpit were for the pilot and navigator : Their downward-ejecting seats would be lowered on cables for the crew to be strapped in at ground level , then winching themselves into place .
I do n't know about the situation specifically in the US , but in my - mostly European - experience crew are happy to welcome you to their office after flight . When I feel the need to see the cockpit or discuss things with the pilots I try to ask the flightcrew before take-off if I can meet them after the flight . Sometimes I explain my interests to the cabin crew and often they will arrange the visit . In a few cases I just asked while deboarding . Depending on the aircraft type and airport situation you have to think about the logistics a bit . In single aisle aircraft , if you start a discussion with crew while deboarding , you are blocking the queue . This gives the feeling that it is an inconvenient moment and reduces your chances . So if you ask at the last possible moment , make sure most people already exited before you . However , if passengers are transported to the terminal by bus , you will be holding the bus since you are the last to get off . This reduces the time you can spend in cockpit drastically . If you expect to be bussed to the terminal , ask cabin crew before the descent and do n't wait until everybody has exited .
There are three different schools of thought there , and one can be selected based on the capabilities and characteristics of the tailwheel aircraft you are flying . Fly the tail off the ground : After achieving full power during the start of the takeoff roll , apply forward stick pressure until the tail lifts off and the aircraft assumes a level attitude on the main gear , then hold that pitch attitude for the rest of the takeoff roll . This technique can be done in most underpowered taildraggers and is useful for short field takeoffs and landings as it minimizes parasite drag and flat plate area during the takeoff roll . It will require a healthy bootful of right rudder to counter the change in P-Factor as well as gyroscopic precession from the propeller . Let the tail fly off the ground : After applying full power with full aft stick deflection , neutralize pitch input to the stick and continue the takeoff roll . As speed builds , the tail will lift off the ground naturally . This is the recommended technique when flying high performance tailwheel planes like WWII fighters , etc. . where good rudder authority is needed to counter P-Factor changes and precession . 3-point takeoff : Apply full power and hold full aft stick as well as additional right rudder to counter for P-Factor . As speed builds in the takeoff roll , gradually ease up on stick pressure but hold just enough to keep the tailwheel on the runway . As the airplane lifts off the runway care must be taken to quickly adjust elevator pressure to hold a gradual climb and prevent rapid pitch up and stall . I once flew an MX2 with an oversized prop offering only about two inches of ground clearance resting on the mains in level attitude . We were taught to only do 3-point takeoffs and landings and specifically warned not to attempt anything else to prevent a propstrike .
A carrier aircraft launcher is called a " <URL> " , for good reason ! It 's job is to get an aircraft up to flying speed very quickly , which of course results in a very high acceleration for the plane and pilot . Sometimes as high as 4G . On modern American aircraft carriers , the catapult is about 300 feet ( 90 metres ) long , and can get a large plane up to flying speed , 140 knots , in about 2 seconds . By comparison , taking off on a conventional runway a plane might need 2 kilometres to get up to this speed . As you can imagine this puts a lot of stress on the planes , carrier aircraft are built much more rugged than an aircraft that would only fly off normal runways . Each catapult-launched aircraft has different procedures for launch . In the case of the F/A -18 , the pilot keeps his hands off the control column during the actual launch , grabbing it as soon as the plane leaves the edge of the deck . This is not the case for other carrier aircraft , such as the C-2 Greyhound , nor is it the case when taking off the same aircraft from a runway . I found this in the F/A -18 E/F flight manual ( <URL> ) : Immediately after the end of the catapult stroke , the aircraft will rotate to capture the 12 ° reference AOA ( hands-off ) . To avoid PIO with the FCS , do not restrain the stick during catapult launch or make stick inputs immediately after catapult launch . The pilot should attempt to remain out of the loop but should closely monitor the catapult sequence . AOA = Angle of Attack , PIO = <URL> , FCS = Flight Control System . Which roughly translates as " The plane will fly itself and find the optimal climb angle without pilot input during the launch . "
<URL> to assist Harriers in getting airborne . The Harrier can not take-off vertically when fully loaded . <URL> . Therefore , they need to do a " short take-off " where the thrust nozzles are angled rearwards to provide thrust , then partially angled downwards as speed is gained to produce enough lift from the wings , and thrust angled downwards , to climb away . Watch the nozzles closely at about 17 and 36 seconds in <URL> . Try not to watch the poor chaps forehead too closely at 20 seconds . Also watch <URL> . At about 16 seconds , you can see the pilots left hand pull back on the <URL> as he passes the end of the deck . Now imagine a flat deck on an aircraft carrier . Operations must be able to carry on in rough seas . You accelerate down the deck and fly off the end , just as the deck dips downwards as the carrier rides a large wave . You are pointed straight at the sea . In order to avoid flying into the sea , you need to climb , which means pulling G and a lot of power at low speed which the Harrier just did n't have . Now consider the ski jump . There are two effects . The jump is angled so that even in the worst seas in which operations will continue , the bow pitching down will not point an aircaft leaving the end of the jump towards the sea . The aircraft will always be pitched upwards . Imagine driving a fast car up the jump and off the end . It will be thrown up and forward in a <URL> . Even a car , which can not fly , will be pointing up for a few seconds , then level for few seconds before falling into the sea . But instead of a car , you are driving a jet which can fly and has thrust . The aircraft will angle the nozzles rearwards for maximum acceleration until it leaves the jump . The wings are now generating significant lift , let 's say 50 % of that required to climb away . As you leave the end of the jump , you angle the nozzles downwards so that you have the momentum of the aircraft and some rearward thrust maintaining lift on the wings whilst adding lift from the thrust vector having a downward component . Those seconds of pointing up , then level , enable the aircraft to continue to accelerate until all of the lift required can be gained from the wing when the nozzles can now be angled rearward again to continue the acceleration . Take-off speed is therefore reduced and take-off distance is about halved meaning smaller , cheaper carriers . That 's how Harriers do it . I imagine it 's the same story for any other VSTOL aircraft .
For the same aircraft speed and an horizontal trajectory : When the aircraft is lighter , less lift is required . To decrease the lift , the angle of attack needs to be reduced ( said otherwise : the aircraft flies more horizontal ) . A smaller AoA creates less induced drag . Lift and drag coefficients as a function of the angle of attack are represented in the following diagram . <URL> ( <URL> ) The ratio L/D is also represented , with its maximum L/D max . L/D max is an economical angle of attack . After L/D max , a gain in lift is at the expense of a larger increase in induced drag . Side-effect of reduced drag : The thrust can be reduced to achieve the previous speed . The range is increased thanks to the thrust reduction . For a more accurate representation of lift and drag coefficients against the angle of attack , and additional information : <URL> .
Good question . 14 CFR Part 139 requires FAA to issue airport operating certificates to airports that : Serve scheduled and unscheduled <URL> with more than 30 seats ; Serve scheduled air carrier operations in aircraft with more than 9 seats but less than 31 seats . Also : VFR charts depict airport 's hard and soft surface runways . Enroute charts depict airports having hard surface runways of at least 3000-foot in length . If your airport meets those criteria , you may contact the local Federal Aviation Administration , Airports District Office or Aeronautical Information Management , AJV-21 , at 1 - (866) 295-8236 to have your airport charted . That means for a private airstrip , it 's your call as the owner to have it placed on a chart . Pretty cool . More : <URL>
See the notes on <URL> under the " Delivery " section . Looks like its formally called " long-line loiter " . There is a brief note on it <URL> and a US Patent <URL> and <URL> manual from the 70 's that seems to show how to do it and some related research on it . Here is a nice image of the maneuver
It 's not web based , but you can use Google Earth for this -- <URL> , and you can do all your flight planning by entering routes in Google Earth . Then just turn off the sectional and you 'll have the Google Earth satellite imagery to work with . As an added bonus ( relating to your comment about mainly using an Android tabled ) : Google Earth <URL> ( and the plugin version of the chart overlay should work in the tablet app -- I know it works in the <URL> ) BIG SCARY IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER As the folks who publish that collection of charts will tell you , the charts are not always current and thus should not be used for navigational purposes ( much like SkyVector ) . You can of course replace the chart graphics with current ones ( or locate a chart collection that is current ) if you want to , but as you 're only using this as a pre-flight planning aid and will be doing your real flight planning with current charts and data the ones provided in the Google Earth Library are probably " good enough " for your purposes .
end question
start question
Can small airplanes dump fuel during flight ?
The short answer is , no , generally only large aircraft have purpose-built fuel dumping systems . Such a system may be helpful in reducing aircraft gross weight to a safe landing weight in the case of a precautionary landing . The approved landing weight of smaller aircraft , such as the C172 , is generally the same as the approved takeoff weight . The longer answer is , yes , it would be possible to " dump " fuel from an aircraft such as a C172 , though not by means of a purpose built mechanism . The " dumping " would be more of a slow to moderately fast drain , depending on the means used . If I wanted to drain the fuel from one of the wing tanks in a C172 while in flight I could use a pen , screw or other such device to drain fuel from the wing tank sump . A faster dumping/draining method -- though requiring considerably more work -- would be to unscrew and remove the fuel drain valve , thereby releasing all the fuel in the wing . Obviously , this later method would hamper the possibility of draining only a portion of the fuel from the wing tank . <URL> I can not think of any reason why I would want to drain the fuel in flight apart from reducing the risk of fire in the event of an emergency landing . And in that case , my prefered method of reducing the risk of a post-landing fire would be to concentrate my efforts on the landing , not on eliminating a fuel source . Generally , I prefer to have more rather than less fuel in the tanks when I fly .
As far as I 'm aware this has never been attempted ( and I doubt the Navy would let me try - though I 'm certainly game if they are ! ) , but : A <URL> stalls at 38mph ( 33kts ) . <URL> had a maximum speed of 38.7 mph ( 33.6 kts ) . So , given a lightly loaded cub and an Enterprise-class carrier at flank speed , it is at least theoretically possible to float that aircraft off the deck ( if it were lightly loaded , and thus had a lower stall speed ) . Achieving zero relative motion would require a little more effort - specifically you 'd have to seek out a headwind , and the Cub would have to be operating at an airspeed above stall , but still pretty close to it . For example , if the Enterprise were making 30 knots and steaming into a 10 knot headwind the relative wind on deck would be 40 knots . That 's enough to lift the Cub , but as soon as it was in the air it would need to pull itself along ( via its engine ) to maintain that speed . The Cub would have zero relative motion above the deck at an airspeed somewhere around 40 knots ) . As a ( slightly ridiculous ) bonus : <URL> has a stall speed of 28 mph ( 25kts ) . It would be theoretically possible to fly such a plane like a kite from an aircraft carrier . Its <URL> ( both ~ 500ft ) are also such that it could operate from a carrier deck without need for the catapult to launch or arresting wire to stop .
Most of the action for ETOPS flights takes place during planning and dispatch stages - the planning for alternate airports , gathering of weather reports for diversion cases etc. . Before ETOPS entry point , the weather reports are updated and checks are made ; after that there are no ' special ' procedures to be followed during a ( normal ETOPS ) flight . From <URL> : 3 - IN-FLIGHT ETOPS PROCEDURES b ) Weather update − after ETOPS Entry Point : The crew should continue to update the weather forecasts and reports for en-route alternates . As for a normal flight , the crew must make every effort to keep themselves informed on the weather at the destination and the destination alternate . c ) Fuel monitoring The procedures normally used as per airline policy is also applicable for ETOPS . This is true even for flights where ETOPS fuel planning is the limiting factor . In case of diversion ( say due to an engine failure ) , the PIC will take a decision like any other flight , though he/she can not fly beyond the nearest suitable airport . One way of looking at this is that the main purpose of ETOPS certification is to improve the robustness and reliability of the design and operator to a level that the ETOPS flight could be conducted like any other normal flight in the ETOPS segment .
This is often a result of when the planes push back from the gate or if there is a direct tail wind on the ground . The pressurization system for aircraft uses bleed air from the compression stage of the engine . If the engines are running at push back or idling when a tail wind hits them the brief reversed airflow can cause some vaporous fuel to make its way forward in the engine and come through the air system causing the smell . <URL> . Patrick Smith also <URL> .
I did all my training in PA-28 's ( Warrior and Archer II mainly ) and here is my advice ) First off , practice makes perfect in all cases here . Second , I am not a CFI and you should ALWAYS seek the experience of a CFI to help you learn how to fly properly . Discuss everything with your CFI before trying anything . The PA-28 is one of the most benign airframes and even in the bumpiest the bumpiest of conditions you can fly it by the numbers every time . Floating on landing is generally caused by ( in my experience ) 2 things . Excessive speed on final - Remember you will only land nicely once you have gotten rid of all excess speed . This happens during your round-out and flare to landing . On a short field even a perfect landing will take up more runway if you are overspeed since you need to bleed that speed off . Ballooning - This is generally a result of over speed and over flaring . Since the PA-28 is a low wing ( compared to the high wing of the C172 ) an over-flare to early will cause significant ballooning as you effectively bounce off the ground effect . A proper timed round out and flare will come in time . One thing you can do to mitigate this ( and I found this helped as a student pilot for me ) is to fly a longer final leg ( and thus a longer downwind ) . When I was learning to fly a stable approach it took time for me to get the settings in and really nail the approach . A longer final will help you settle the plane into place as a student and really nail a maneuver like this . Generally tight patterns are taught but if its safer and better for you to fly a longer final and nail the maneuver , do it . In the PA-28 's you can ( and should ) be right on 65 kts when doing a soft field . Practice descending at a constant airspeed at altitude with your instructor . 500ft/min right on 65Kts with full flaps , then come back into the pattern and use what you learned to come in right as you should . Cut the power a bit earlier . Generally you are most likely taught to cut the power over the numbers and touch down at the markers . In a short field situation you can cut the power a bit earlier , pitch down to keep you speed up , and touch down right on the numbers . <URL> Train at an actual short field ( or as short as you are allowed to fly ) . My flight school generally had us going between 5000ft airports with 2 runways ( we were based at KPNE ) . Crosswinds were never really an issue and runway length left plenty of margin for error . My instructor made it a point to take me to 3000 X 60 fields to really get practice in ( the shortest the fligh schools insurance would cover ) . Depending on where you are training out of this may not be an issue . One more general habit of new pilots is over correcting and getting your self into an increasingly corrective state . This happens both laterally and vertically but in your case the vertical over correction is going to be the killer . If you are comming in and notice that you are low you add power , pitch up a bit and now you are too high . You pull power and pitch back down but this builds up some speed . Now you find your self over correcting all over the place to get back to a stabilized aproach . This is where the long final will help . You need to really get the plane on that 65Kt mark , trim it off , leave the power alone and fly it in . If you get bumped by a gust or a thermal wait a second and see if the termal settles then and only then should you come in with a small correction .
Short answer : no . Longer answer : you would need to design a carrier craft that could store large quantities of ammunition in safe conditions - enough to supply more than one fighter , perhaps several times . Having a lot of live ammo on board would increase the chances of something going off at a bad time . To continue : this ammunition then needs to be transferred to the fighter , while in flight at speeds of what , say 200 kts ? How do we do this ? Perhaps some sort of pneumatic tube would work , but only for the small stuff and you would have to make sure it would arrive safely . Transferring whole cassettes of rounds or bombs would need some other means . OK , so let 's say we transfer the ammo with some sort of failsafe on ( pins , etc. ) . So now the fighter pilot needs some means of removing the failsafe in order to use the stuff . Perhaps the only feasible solution would be a carrier aircraft that could take the fighter on board while refuelling and rearming . That is what they built the Akron zeppelin for in the 1930s ( Wikipedia link : <URL> ) . Do n't think it would be feasible with modern fighters , though .
Yes , it can be done , but to <URL> is a lot of work . You will also need to use a thinner gauge than 1/32 " to get the weight down . Note that one of the very <URL> was made of 0.2 mm ( 1/128 " ) sheet steel and flew well . However , building it required a corrugated substructure and a welded steel tube frame for strength . Still , it was heavier than necessary so its builder switched to aluminium for later designs . Generally , the tension length of steel ( strength relative to density ) is roughly equal with that of aluminium or titanium ; however , you will need to use high-grade steel to be comparable with aircraft-grade aluminium , so some of the price advantage will be lost . But there is a distinct disadvantage with higher-density materials . While their strength scales linearly with wall thickness , their <URL> scales with the square of their thickness . You will end up with a very delicate structure which will require careful handling to avoid local dimples and a stiff substructure to avoid early failure in compression . Also , introducing loads locally ( say , for a landing gear or an engine mount ) will require local reinforcements which should ideally be multi-layered and taper out in several steps . If you want to scale an existing structure down , make sure you place the stiffeners closer than what a scale construction would require . But I am sure you will prefer to bond the sheet steel to a styrofoam core . Use a higher-density styrofoam with better compression strength and be generous with local reinforcements , and the model should turn out fine .
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
The answer is no , but some shifting of the center of gravity ( c.g. ) due to attitude is unavoidable . Tanks are subdivided so the c.g. shift within a single tank is small . You can notice the sloshing after a landing when the aircraft has come to a complete stop after taxiing : It will gently rock back and forth due to the sloshing in the tanks . Some fighter aircraft use a sponge-like mesh in their tanks which is very effective in breaking up sloshing . It takes up approx . 2 % of internal volume . However , in a nose-up attitude the fuel will still collect at the back of the tanks , and again only distributing fuel over several tanks will prevent a significant c.g. shift . Subdividing also helps in spanwise direction to prevent high loads on wing ribs when the aircraft rolls . Remember , an F-16 has a top roll rate of 720 ° / s , which creates a significant inertial pressure on the wing 's tank walls .
In the US most General Aviation rentals are " Wet Hobbs Time " -- You are billed based on the actual clock time the engine was running ( in tenths of an hour ) , and fuel/oil are included in the rental price . This is attractive to renters because of the simplicity : You do n't have to pay the FBO separately for the fuel , oil , and aircraft , and you 're basically paying for the amount of " clock time " you spent in the plane . It 's easy to understand , especially for new students who may not quite grasp the concept of how the recording tachometer measures " time " . Hobbs billing is attractive to the FBO as well , for different reasons : Rentals are typically blocked out by clock hours ( " 10 AM to 2 PM " ) . Since booking is clock time billing based on clock time ( Hobbs hours ) makes sense . In practice the two numbers are usually close ( and when they 're not the error tends to favor the FBO ) . Let 's look at your " Tach vs. Hobbs " scenarios ( for the sake of simplicity let 's assume both flights are three " clock hours " chock-to-chock ) : Pattern Work Pattern work consists of three basic phases : Takeoff ( full throttle , high RPM - Tach runs faster than Hobbs ) Circuit ( low power , low RPM - Tach runs slower than Hobbs ) Descent &amp; Landing ( near idle power , very low RPM - Tach runs MUCH slower than Hobbs ) There might be a taxi in there for full-stop practice , but you 'll be close to idle there too . If we average this out over three hours of pattern work ( and assuming you and your instructor do n't commit suicide to break the monotony ) the Tach hour meter will be reading a number much lower than the Hobbs meter . In this scenario you might have 2.25 tach hours for your 3 Hobbs / Clock hours . 3-hour Cross Country A cross country consists of 5 phases : Takeoff/Climb ( full throttle , high RPM - Tach runs faster than Hobbs ) Cruise ( moderate throttle , moderate RPM - Tach and Hobbs run about the same speed ) Descent ( moderate-low throttle , moderate-low RPM - Tach may be a bit slower than Hobbs ) Circuit/Approach ( low power , low RPM - Tach runs slower than Hobbs ) Landing ( near idle power , very low RPM - Tach runs MUCH slower than Hobbs ) If we assume Phases 1 and 3 take about the same time they roughly cancel each other out . Phase 2 ( Cruise ) is a wash too , so we 're left with two brief periods where the tach is running noticeably slower than the Hobbs ( the pattern and landing at the destination ) . In this scenario you might have 2.85 Tach Hours for your 3 Hobbs / Clock hours . In both of these scenarios the FBO comes out ahead of the game -- they 're billing you for 3 hours of time , but their maintenance cycle is based on the tach . This might be enough to squeeze another day or two of profitable flying out of an airframe before it 's next annual or 100-hour inspection . There are scenarios where you can " beat " the Tach clock , but most of them involve being downright abusive to the aircraft/engine . For example if you flew that 3 hour cross country at low altitude and full throttle ( very high RPM ) you might rack up 3.3 tach hours for your 3 Hobbs hours . The FBO is basically stuck eating that maintenance expense . Along similar lines when renter pilots abuse an engine ( for example by leaving the mixture knob full rich for the whole flight ) the tach time does n't always tell the whole maintenance story - the mechanic 's time cleaning the plugs because the next renter could n't get through a runup has to be paid for somehow .
No The way that both pilots can log PIC is that the pilot using a view limiting device is logging PIC as sole manipulator and the safety pilot is logging PIC because he is acting PIC and a required crew member . If the flight is operating under an instrument clearance then the acting PIC must be instrument rated . If only the pilot with the view limiting device is rated then he is acting PIC and is the only one eligible to log PIC . The safety pilot is also not allowed to log SIC as a required crewmember without an instrument rating while operating under IFR . If you are in actual IMC then you should n't be logging anything and they other guy should n't be wearing a view limiting device . If you want the PIC time ask your friend to fly VFR or get yourself an instrument rating .
Insofar as it relates to MH370 the treaty sections Pondlife quoted would probably work quite smoothly if it were found by a government or someone working on behalf of the govt . The question arises as to what happens when James Cameron goes and finds it . ( Inevitable , am I right ? ) If it is located by a private party then the law would not be quite so clear . It would fall to courts and there would be legal claims falling under <URL> , salvage law and those might even be superceded by laws governing criminal investigation at sea . Generally under ocean salvage law the original owner continues to own it , but the salvaging party is entitled to a substantial award or prize . To complicate matters , there are two international conventions on salvage law , <URL> and a second <URL> . Some countries recognize one of them and object to the other . If Malaysian Airlines is no longer in business when it 's found that will make things even more unclear . Probably the best analog would be the Titanic case . The company that recovered most of the artifacts sued to be declared owner . A US court <URL> that as compensation for the cost of recovery they had the right to display the items , but they do not own them . After a series of court battles , an American company , RMS Titanic Inc ( RMST ) , emerged as the owner of the salvage rights , allowing it to keep possession and put on touring display the 5,900 artefacts it has lifted from the ship during six dives . <URL> So far no one owns them since White Star Line is long gone . The US and UK quickly hashed together a treaty to declare them a public memorial so the artifacts ca n't be sold off to private collectors . An international agreement signed by Britain and the US designates the Titanic as an international memorial and seeks to protect it from being plundered or damaged by unauthorised dives . from the same article * With all these things at play there is simply no telling what would happen with it .
It will either go through the airline 's existing air-to-ground system ( like the seat-back phones you pay $ 5/min for ) or they 've got a store-and-process-later arrangement with the card companies . ( Just because you ca n't use a phone does n't mean the airline ca n't , they just follow certain conditions better )
Stall warning systems generally function on the principle of measuring pressure distribution or angle of attack . As each aircraft will have a different type of stall warning system , the necessary test will vary by aircraft as well . Here , I will answer based on aircraft that I have experience with , but these concepts should cover the majority of light aircraft . Aural stall warning systems can generally be divided into two types , pneumatic and electric . Pneumatic Pneumatic stall warning systems are found in many light Cessna aircraft , including the 172 and 177 . The following system description is from the Cessna 177 Maintenance Manual : The system is composed of an adjustable plate on the left wing leading edge , connected to a reed type horn by means of plastic tubing . The horn is actuated approximately 5 to 10 miles per hour above stalling speed as a negative air pressure area at wing leading edge causes a reverse flow of air through horn . See this excerpt from Figure 15-6 in the C177 Maintenance Manual depicting the pneumatic stall warning system and it 's location in the aircraft : <URL> To test this type of system , air must be drawn out of the system through the leading edge scoop located in the left wing . The maintenance manual and <URL> call for a test procedure as follows : Prior to flight , test the pneumatic stall warning system and determine if it is functioning properly , [ ... ] by covering the opening in the left wing with a clean cloth , such as a handkerchief , and applying a slight suction by mouth to draw air through the horn . A properly functioning horn will provide a sound that is clearly audible . The sound is something like that from a kazoo . In actual practice , speaking personally and from my observations , the " clean cloth " is typically dispensed with . Alternately , a <URL> is available for a small price if you would rather not have to put your mouth on a strange airplane . Failure of these systems will typically be due to a problem either with the horn -- such as a loose reed , or with the leading edge scoop -- such as a cracked or misaligned scoop . Electric Electric systems operate on some of the same principles , but use a movable tab -- instead of pneumatic suction -- to sense the change pressure distribution . This type of system is found on aircraft such as the Cessna 182 , Piper Cherokee , and Beechcraft King Air . The system operation can be generalized as follows : pressure changes cause the tab to move up thereby sending an electrical signal which will sound a horn in the cockpit . In some cases the tab actuates a microswitch . In more complex systems the tab actuates a transducer which signals a stall warning computer . The simpler of these types of systems can typically be tested with aircraft electrical power on by manually lifting the tab and listening for the warning horn . With the more complex King Air system , testing is accomplished with a switch in the cockpit which tests the circuitry and horn . In this system , signals from the stall warning transducer are blocked out by a weight on wheels switch when on the ground , with the effect that lifting the tab will not allow for system testing . Flight Safety ( FSI ) offers the following system description in their King Air 200/B200 Pilot Training Manual : The stall warning system senses angle of attack through a lift transducer actuated by a vane mounted on the leading edge of the left wing ( Figure 15-10 ) . Angle of attack from the lift transducer and flap position signals are processed by the lift computer to sound the stall warning horn mounted on the copilot 's side of the cockpit . The horn sounds when the following conditions are present : Airspeed is 5 to 13 knots above stall , flaps are fully retracted . Airspeed is 5 to 12 knots above stall , flaps are in the APPROACH ( 40 % ) position . Airspeed is 8 to 14 knots above stall , flaps are fully extended . The system can be tested prior to flight by placing the STALL WARN TEST switch , located on the copilot 's left subpanel , in the TEST position . This simulates a stall condition and sounds the warning horn . <URL> Figure 15-10 from the FSI King Air 200/B200 Pilot Training Manual Other Systems Other types of systems exist with which I have no actual experience , either as a pilot or mechanic . I offer the following information without much real knowledge of it , but hopefully with good sources . Others more knowledgeable than I might be able to verify it . The Boeing 737 has a stick shaker type stall warning system to provide the required warning , rather than an aural warning system . The SmartCockpit.com <URL> document gives the following system description : Stall Warning System The stall warning " stick shaker " consists of two eccentric weight motors , one on each control column . They are designed to alert the pilots before a stall develops . The warning is given by vibrating both control columns . The system is armed in flig
For many medium and large sized jets the maximum gross takeoff weight is higher than the maximum landing weight . If the airplane has an emergency that requires an air return or other landing in the early part of flight , it is very likely overweight for landing . The plane has 3 options at this point : Land overweight Dump fuel ( if able ) Fly around at low altitude and high power to burn fuel For some airplanes , option 2 is not available . This includes airplanes that are not equipped to dump fuel ( not all airplanes have this capability or have the capability under MEL ) or are not approved to dump fuel at their current location and altitude . For these airplanes , only option 1 and 3 are available . The choice between option 1 and 2/3 comes down to what kind of emergency it is . If you have to be on the ground now , you wo n't care about being overweight , and will just put it down . If you have time and landing now is n't a priority , then you would choose to dump or burn fuel . If an airplane chooses to dump , they will generally choose one of two values of remaining fuel : fuel such that they land at the maximum landing weight absolute minimum safe fuel to land This choice comes down to how likely the landing will end in an accident . If you are sure the landing will be a non-event ( e.g. air return for anti-ice failure ) then you 'll likely just dump until landing wont be overweight . Conversely , if you have a control issue or something that may end badly , you want minimum fuel to lessen the potential for fire . In these cases the ARFF crew will spray the runway with foam to assist in reducing the fire potential .
I 'll answer for the US . As long as there 's no official slot program , airlines can schedule however much they want to an airport , beyond what it should be capable of handling . Now that does n't mean ATC lets a free-for all happen . Hopefully , various traffic management units are on it and aware of how much demand is scheduled and already airborne into the airport/region/area that there 's too much demand , and will implement various flow control programs to moderate the volume to what can be accepted into a specific sector ( Certain airways can get super busy and require these types of actions ) , or airport . These control programs will either slow aircraft farther out from their destination , hold , or give small to longer delays on the ground , depending on how over scheduled or limitations of weather at the destination . [ Begin edit poriton ] Since the other part of the question was n't there when I first answered , I 'll answer now . Slot controls vary heavily from airport to airport . In the US , LGA , LGB , DCA , SNA , and at times JFK are slot controlled , with a few others threatened to go to slots due to how many delays they impact the system ( SFO , EWR , and ORD ) . How each airport deals with the slot allocation is different due to how they got slot controls . DCA is controlled partly through congress , LGA and SNA are restricted due to noise controls . In the US , once an airline gets a slot , often times it 's considered transferable property , so airlines can sell them to each other if needed . Now if a slot is n't used and goes back to the airport , the airport can put it up for bid , or allow applications for it , again depending on how their program is structured . AT DCA , some slots are transferable , some require an act of congress to change or modify , and some can only be used for certain routes or types of cities .
Here are some things you can do , there are probably more . I 'm assuming you 're mainly interested in checking COM , not NAV . Controlled airport Check if you can hear the ATIS , Ground or Tower ; if you can , then at least you know you can receive . But you might as well just call Ground immediately and ask for a radio check . The <URL> is " how do you hear me ? " : Bowman Ground , N12345 , radio check please . How do you hear me ? Uncontrolled airport Listen to the AWOS , if there is one , to determine if you can receive . Ask UNICOM or another aircraft to give you a radio check . If none of those options are available then you can use a handheld airband transceiver to test . Tune it to the frequency you 're listening on and click transmit a few times , as if you 're turning on pilot-controlled lights ( PCL ) . If you hear the clicks in your headset , you can receive . To test transmission , do the opposite : click the transmit button on the yoke and listen on the handheld . Airborne You could call Approach , Center or FSS ; try activating the nearest PCL ( works best at night ) ; tune and identify a navaid ( that does n't verify COM works , but at least you know something 's working ) ; listen to 121.5 ( <URL> ) because there 's usually some bored pilot asking for sports scores on it and some other equally bored pilot yelling at him to " stop talking on <URL> " . Troubleshooting As always , if you have any problems with transmitting or receiving do some basic troubleshooting first : check you have the correct radio selected ; check you have the correct frequency ; check the volume controls on your headset and/or panel ; turn the squelch up/down/off ; check your headset is plugged in correctly ; if you have a right-seat passenger , see if they can hear/transmit ; and anything else you can think of .
This is for safety reasons . Take-Off and Landing are the two most critical phases of flight and thus , every additional step to ensure survivability , be it even just adjusting the light , is taken . The interior lights or cabin lights are adjusted to match the exterior environment , so that in case of an emergency , especially if the interior lights fail , your eyes are already accustomed to the light setting and you do not require additional valuable seconds for adjustment to a possibly darker or brighter environment . The lights are usually adjusted at dusk , night or dawn to match the exterior environment . <URL> If the cabing lights do not fail during an emergency , the dimmed light also makes it easier to identify the " EXIT " signs which illuminate and make the guidance lighting on the floor easier to follow . The bright emergency lighting is more prominent to identify when the cabin light is dimmed , saving valuable seconds as the aircraft is evacuated . This also ties in with having to raise the blinds on the windows . The blinds need to be raised during take-off and landing irrespective of the outside light situation , however , with a darker cabin , any outside light source , especially from fires or other hazards is easier to identify by the crew , making the decision process of whether one side could be inappropriate to use for evacuation faster , e.g. fire on port side -- > no evacation on that side . The blinds are therefore raised to allow a better view for cabin crew of the outside area and external aircraft parts , such as engines , wings , etc. . See also this related question : <URL>
They <URL> hot compressed air from inside the jet engines , cool it down and pass it into the cabin . There are outlet valves in the fuselage that allow stale air out and which control cabin pressure and air-refresh rates . A few aircraft types , such as the 787 , now use a compressor to take in air from under the aircraft . They do this because it can be more fuel-efficient ( not for any other reason ) . It is arguable whether it creates an additional fire hazard . See also <URL> <URL> <URL>
The first airplane with a cabin big enough for walking around was indeed a Sikorsky . This was the <URL> , also sometimes named " Le Grand " , a name which was given to an earlier , two-engined version . Oh , and the cabin included a washroom , too ! <URL> Sikorsky Russky Vityas ( picture <URL> ) It was the first four-engined airplane in the world and the biggest airplane of its time . It flew first on May 10 ( or 13 , depending on the source ) , 1913 . Quote from Wikipedia : After the Russky Vityaz 's first test flights between 10 and 27 May 1913 ( Old Style dates ) , it was established that a passenger could even walk around the cabins without causing any problems to stability . <URL> Early Le Grand version with two engines ( <URL> )
end question
start question
What do the various A340 configurations ( clean , 1 , 1 + F , etc. ) mean ?
To clarify lever movement direction and actual flap/slat combination , I attached a more detailed snippet from the A340 FCOM § 1.27.50 Note that in-flight selection of 2 above 193.5 kt equals config 1 * ( same as 1 + F but with more slats ) . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
AVTUR stands for AViation TURbine Fuel and is equivalent to JP-1 , at least in the UK and in as much as JP-1 no longer exists . I believe that the US military equivalent is JP8 which is Jet-A1 with additional additives , which differs from commercial Jet-A only by a lower freezing point . <URL> for Avtur with is the same defstan as for Jet-A1 . <URL> to an Exxon document gives a great deal of information for various aviation fuel oils . [ EDIT ] <URL> JP-8 is the military equivalent of Jet A-1 with the addition of corrosion inhibitor and anti-icing additives ; it meets the requirements of the U.S. Military Specification MIL-T-83188D . It is the dominant military jet fuel grade for NATO airforces . The UK also have a specification for this grade namely DEF STAN 91-87 AVTUR/FSII ( formerly DERD 2453 ) . NATO Code F-34 .
" Traffic in position " is a phrase to let the next aircraft inbound to a runway know that another aircraft is in lined up and waiting for departure on that runway . This procedure is used to line an aircraft up on the runway ( usually right after the previous arrival crosses the runway threshold , or previous departure begins their takeoff roll ) , to have them ready to go , when the previous arrival/departure clears the runway . At airports ( in the US ) , without ASDE-X ( a system to track airplanes on the ground ) , the tower controller is n't supposed to clear the next aircraft to land , until they have issued the takeoff clearance to the aircraft holding on the runway . ASDE-X locations can clear aircraft to land , as long as certain conditions in the ASDE-X equipment are working properly .
Short Answer Very high temperatures limit how much payload and/or fuel you can load on a plane . Engines To help you visualize it , in hot air the air molecules are more energetic , which means the engine will have hard time compressing hot air vs. cool air . Losing thrust . Wings Hot air -- with the molecules spaced farther apart -- has less density , which reduces the lift capability of wings . Hot and High Vegas is not only hot , but also high , which means the air pressure is already less than at sea-level . Each plane has its own performance charts , and on each flight , the flight dispatcher and crew make sure the weather , elevation , etc. , would allow a safe take-off and climb . A plane is configurable for such changing elements . For example using higher thrust setting , or more flaps to augment the lift . If you have a very heavy plane , hot and high situation , and a short runway , then things become very marginal -- Engine Out -- not just for the take-off run , but also in case of an engine out during take-off , i.e. , losing an engine . The plane still has to be able to climb . That 's why in places like Ethiopia , South Africa , Australia , etc. , airlines preferred1 quad-jet planes over twin-jet planes . To have bigger margin of safety in hot and/or high operations , i.e. , to be allowed to carry heavier loads . 1 When tri/quad-jets were commonly offered alongside <URL> twin-jets of same class . Example of Impact ( Map generated using <URL> ) A cargo MD-11 plane taking off from Ethiopia en-route to Europe ca n't take off fully fueled , and has to stop in Cairo for a re-fuel . Note that if Ethiopia were at sea-level or cooler , a direct flight would have been possible . Landing For landing in a hot and/or high airport , the landing speed will be higher , so what matters is the runway length available for landing . Again there are performance tables for that . Rest assured , those things are checked and double checked . And no one can tamper with reported weather , because it is very critical to flight safety . Also , planes do have their own temperature sensors . Newer planes can even alert the crew if the gross-weight , configuration , runway length , temperature , and elevation <URL> .
Most modern helicopters use two engines for added safety . This reduces the field of competing designs . Also , a good engineer will always leave proven details unchanged and focus on improving flawed designs . So it is hard to prove that a new design from an established helicopter company will truly be a clean-sheet design . The possible new designs from 1976 could be : <URL> : First flight 1974 , introduced 1975 . Note that the AS-355 is a two-turbine variant of the single-turbine AS-350 . <URL> : First flight 1975 , introduced 1979 . It has a single reciprocating engine and was indeed a clean-sheet design by Frank Robinson who started the <URL> in 1973 . He had worked previously at Bell Helicopter and Hughes Helicopters .
In the case of the 737 , the first series produced was the 737-100 . Not many were made . Then the 737-200 was built , which was very popular . The third generation of the 737 , known now as the " Classic " , had three variants , the -300 , the -400 , and the -500 . All are very similar , the significant difference being the size . The -300 has bigger ( more powerful , as well as physically larger ) engines than the older -200 did , and a longer cabin . With its success , Boeing decided to lengthen the cabin further , resulting in the -400 . They also made a variant that was essentially the length of the shorter -200 , and since it came along third it got the next designation , the -500 . The next generation of 737 's , known as the " Next Generation " , runs from the -600 through the -900 , and this time Boeing decided to make the numbers correspond with the fuselage length , so the -600 is about as long as the -200 and -500 ( roughly ) , the -700 is comparable to the -300 , the -800 is longer as the -400 was , and the -900 is longer than anything before . Now they 're out of numbers , and so the NEXT generation of 737 's , known as the Max , gets single digit numbers ... the Max -7 ( i.e. 737-7 ) corresponds roughly to the length of the -700 , the Max -8 to the -800 , the Max -9 to the -900 , and so on . The point of this long discussion is simply that the numbers following the dash represent different variants of the aircraft . In some cases , it may be a new generation design ; in other cases it may simply be a different fuselage length . As the <URL> discusses , HOW those numbers are chosen is sometimes driven more by marketing than it is by mathematical progression . Often , though , the higher number indicates a later version , and often-but-not-always , a newer generation . But you really have to know the particular aircraft line to know which it is .
For the lights on the A340-200 / -300 see <URL> page 129 . For the lights on the A340-500 / -600 see <URL> page 133 . Use the following link to see the lighting regulations for commercial aircraft - <URL> Use of lights AIM 4 − 3 − 23 . Use of Aircraft Lights was updated in the latest edition . Guidance about using aircraft lights during ground operations also appears in AC91-73B , " Part 91 and Part 135 Single-Pilot Procedures during Taxi Operations . " h. Use of Exterior Aircraft Lights to Make Aircraft More Conspicuous . ( 1 ) General . Exterior aircraft lights may be used to make an aircraft operating on the airport surface more conspicuous . Pilots may use various combinations of exterior lights to convey their location and intent to other pilots . Certain exterior lights may also be used in various combinations to signal whether the aircraft is on a taxiway or on a runway , in position on the runway but holding for takeoff clearance , crossing an active runway , or moving down the runway for takeoff . NOTE : Because adherence to the guidelines in this AC are voluntary and aircraft equipment varies , pilots are cautioned not to rely solely on the status of an aircraft 's lights to determine the intentions of the pilot ( s ) of the other aircraft . Additionally , pilots must remember to comply with operating limitations on the aircraft 's lighting systems . ( 2 ) Because adherence to the guidelines in this AC are voluntary and aircraft equipment varies , pilots are cautioned not to rely solely on the status of an aircraft 's lights to determine the intentions of the pilot ( s ) of the other aircraft . Additionally , pilots must remember to comply with operating limitations on the aircraft 's lighting systems . ( 2 ) Exterior Lights . To the extent possible and consistent with aircraft equipage , operating limitations , and pilot procedures , pilots should illuminate exterior lights as follows : ( a ) Engines Running . Turn on the rotating beacon whenever an engine is running . ( b ) Taxiing . Prior to commencing taxi , turn on navigation , position , anti-collision , and logo lights , if available . To signal intent to other pilots , consider turning on the taxi light when the aircraft is moving or intending to move on the ground , and turning it off when stopped , yielding , or as a consideration to other pilots or ground personnel . Strobe lights should not be illuminated during taxi if they will adversely affect the vision of other pilots or ground personnel . ( c ) Crossing a Runway . All exterior lights should be illuminated when crossing a runway . CAUTION : Pilots should consider any adverse effects to safety that illuminating the forward facing lights will have on the vision of other pilots or ground personnel during runway crossings . ( d ) Entering the Departure Runway for Takeoff or LUAW . When entering a runway after being cleared for takeoff , or when taxiing into position and hold , pilots should make their aircraft more conspicuous to aircraft on final behind them and to ATC by turning on lights ( except landing lights ) that highlight the aircraft 's silhouette . Strobe lights should not be illuminated if they will adversely affect the vision of other pilots . ( e ) At Night , and When Cleared to LUAW . Consider lining up slightly ( approximately 3 feet ) to the left or right of the centerline ( CL ) to enable a landing aircraft to visually differentiate your aircraft from the runway lights . ( f ) Takeoff . Landing lights should be turned on when takeoff clearance is received , or when commencing takeoff roll at an airport without an operating control tower .
I got the answer . ' C ' is commercial , ' G ' general aviation , ' T ' taxi , etc. . Update : <URL> , under section " Type of flight " , it lists S if scheduled air service N if nonscheduled air transport operation G if general aviation M if military X if other than any of the defined categories above . But types C and T is n't there .
There is no all-encompassing list of ' banned ' medications publically available for Australia . In the regulations there is a ' catch all ' to the effect of " pilots must not take any medications which may inhibit their ability to fly safely " . If you want specific advice on a specific medication , why not give CASA a call ? That or you can see a DAME ( which is a GP qualified to do aviation medical assessments ) . What you can find out there is general advice though . Although questions such as <URL> and <URL> refer to the US system , the Australian restrictions are not too dissimilar . Broardly speaking , Ritalin and other ' depressants ' are incompatible with flying . Bi-polar disorder faces many restrictions but stable depression is manageable . I did hear somewhere that you need to be off antidepressants for 12 months though . Diabetes and blood thinning medications are OK but subject to regular testing and scrutiny . As an aside , sometimes CASA , instead of outright refusing the medical , will place restrictions on it instead . This can be things like you must fly by day VFR only , or you can only fly with a qualified pilot next to you . EDIT : I found <URL> which has a list of medications to stay away from . It 's not exhaustive but it 's a start
Windsocks come in various sizes and speeds , but an FAA Standard Wind Sock aligns with the wind at 3 knots , and is fully extended at 15 knots <URL> . A typical wind sock ( at least around here ) looks something like this : The stripes are actually useful : The first stripe indicates a 3-knot breeze ( The wind sock has turned and aligned with the wind - usually you should look for an anemometer near the wind sock to determine if there 's any appreciable wind because often the first segment is held open by the frame . ) The second stripe is ~ 6 knots The third stripe is ~ 9 knots The fourth stripe is ~ 12 knots The last stripe is 15 knots or higher If the windsock is missing you probably should n't be at the airport . If the pole is missing you 're probably on your way to Oz . ( You can actually get a far more precise estimation if you 're willing to do some trigonometry , but this works well enough for most purposes . )
The only passenger needs that would result in a non-scheduled landing would be a medical emergency or acts/threats of violence of the level that prompt removal of the passenger is needed ( with law enforcement coordination ) . A passenger forgetting his wallet would not result in a diversion . An aircraft deviation to enplane more passengers and proceeding to the scheduled destination would be a highly unusual situation and would not be for passenger needs , it would be for operational needs .
<URL> there is a nice tabular representation of the requirements for each level . <URL> provides a handy summary : Full Flight Simulators ( FFS ) FAA FFS Level A - A motion system is required with at least three degrees of freedom . Airplanes only . FAA FFS Level B - Requires three axis motion and a higher-fidelity aerodynamic model than does Level A . The lowest level of helicopter flight simulator . FAA FFS Level C - Requires a motion platform with all six degrees of freedom . Also lower transport delay ( latency ) over levels A &amp; B . The visual system must have an outside-world horizontal field of view of at least 75 degrees for each pilot . FAA FFS Level D - The highest level of FFS qualification currently available . Requirements are for Level C with additions . The motion platform must have all six degrees of freedom , and the visual system must have an outside-world horizontal field of view of at least 150 degrees , with a Collimated ( distant focus ) display . Realistic sounds in the cockpit are required , as well as a number of special motion and visual effects .
It 's used at uncontrolled airports to tell approach controllers that you 've got the AWOS/ASOS there . I believe the tower at KMCC is temporary ( probably for firefighting ) . The <URL> 4-3-26 is snappily titled Operations at Uncontrolled Airports With Automated Surface Observing System ( ASOS ) / Automated Weather Sensor System ( AWSS ) / Automated Weather Observing System ( AWOS ) , and says : If ATC service is required for IFR/SVFR approach/departure or requested for VFR service , the pilot should advise the controller that he/she has received the one − minute weather and state his/her intentions . EXAMPLE − " I have the ( airport ) one − minute weather , request an ILS Runway 14 approach . " It 's also in the <URL> : ONE-MINUTE WEATHER − The most recent one minute updated weather broadcast received by a pilot from an uncontrolled airport ASOS/AWSS/AWOS . And this from the <URL> 5-10-2 : Automated weather observing systems may be set to provide one minute updates . This one minute data may be useful to the pilot for possible weather trends . Controllers provide service based solely on official weather , i.e. , hourly and special observations
If a door is put into armed mode , it will trigger the <URL> when the door is opened . Prior to departure ( usually before engine startup ) , all the aircraft doors are placed into the armed ( or automatic ) mode by the cabin crew . Methods of arming vary from aircraft to aircraft , but ultimately the girt bar ( a metal bar attached to the door end of the slide ) is physically attached to brackets either in or adjacent to the door sill . [ ... ] If a rapid evacuation is required and the doors are opened while " armed " , the opening of the door pulls the slide pack out of the bustle ( because the girt bar is physically attached to the aircraft floor ) This is also the reason for the famous <URL> : DOORS TO ARRIVAL AND CROSSCHECK " Flight attendants , doors to arrival and crosscheck . " Meaning : Occasionally heard as " disarm your doors and crosscheck , " and announced by the lead flight attendant or purser as a plane approaches the gate . The intent is to verify disarming of the emergency escape slides attached to the doors . When armed , a slide will automatically deploy the instant its door is opened . Disarmed , it needs to be deployed manually . On departure the slides are armed to facilitate an emergency evacuation . ( You might hear this as " doors to automatic . " ) Upon docking , they 're disarmed to keep them from billowing into the boarding tunnel or onto the apron during servicing . The orange or yellow tape is a visual indicator for ground workers or ramp agents that the doors are armed or not armed . The visual indicator can vary , it can also be built into the door lock mechanism , triggering a visual indicator externally if the door is locked and armed . In the following picture , the orange tape is not strapped over the window , which should indicate an unarmed door . In the video that this image is taken from , the flight attendant has just locked and possibly armed the door , the other flight attendant would place the orange tape over the door window during " cross-check " . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Exupery747 )
The control problems are caused by a shift of the aerodynamic forces . In subsonic flight , they are mostly created in the forward part of the wing ( the lift increase with angle of attack works at the quarter chord point of a wing , regardless of sweep ) , while in supersonic flow they work equally over the full chord . The center of lift in pure supersonic flow is at mid chord , and in reality the aerodynamic center shifts slowly back when the aircraft accelerates through Mach 1 and more of the surface is exposed to supersonic flow . Since the c.g. position is mostly fixed ( Concorde pumped fuel between tanks to shift the c.g. ) , this shift must be compensated with elevator deflection . The elevator must move trailing edge up , which creates a break in the airfoil contour , which in turn creates a heavy shockwave at high subsonic and supersonic flight speed . This shock causes flow separation and can lead to elevator reversal . Only when the fixed part of the horizontal tail can be moved , too , or you have a full-flying tail ( the whole stabilizer is moved , not only the rear part of it ) to create the needed lift change without a contour break , the aircraft can be trimmed for both subsonic and supersonic speed . The benefit of the X-1 was a stabilizer with variable incidence , which the P-51 lacked . Sweep would have helped , too , but was not really necessary .
In addition to repaints , aircraft are also periodically washed and treated to maintain the paint quality and reduce the build up of dust/grime/salt and other particulates . There are automated systems installed at some airports to clean airplanes as they taxi over these areas . Think of it as a drive through car wash , but for airplanes . The very first applications of these were actually for the US Navy because they have a requirement to wash aircraft due to their proximity to seawater . A company called tammermatic developed a system for the navy to clean airplanes directly on the field using a set of powerful jets . Images from the <URL> <URL> <URL> Then there is the <URL> ( PDF brochure ) , developed by PMW ( a company that makes concrete pumps ) to wash aircraft automatically . It was first used by Lufthansa in 1997 ( image cc : ARNE DEDERT / AFP ) : <URL>
Generally when used in ATC movement instructions the word " company " means " The other aircraft operated by your company " . In this context it 's a convenient shorthand for controllers and pilots : If two aircraft from the same operator are going to the same place on the airport ( one may be told " Follow company " ) , or to assist with visual separation and sequencing on approaches . In other cases it can mean " the airline ( company ) you work for " ( such as being instructed to taxi to a ramp and " call company for your gate assignment " - the distinction is made based on the context of the request or instruction ) . Note that this is not standard phraseology : despite being widely used <URL> or the <URL> .
There are specific protocols that procedurally are required to be followed . Insofar as brake inspection is concerned , it would have been obvious from the trucks that there was no brake fire . It 's also obvious that there 's not a major amount of smoke coming from the brakes . As they approached the landing gear , they would have smelled serious brake heating . Glowing brakes would be seen then if not sooner . A close visual inspection for very light smoke and sensing the heat coming off the brakes would give them an idea of the rate of brake vaporization . It 's a subjective judgement based on what they see and feel . As I understand it , tires that dangerously overheat will explode before melting , and that 's why thermal plugs are used which melt and deflate the tire to prevent their exploding . At a landing in Nandi , Fiji ( short runway ) with what turned out to be a tailwind in a 747-200 at near-max landing weight , we had to use max braking , and I called for huffers to cool things down , and of course for an inspection . I exited the aircraft as quickly as possible to see how bad things were . I was amazed and alarmed to see thick dark grey smoke pouring from the body and wing landing gear wheels . I thought we were close to having a fire . However , the ground personnel assured me that there was no cause for alarm , that the smoke was just brake vaporization that would shortly stop as they blew air on them . It did , and after refueling we departed without incident .
Why does the F-35 Lightning II have only 1 crew when the F/A -18 Hornet had 2 ? According to <URL> involved in the development of the F-35 , the F 35 is a single seat aircraft because : New advances in avionics and sensor fusion technology , which can allow a single pilot to perform missions that previously required two crew members . Given the fact that the F-35 is build around the concept of <URL> there is less cockpit workload for most strike missions . Consequently , the need for a co pilot is a lot less . The single-seat configuration also maximises commonality between the three variants of the F 35 thereby keeping development costs low . The survivability of the F 35 includes limiting the probability of detection . Ergo , a two seater version can very easily increase the RCS of the F 35 thereby compromising its stealth capabilities <URL> That said , one major drawback that remains on the one seat <URL> is the demand on one <URL> to assimilate and decide on all the information available .
You keep it clean : adding flaps adds drag . You can see this in Section 3 of the Cessna POH , which includes a Maximum Glide ( distance ) diagram . In the C172S POH that I checked , it notes that maximum distance is achieved with : SPEED 68 KIAS PROPELLER WINDMILLING FLAPS UP ZERO WIND ( A tailwind would extend your range , but only in one direction . ) Two other points worth noting : If the engine failure also caused an electrical failure then you wo n't be able to use the flaps anyway ( in models with electrically operated flaps ) You might want to reduce your gliding distance if the best landing spot is relatively close by , and extending flaps is one way to do that ( along with slipping , S-turns or other maneuvers , and extending the gear )
end question
start question
Aerospace Engineer program in EU ?
Updated : February 2016 Keep in mind this is aerospace engineering , but some places offer stuff like aviation management , which might be more what you are after , depending on what you want to do . TU Delft is more tailored to the former . While most of the topics of interest you mention will only appear in some capacity in the TU Delft AE BSc , they will appear in more detail and focus in certain MSc tracks . I 'm not sure which you are after . While you mentioned Sweden , they do the first year BSc in Swedish , which stops you unless you know the language ( All MSc is English ) . KTH ( Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan ) , Stockholm is normally considered the best TU in Sweden and does AE as MSc . Again , it might not match what you 're looking for . Scotland has plenty of programs - a search in the UCAS serach engine should suffice . Wherever you go , it 's a big cultural question as well . What are your expectations of for instance social life ? There are two similar but still different countries &amp; cultures . I am a former BSc Aerospace Engineering student at TU Delft . In my opinion , the uni has great facilities and it 's for most part a very good ( of course with the occasional bad lemons that you would find anywhere ) . Student teams are also of very high quality . The topics you mention thought would probably be more dealt with in the master program however . The BSc . is pretty ' heavy ' engineering ( calculations/exercises ) for most part with a lot of conceptual and a little practical work to try and brighten up your day :) TU Delft may be good but you wo n't get through it on a banana peel . First year dropout rate is ~ 55 % according to one <URL> . University <URL> says 76 % however . A minority pull it off in the official three years but most take longer . Important consideration if you 're paying the non-EU fee .
CVG stands for Compressor Variable Geometry . ( e.g. , <URL> ) . This is a technique to change the pitch angle of the compressor vanes , much like a variable pitch propeller . Wikipedia does not have an article for the use in aircraft ( probably because it 's not used all that much ) , but does have an article on a <URL> which is closely related ( for non-car-enthusiasts : a turbocharger compresses inlet air with help of a turbine at the exhaust ) . Basically , this system lets you control the pressure ratio independent of the RPM . Advantages include More efficient settings based on air pressure ( altitude / temperature ) . You basically decouple the turbine stage from the compressor stage ( but instead of a gearbox , you use the vane angle ) . This way , you can optimize your compressor stage to different conditions while keeping the turbine RPM at the most efficient value . More efficient cruise performance without compromising TO/GA capabilities . Aircraft engines are heavily overdimensioned to account for take-off power and contingencies , which means a bigger engine than strictly necessary and thus less efficiency in cruise . This can now be partially mitigated by varying the compressor vanes pitch for optimal efficiency during cruise and optimal power during TO/GA Higher engine RPM possible during approach . Normally , to keep your engines spooled up for eventualities , you need to increase their power , and as such need to increase drag with flaps and spoilers to keep the speed down . Now , you can spool up the engine to a high RPM with low compression ratio , and increase power relatively fast without having to overcome engine inertia by increasing the compression ratio by increasing the vane angle .
Block time starts when the aircraft is pushed back from the gate , and ends when it arrives at the corresponding gate . It is the total time the aircraft is in use , typically only calculated for revenue movements . Imagine a flight : Pushback 1000 Taxi 1030 Takeoff 1035 Touchdown at destination airport 1445 Taxi to gate 1500 Total block time is 5 hours
No , EASA can not access anything . You will be asked to bring your medical records to the exams . Neither EASA nor your examining doctor is able to access any of your medical records without your consent . It 's restricted personal information . Some countries already have medical records in digital ( computerized ) form , but many still rely on written data . In any case , EU institutions have no jurisdiction outside of EU . You will also be given a questionnaire that will include a checkbox for any known medical conditions you have ( or had in the past ) . I do n't know what your condition is/was , but it might be a good idea to consult a private examiner first before checking anything on the list that might prevent you from getting a certificate issued .
The Boeing 737 fuselage ( among other components ) in Wichita for a variety of reasons Before Boeing sold the Wichita portion of the Boeing Commercial Airplanes business to the Onex Corporation in 2005 , Boeing was manufacturing structures for their aircraft in Wichita . The engineering , manufacturing , supply chain , and storage resources already existed in Wichita , so it would n't make sense to try to move all of that back in house at another location . The cost to transport large components from Wichita to Renton or Everett via train is likely more economical than to manufacture and store them at the final assembly plant On a similar vein , Boeing also uses the modified 747 <URL> to transport components between suppliers and Boeing . Wichita is one of the cities that the Dreamlifter flies into , landing at McConnell Air Force Base .
If the airflow is parallel to the axis of rotation of a propeller , the resulting thrust force will also be parallel to the axis of rotation and act on the center of the propeller disc . If , however , the airflow hits the propeller at an angle of less than 90 ° , the resulting force will tilt towards the flow direction and shift away from the center of the propeller disc in a direction orthogonal to the directional change . Example : You fly in a single-engined plane , the two-bladed prop is spinning clockwise when seen from the pilot 's view and you push the left pedal such that the aircraft flies in a sideslip . If both propeller blades are level , nothing much changes , but if the propeller turns another 90 ° , both blades will see very different flow conditions ( see the sketch below ) : For the upper blade , which moves from left to right , the sum of circumferential speed ( $ \ omega \ cdot r _ { Prop } $ , red ) and air speed ( $ v _ { \ infty } $ , blue ) is bigger than that of the lower blade ( black arrows ) and hits the blade at a larger effective angle of attack $ \ alpha _ { eff } $ . Thus , the lift force created by the upper blade is much bigger , and as a result it will act at a point on the upper half of the propeller disc . The same happens when the plane flies at a high angle of attack and high power ( ground run of a taildragger , or climb ) and the airflow hits the propeller disc slightly from below . Now the thrust force will move to the right and tilt slightly downward . This will cause the aircraft to turn to the left and must be compensated with right rudder . This effect is sometimes called p-factor , but this is not a factor in an equation , but something you need to factor in when flying at high angle of attack . Note that the rotational component of the prop wash will cause a similar effect when it hits the rudder at an angle , adding to the leftward tendency of the plane .
The code for Markham Airport , CNU8 , is a Transport Canada identifier . The codes for the other airports are <URL> . ICAO airport codes always consist of 4 letters . Markham Airport does not have an ICAO airport code .
The most important characteristic for a jet engine compressor is high mass flow rate with light weight and if possible small size . For the same size , the flow rate can be increased by operating the compressor at higher rpm . But sliding components do n't allow that . Only the axial and centrifugal compressors can achieve sufficient flow rates , so they are used . Centrifugal compressors achieve higher pressure ratio for weight , but are larger , so they were used in many early designs and now remain in small turboprops while larger engines use axial compressors for their compactness .
Engine thrust is measured in flight by EPR - Engine Pressure Ratio . EPR is the ratio of the turbine exhaust pressure divided by the pressure measured at the fan or inlet . Indeed this is the measure used for a number of engines for setting thrust . More detailed airborne testing of engines is done during development , most manufacturers have airborne testbeds . The parameters recorded here probably measure in the hundreds or even thousands ...
Your question is based on an incomplete picture of how aircraft work , I 'm afraid . As a passenger on any major airline , the only lead you are likely to encounter is in the shielding on the security x-ray machines . Fact : leaded fuel is relatively uncommon First , tetraethyl lead is only present in what we call avgas - it is most often sold these days as 100LL ( 100-octane low-lead ) aviation gasoline . Avgas is only used in piston ( reciprocating piston ) engines . Very few commercial aircraft in this day and age are powered by piston engines ; most airliners are turbine-powered ( jet or turboprop engines ) and are fueled by Jet A , a variation on kerosene . Fact : exhaust should n't be in the cabin anyway Second , even if you happen to be flying in a light aircraft with a piston engine ( or old , think Douglas DC-3 in Alaska ) , you should n't actually encounter any lead . The cabin air intakes are positioned intentionally to avoid any exhaust entering the cabin . If exhaust carrying lead particles was reaching the cabin , you 've probably got bigger and more immediate problems with carbon monoxide poisoning anyway .
Checklists can be in any language . For general aviation I 've seen check-lists in a variety of languages . Sometimes in the local language and sometimes in English - that 's in Germany , Spain and Sweden . Spain in particular seemed to have everything in Spanish . From colleagues I 've heard that France is similar , most GA check-lists are in French . For commercial aviation it varies by airline . Air France , for instance , publishes its check-lists in French ( an example of these can be seen in the <URL> )
FAR 91.3 states that any pilot in command may deviate from any regulation or rules to the extent needed to deal with the emergency . That includes entering restricted or prohibited airspace . In the example that you suggested , yes you could do so and land at the Groom Lake flight test facility at KXTA , provided you could reach their controllers or contact Nellis Approach Control declaring an emergency . I will say that if you do enter R-4808 N and land there , do n't expect them to roll out the welcome mat . You will be immediately met by USAF Military Police who will arrest you , most likely at gunpoint , and spend several hours , if not days , there or outside the compound being extensively questioned by Air Force Security personnel , the FBI and Homeland Security . Your aircraft will be impounded and inspected , possible indefinitely , and search warrants issued for your property . If they find out that you faked an emergency to enter that compound , you are in very serious trouble and face a variety of federal charges including trespass upon a classified installation and whatever else the DoJ can throw at you . In addition , you would need a very , very good reason to even be anywhere near Area 51 , as it is in the middle of a military reservation geographically the size of the nation of Switzerland in the middle of south central Nevada . There are no published routes over the airspace and all commercial and civilian traffic is kept far , far away . Details about the airfield are not published on government aeronautical charts or regional A/FDs . See the VFR sectionals and enroute charts below . <URL> <URL> While Area 51 is a pretty extreme example , people have had emergencies and landed in military or other restricted facilities . The usual response from the authorities is to detain and question you to determine what happened and inspect the aircraft to verify your story . If it 's a legitimate emergency , no harm is done and they will release you and the aircraft ; the NTSB will file and incident report and that 's it .
This answer applies to the AVRO RJ ( BAe 146 ) , because this is the aircraft I 've flown . Other aircraft may or may not have similar features/issues/restrictions . Reasons for APU use in mid-air For takeoff , the APU bleed-air can be used to supply the cabin air pressure system to reduce load on engines . This leads to a significant reduction in runway length required . This is routinely used on short runways . Similar reason for the landing , where , for the missed approach/go-around phase , a high climb gradient is required . For example in mountainous areas or combined with icing conditions , where use of engine bleed air is limited , the APU bleed air can feed the cabin pressurization . During flight , when in icing conditions . Similar reason as above . The air-frame anti icing system uses that much bleed-air , there is not much left for cabin pressurization ( or the other way round ) . If the APU bleed-air is used to pressurize the cabin , the ( already low ) climb gradient is improved . During flight , in the event of a generator failure . The generator of the APU can replace one failed generator of an engine . To save engine life . If APU bleed air ( - to pressurize cabin ) is used for normal takeoff , the peak engine temperatures will be lower during takeoff . This increases engine life as the peak engine temperature is the main factor of engine life . It 's significantly cheaper to replace an APU than an engine . In all of the above cases , there are restrictions on the operation of the APU . It may not light-up above 15 ' 000 ft or operation above 25 ' 000 ft is not allowed or not recommended . General operating rules for the APU ( common sense when using turbines ) recommend to use bleed air only after couple of minutes warm-up after startup . Likewise , on shutdown , it should be left running without load to cool down for a few minutes before switching off . The exact timings differ greatly between APU models . Procedures Before Takeoff , If the API is not used during climb , the APU is normally shut down during taxi checks . If the pilots decide to use the APU during climb , it is started during normal engine start . In this case the APU bleed air is used to feed the cabin pressurization . After Takeoff depending on the model of the APU ( and following airline procedures ) , the APU usage is limited to a specified time or altitude . Before reaching this limit , the APU has to be shut down . ( cabin air changeover to the engine bleed air , cool-off period of the APU , switching off ) During Flight In case of a technical problem or emergency , the Abnormal Checklist will suggest or dictate the use of the APU for the remainder of the flight . For example : A generator problem , the APU generator replace the failed generator . This may impose limits to flight altitude and duration . Before Landing Usually after passing 10 ' 000 feet , the APU is started and before the final checks , the cabin pressurization system is switched to the APU .
There are lots of problems . Sight is just generally important when flying . Even in airliners , most approaches are still flown manually and often visually . Any significant degradation of sight is going to be a problem when flying any type of airplane . Red/Green/White <URL> are used by air traffic control in the event of a radio failure . The inability to differentiate red from green in this case would be an enormous safety hazard ( e.g. did tower just clear me to land or tell me to keep circling ? ) <URL> / <URL> lights use colors to indicate whether you 're above , below , or on the proper glide slope for a runway . While it 's possible to land without them , it 's a significant reduction in safety . Lights at airports are color-coded to indicate whether a particular road is a runway or taxiway , how close you are to the end of the runway , that a runway is in use , etc. . Landing on a taxiway is usually a bad idea , so it 's best if you can tell the difference . The navigation lights on airplanes themselves are color-coded . The right wingtip has a green light , the left wingtip has a red light , and the back has a white light . This lets other pilots easily determine which way you 're going and , in case of conflict , who should yield ( seeing a red light on another aircraft means that they 're to your right and , therefore , you should yield to [ i.e. divert around ] them . ) Colors are used on aviation charts to indicate all kinds of things , including class of airspace , type of special-use airspace , whether a field is controlled or not , type of route , elevation of terrain , where you should expect to see city lights at night , etc. . You need to be able to distinguish these things quickly and accurately , even in low-light conditions . Some cockpit instruments use colors to indicate various things . These include color bands on airspeed indicators , color of annunciator lights or their on-screen equivalents ( i.e. red for warning , amber for caution , green for gear down , etc. , ) echo intensity on a weather radar display , etc. .
In the US , taxi time can be logged . <URL> says the pilot must log ( emphasis mine ) : Total flight time or lesson time . And <URL> says ( emphasis mine ) : Flight time means : ( 1 ) Pilot time that commences when an aircraft moves under its own power for the purpose of flight and ends when the aircraft comes to rest after landing ; or ( 2 ) For a glider without self-launch capability , pilot time that commences when the glider is towed for the purpose of flight and ends when the glider comes to rest after landing . Note that in reality , general aviation pilots ( I do n't know about airline pilots ) usually just log whatever is on the <URL> , which may include some time sitting still on the ramp doing post-startup checks , setting up avionics etc. . That might not be strictly correct per the regulations , but absolutely no one cares . <URL> is closely related .
is the speed reported in this story wrong ? No No it is not a misprint that the SR-72 is intended to be capable of Mach 6 From the <URL> : Envisioned as an unmanned aircraft , the SR-72 would fly at speeds up to Mach 6 , or six times the speed of sound . At this speed , the aircraft would be so fast , an adversary would have no time to react or hide . The SR-72 's design incorporates lessons learned from the HTV-2 , which flew to a top speed of Mach 20 , or 13,000 mph , with a surface temperature of 3500 ° F. Yes Yes it is not true that Mach 6 is necessarily 4567.2423 MPH From <URL> : <URL> Cmglee . License : CC by SA 3
Positioning cargo such that the center of gravity of the plane is within a certain range is essential , but is there any advantage to having the center of gravity closer to some ideal point within the acceptable envelope ? There is no one ideal point for all large cargo aircraft as defined by a c.g. expressed as the percent of the mean aerodynamic chord ( % mac from here on ) . There are a lot of aircraft model and operational variations . The general idea for large aircraft like the 747 is to put the c.g. as far aft as possible while keeping undesirable operational characteristics within reason . The farther aft the c.g. is the lower the fuel burn because as you move the c.g. aft ( toward the center of lift of the wing ) , the pitch down moment of the wing lift decreases and thus the tailplane has to supply less downward force , which means there will be less overall drag and fuel efficiency goes up ( the aerodynamicists here can probably say that more succinctly ) . The operating envelopes of the airplane define how far aft you are allowed to put the c.g. . There are multiple constraints insofar as determining the aft most limit . Two obvious ones are controllability in engine-out situations and in turbulence . One does n't always try to put the c.g. just forward of the aft limit , though . There can be other considerations . For example , on 747-100/200 / 400 aircraft at typical weights , the aft c.g. limit is 33.0 % mac , but a common aiming point for the zero fuel weight c.g. is 26.6 % mac . While I do n't know all the reasons for using 26.6 % , one is that that is the location of the wing gear , so if for some reason you could n't extend the body gear , the aircraft might sit on its tail when landing depending on how much fuel you had left and how far aft of 26.6 % you are . Loadmasters for a given aircraft are a good source for what the usual aiming point is for the c.g. Would additional control surface drag be caused by cargo loaded right on the edge of operating standards ? Yes , if you had the c.g. up against the forward limit , the tailplane would have to generate a greater downward force than otherwise , and that would mean more drag . Also , on wide-body aircraft , if you were up against the maximum lateral imbalance moment , you 're going to have aileron drag that you otherwise would not have . Would finding an optimal loading be computationally complex ? Not really , especially if its the case that all pallets/containers are going to be off-loaded at a single destination . If there 's more than one off-loading destination it gets more complicated since you 'd want those pallets getting off first to be positioned such that you could move them to the cargo door without having to move pallets not getting off . There might be other constraints as well . For example , let 's say you had a 30,000 lb pallet to be put aboard a 747-100/200 / 400 . The only area that can take that kind of weight in a single size M pallet is over the wing box . That limits you to using one side of three side-by-side position pairs . Let 's say you put that pallet on the left side of the aft most side-by-side position pair . That 's fine , but you have now limited the right side to a max of 6250 lb . You also have to ensure that you do n't violate cumulative loading limits from the front of the aircraft to the middle and from the aft to the middle , and a few other things besides . Computer programs for doing weight &amp; balance for large cargo aircraft have been able to handle all of these things since the 1980s . I wrote a DOS application in 1988 that did all these things and was eventually used by three cargo carriers . It was finally phased out in 2016 . The algorithm it used was straight forward . Sort the pallets by weight and allocate from heaviest to lightest . Put the heaviest in the position closest to the target c.g. . Then put the next pallet either aft or forward of the previous depending on which will produce a c.g. closest to the target , and so forth . After each position allocation , it checked to see if any limitation had been violated . If so , it reallocated until there were no violations . Even on slow computers of the DOS era , it never took more than a few seconds to complete . How many cargo pallets/containers fit in a large cargo aircraft ? Depends on the size of the containers and the size of the aircraft . There are a lot of choices . Go to this <URL> to see common sizes . For 747s carrying civilian cargo , size code M is probably the most used on the main deck , with either 29 or 30 positions . For military cargo size code B was that size I mostly saw on the 747 main deck , usually with 33 aboard . The lower holds on 747s had a lot of variability insofar as the ULDs used down there . If you want to explore 747 cargo position configurations , go to this <URL> . The POSITION CONFIG menu will allow you to select different configurations between 30 , 29 , and 33 main deck positions . After selecting a configuration , you can scroll down to see the arrangement ( or pres
Drag ( and lift ) increases with density . Density decreased and so did drag . So at the same power , you can fly faster . Now I do n't know whether reduction of power of a normally aspirated spark-ignition reciprocating engine at constant throttle setting would be higher or lower than the reduction of drag . But the question says power setting .
<URL> There 's a bang , smoke starts coming from the exhaust . Master caution comes on and his first response is to tap and check the 115v AC gauge ! The pilot takes his hand off the collective ! You hear the engine wind down and the rotor RPM drop . He announces a gearbox failure . So why did the engine wind down ? His passenger even asks if he switched the engine off . If the gearbox had seized , the engine would have been destroyed or , the input shaft would shear and the engine RPM would increase leading to a very rapid overspeed . There is no gearbox failure mode that results in the engine winding down . He had a long think and a bit of a chat after the engine and RRPM wind down . In a Bell 412 , with the speed of that wind down , the blades would have stalled after 2 or 3 seconds if he had n't dropped the collective . He announces that he is going to autorotate . His passenger asks " auto what ? " He says we 're going to crash . The whole point of autorotation is that you do n't crash . With the RPM already low ( let 's forget that he would have stalled by now ) , his first action is to dive and you hear the RRPM increase . In reality , they would go even lower . If he was n't already stalled ( which of course he would have been ) he would now . He was straight and level , with significant airspeed over level open ground . At the first bang and sound of the engine winding down , he would have lowered the collective and flared to preserve RRPM . He would then look for a good place to land , not a shopping centre car park , and fly towards it . Each time he flares , he pitches forward again and the RRPM drop rapidly . Flaring like that in auto would cause a large increase in RRPM , possibly overspeeding and lowering the nose to the level would cause a small drop in RRPM . Diving again would reduce the RRPM . So why would you flare to increase , then dive to decrease ? In short , the sequence is complete nonsense .
ARINC Specification 664 calls for quadrax cable or fiber optic cable . Quadrax is a four conductor matched impedance ( 100 ohm ) cable . Connectors are MIL-DTL-38999 . <URL> <URL> The primary benefit is improved EMI protection and ruggedized connectors . The B787 uses fiber optic . A380 uses the quadrax cable .
end question
start question
Why are we still putting lead in our fuel ?
There is nothing " special " about an aircraft engine that requires lead in the fuel -- Engines do n't much care about the lead in tetraethyl lead , nor do they much care for it ( it gets everywhere , fouling sparkplugs and contaminating the oil ) . What they care about is the octane ( anti-knock ) rating of the fuel . Many " low performance " aircraft engines run just fine on unleaded fuels with a lower octane rating ( among them the Lycoming O-320 and O-360 family that power a good chunk of the GA fleet ) , but high-performance aircraft engines ( e.g. the IO-520 you 'll find in Beech Bonanzas ) require a 100 octane fuel . The approved specification for 100 octane aviation gasoline ( <URL> ) lists tetraethyl lead as the octane booster of choice . It 's also worth noting that some of the octane boosting techniques used in automotive gasoline are not acceptable for aircraft engines ( the most common in the US being the addition of ethanol , which has two undesirable effects : reducing the energy content of the fuel , and damaging aviation fuel system seals and other components ) . So why do we still make 100LL , and why do n't we offer the other unleaded options at every airport ? Aviation gasoline is a minuscule slice of the gasoline market , so it does n't make sense to have 5 tanks with 5 different grades of fuel at every airport : All aircraft engines will run on 100LL , so 100LL ( leaded ) aviation gasoline is still produced because it is a " single fuel " solution to piston aviation 's needs . If leaded avgas were to disappear tomorrow the engines that require it would be left without an approved fuel , which would result in those aircraft being grounded until such time as an alternative fuel could be developed or the engine manufacturers develop a procedure for derating the engines ( operating them at reduced power ) . For obvious reasons neither of these options is attractive , particularly to folks who own higher-power engines which were presumably purchased for the performance ... Changing the avgas specification is quite a bit of work - it requires ensuring that the new fuel is a " drop-in replacement " for 100LL -- one which can be mixed with 100LL in any proportion , and will work correctly in any engine designed for 100LL fuel . <URL> ( a Google search for also produces useful results ) , and hopefully a universal unleaded aviation fuel specification and one or more products will come out of those efforts .
First off , there are some light aircraft powered by diesel like the <URL> and the <URL> . It should be noted both come in a 100LL powered version as well . As it stands now the <URL> but has not yet decided/found one . There are also <URL> . But anyway , more to the point , you cant simply put diesel into a regular engine as the ignition system and compression requirements are different . Thus to convert a plane to diesel you need a different engine all together . With that in mind most certifying bodies dont just let you swap airplane engines to any engine you see fit . The engine would need to be certified for the air frame which is a costly proposition . Thus it is sensible and economical to keep the current engines running . There are some efforts like those made by piper and diamond to slowly make diesel aircraft available . As to why 100LL is used , this stems mostly from history . The vast majority of the general aviation fleet both physically and simply in design , stems from the dawn of the jet age . When the lines for the <URL> there was plenty of 100LL to go around , it was for lack of a better term , the logical choice .
It 's for <URL> ( for <URL> ) . As the generated lift bends the wings upward , the weight of the fuel will counter that . As the plane loses weight in-flight due to burning fuel , so does the need for wing bending relief ( less weight → less lift ) , that 's why the wing tanks are the last to be used . For context , a Boeing 777-200ER can hold 29 tonnes of fuel in each wing , and each wing measures ~ 27 metres and is self-supported . Example : Let 's say in our airliner each wing tank holds 100 units ( 200 total for both tanks ) , and the center tank holds 200 units , and you have a flight that needs 200 units of fuel . Correct scenario : By filling only the wing tanks , the weight of fuel in the wings will counter the bending of the lift . Incorrect scenario : By filling only the center tank , the wings will bend a great deal ( maybe even beyond their design limit ) . This is not good , and even if it is within the design limits , the repeating [ avoidable ] stresses will shorten the <URL> . Example for order of use ( schedule ) : Our flight needs 300 units , based on the above , we will fill the wing tanks , and fill half the center tank . Correct order : By emptying the center first , we have extended the duration of the wing bending relief . Incorrect order : By emptying the wings first , we lose the wing bending relief , while the plane is still heavy . Related : <URL>
Here is a dimensionful equation : $ $ L = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 \ cdot \ frac { 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot b ^ 2 } { 1 + \ sqrt { 1 + \ left ( \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 2 \ cdot S } \ right ) ^ 2 } } \ cdot \ alpha $ $ Note that all ingredients are physical , measurable values . Now here is the same thing again , now in dimensionless form : $ $ c_L = \ frac { 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot AR } { 1 + \ sqrt { 1 + \ frac { AR ^ 2 } { 4 } } } \ cdot \ alpha $ $ The dimensionless version is independent of speed $ v $ and air density $ \ rho $ and also needs only the aspect ratio $ AR$ and the angle of attack $ \ alpha $ to give a result , while the dimensionful version needs wingspan $ b $ , wing area $ S$ and angle of attack . However , while the dimensionful version yields an actual force , the dimensionless version yields a coefficient which needs to be multiplied with speed , density and wing area again in order to result in a force . By working in the dimensionless domain , engineers can work on a generalized form of the problem . This was especially helpful in the time before computers : The complex calculation to arrive at a coefficient was needed only once , and computing the dimensionful value from there was trivial . Also , when comparing between different airplanes , with dimensionless coefficients the numbers will be very similar , which allows much better to error-check results or to make first assumptions on a new design . However , there are two drawbacks : You need to know the reference values ! It is easy to screw up , e.g. when combining values from the wing and the tail which are referenced to their individual area . While lift can be added right away , the lift coefficients must first be converted to a common reference value . Sometimes thinking in coefficients can be misleading : Just consider induced drag . If written in dimensionless coefficients like this $ $ c _ { Di } = \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ you can be excused for thinking that <URL> . <URL> ! Now the same again with dimensions : $ $ D_i = \ frac { L ^ 2 } { \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot b ^ 2 } $ $ This shows that induced drag at the same speed is <URL> , the amount of lift created per unit of wing span .
The first figure , 1 litre per mile , is very wrong . The second , 39 to start , is most probably the fuel required for a warm up from a cold start . The Abrams tank weighs <URL> tonnes , so you wo n't get 1 mile on a litre . Its fuel consumption is quoted as <URL> , or 1.66 gallons per mile , which is 6.3 litres per mile . Quite a difference . The engine is the Honeywell ( previously Lycoming ) <URL> . It has a two spool gas generator , with a two stage power turbine . It features a heat exchanger through which the HPC exit air flows , to preheat it from the exhaust gas , prior to combustion , to improve engine efficiency . The engine has a <URL> that keeps it running at <URL> so that it can rapidly accelerate from a stationary position if needed to avoid or engage a hostile force . In tactical idle it consumes 30 + gallons per hour , instead of 10 at the non tactical idle setting . It 's <URL> that " in 1990 , Project on Government Oversight in a report criticized the M1 's high costs and low fuel efficiency in comparison with other tanks of similar power and effectiveness such as the Leopard 2 . The report was based on data from U.S. Army sources and the Congressional record . " Some critics say the tank fuel consumption is so poor , that in combat , it has to often wait for the fuel supply logistics to catch up . Other reports <URL> ( See paragraph at the very top of the page ) . The M1 Abrams was <URL> after a competition in June 1973 , between the Chrysler Corporation and the Detroit Diesel Allison Division of the General Motors Corporation to build prototypes of a new tank designated M1 , and later named the Abrams tank . In November 1976 , it was announced Chrysler won the competition . The M1 was faster and more maneuverable than its predecessors in the M60 series , while offering a lower , smaller silhouette . Besides the substantial gains in performance , the Textron Lycoming AGT-1500 turbine engine was far more reliable than the diesel tank engines then in use with the Army . There was still another benefit . The engine change , despite a penalty in fuel consumption , also resulted in much quieter operation , so much so that soldiers encountering the tank in early maneuvers started calling it " Whispering Death " . The Abrams <URL> also states a figure of 6.3 liters per mile , and also states the value of 38 liters to start . As suggested by user3528438 ( thank you ) , the 39 litres ( 10 US gallons ) is quite probably the fuel required to complete a warm up from a cold start . At the tactical idle setting , this would be the fuel consumed in about 15 to 20 minutes .
Jet engines are only efficient at high altitudes and high speed ( 25,000 + feet or so and 300 + knots or so true airspeed ) . The cost of making and operating an airplane capable of flying there is very high , and most general aviation flights have no need of such performance ( or expense ) hence , propeller airplanes . Reciprocating engine propeller airplanes are relatively efficient at low altitudes and airspeeds , they are more economical for the average types of general aviation flights . They are also much cheaper to build and operate than a turbine powered airplane . Turboprops fill the efficiency gap between reciprocating and pure jet engines , being most efficient at mid altitudes and airspeeds . Still more expense and performance than most general aviation flights need though .
On multiple <URL> threads they incorrectly say : The APU bleed is much cooler than the engine bleed system , and would be ineffective for WAI . But <URL> : The APU bleed temperature is unregulated and thus could damage the wing slats if used for anti-ice . <URL> Highlight shows regulation of engine bleed temperature .
Ramp refers to the area in airport where the aircraft are parked . This term comes from the days of seaplanes . From <URL> : The term ' Ramp ' traces its roots back to the days of seaplanes when there literally was a ramp from the water to the terminal parking area . In case of seaplanes , the area is actually an inclined plane between the shore and water . This is similar to the term boat ramp . Note that this is used mainly in US . The ICAO ( and FAA ) terminology for the area is Apron .
<URL> The probable cause of this accident were the sudden change of weather condition and the flight crew 's failure to properly execute the published instrument approach , including the published missed approach procedure , which resulted in the aircraft impacting the terrain . <URL> According to released information this cargo aircraft overran the runway after the crew aborted the take-off above Vr after experiencing pitch control problems . The final report of this accident is not yet published but a preliminary report is available . The investigation focusses on the payload distribution which may have caused imbalance leading to the perceived control problems . <URL> The aircraft crashed on final approach in low visibility conditions ( 800 meters ) . During the initial approach the crew had requested and ILS approach ( precision approach ) to runway 02 but then changed their minds and asked for a VOR approach ( non-precision approach ) to runway 20 . During the approach , after deactivation of the autopilot , the aircraft deviated 340 meters to the left and the crew subsequently announced they were going around . Shortly afterwards the aircraft hit tree tops and impacted residential buildings . The final report is expected in October 2015 . To me it seems the probable cause is the failure of the flight crew to properly execute the published instrument approach including the published missed approach procedure which resulted in the aircraft impacting the trees and buildings . <URL> The investigation into this accident is still running , only some preliminary information has been published . Preliminary data indicates that about 36 seconds after takeoff the engine no. 2 auto-feathered , about 46 seconds subsequent to auto-feather the engine no. 1 was shut off by the crew , resulting in loss of all thrust . The aircraft subsequently descended , stalled and crashed into a river . ATR-42 , 16 August 2015 , Trigana Air Service Flight 257 This accident occurred just a couple of days ago so there are few facts known yet and no preliminary findings are published . I will not speculate about the probable cause of this accident . The common thread in the first four accidents seems to be the failure to comply with established procedures resulting in the loss of the aircraft . In two cases ( Lao Airlines Flight 301 and TransAsia Airways Flight 222 ) the flight crew flew a controllable aircraft into the ground . In the case of the Air Niugini crash improper loading of the aircraft is likely to be the cause , resulting in the aircraft being not trimmed correctly for take-off . The crash of TransAsia Airways Flight 235 is the only crash that involved an aircraft system malfunction ( engine 2 failure ) . However , the ATR-72 can fly on a single engine so the failure itself should not have been fatal . The crew then shut down the other engine ( number 1 ) which sealed the aircraft 's fate . It is too early to conclude that the crew did n't follow the correct procedures here ; for example there may have been ambiguous indications from the engine instruments that led them to believe that engine no. 1 had failed . However with the information currently available it seems that the crew did not follow the correct procedures for shutting down a failed engine . The high number of crashes involving an ATR aircraft seems not to be related to the model itself , but to the safety culture and lack of training within a number of airlines operating the aircraft .
Proper trim control technique involves exerting control pressure to attain the desired attitude then using the trim to alleviate the requirement of holding that pressure . There can be a temptation for pilots to make small adjustments using trim alone . Resist the temptation and use the proper procedure . We use the proper technique because it 's the most precise way to use trim . If adjustments are made with the trim directly we 'll end up over-controlling and chasing the correct trim position . Trim is n't just a convenience . Especially for pilots flying in instrument conditions , alleviating the load of holding control pressure and ensuring that if the pilot lets go of the controls the airplane maintains its attitude are a matter of safety . The <URL> explains Trim Control starting on 3-6 . It lists the proper technique in greater detail and provides a complete rationale . There 's also the matter of doing things the same way every time . Once we 've established the right procedure , we should always use it to enforce the habit . This also benefits the pilot when things get busy . Proficient instrument pilots are experts in using trim effectively . Predefined trim positions are impractical because they vary based on weight , CG , airspeed and other factors . These factors change the amount of downforce required on the elevator and therefore the trim position . Situations like " level at 8000 " or " gliding descent " wo n't always result in the same trim position . For other control surfaces there are similar factors . We do have predefined trim positions for takeoff , but loading often makes those undesirable and trimming is required immediately . During flight training , good trimming technique becomes especially important during instrument training . There 's a lot of good information about trim and its importance in the <URL> .
Positioning cargo such that the center of gravity of the plane is within a certain range is essential , but is there any advantage to having the center of gravity closer to some ideal point within the acceptable envelope ? There is no one ideal point for all large cargo aircraft as defined by a c.g. expressed as the percent of the mean aerodynamic chord ( % mac from here on ) . There are a lot of aircraft model and operational variations . The general idea for large aircraft like the 747 is to put the c.g. as far aft as possible while keeping undesirable operational characteristics within reason . The farther aft the c.g. is the lower the fuel burn because as you move the c.g. aft ( toward the center of lift of the wing ) , the pitch down moment of the wing lift decreases and thus the tailplane has to supply less downward force , which means there will be less overall drag and fuel efficiency goes up ( the aerodynamicists here can probably say that more succinctly ) . The operating envelopes of the airplane define how far aft you are allowed to put the c.g. . There are multiple constraints insofar as determining the aft most limit . Two obvious ones are controllability in engine-out situations and in turbulence . One does n't always try to put the c.g. just forward of the aft limit , though . There can be other considerations . For example , on 747-100/200 / 400 aircraft at typical weights , the aft c.g. limit is 33.0 % mac , but a common aiming point for the zero fuel weight c.g. is 26.6 % mac . While I do n't know all the reasons for using 26.6 % , one is that that is the location of the wing gear , so if for some reason you could n't extend the body gear , the aircraft might sit on its tail when landing depending on how much fuel you had left and how far aft of 26.6 % you are . Loadmasters for a given aircraft are a good source for what the usual aiming point is for the c.g. Would additional control surface drag be caused by cargo loaded right on the edge of operating standards ? Yes , if you had the c.g. up against the forward limit , the tailplane would have to generate a greater downward force than otherwise , and that would mean more drag . Also , on wide-body aircraft , if you were up against the maximum lateral imbalance moment , you 're going to have aileron drag that you otherwise would not have . Would finding an optimal loading be computationally complex ? Not really , especially if its the case that all pallets/containers are going to be off-loaded at a single destination . If there 's more than one off-loading destination it gets more complicated since you 'd want those pallets getting off first to be positioned such that you could move them to the cargo door without having to move pallets not getting off . There might be other constraints as well . For example , let 's say you had a 30,000 lb pallet to be put aboard a 747-100/200 / 400 . The only area that can take that kind of weight in a single size M pallet is over the wing box . That limits you to using one side of three side-by-side position pairs . Let 's say you put that pallet on the left side of the aft most side-by-side position pair . That 's fine , but you have now limited the right side to a max of 6250 lb . You also have to ensure that you do n't violate cumulative loading limits from the front of the aircraft to the middle and from the aft to the middle , and a few other things besides . Computer programs for doing weight &amp; balance for large cargo aircraft have been able to handle all of these things since the 1980s . I wrote a DOS application in 1988 that did all these things and was eventually used by three cargo carriers . It was finally phased out in 2016 . The algorithm it used was straight forward . Sort the pallets by weight and allocate from heaviest to lightest . Put the heaviest in the position closest to the target c.g. . Then put the next pallet either aft or forward of the previous depending on which will produce a c.g. closest to the target , and so forth . After each position allocation , it checked to see if any limitation had been violated . If so , it reallocated until there were no violations . Even on slow computers of the DOS era , it never took more than a few seconds to complete . How many cargo pallets/containers fit in a large cargo aircraft ? Depends on the size of the containers and the size of the aircraft . There are a lot of choices . Go to this <URL> to see common sizes . For 747s carrying civilian cargo , size code M is probably the most used on the main deck , with either 29 or 30 positions . For military cargo size code B was that size I mostly saw on the 747 main deck , usually with 33 aboard . The lower holds on 747s had a lot of variability insofar as the ULDs used down there . If you want to explore 747 cargo position configurations , go to this <URL> . The POSITION CONFIG menu will allow you to select different configurations between 30 , 29 , and 33 main deck positions . After selecting a configuration , you can scroll down to see the arrangement ( or pres
For the first half century of manned flight , landing gears overwhelmingly had only a single , large wheel per leg . This was the cheapest and simplest way to ensure ground mobility , but ran into trouble when aircraft grew in size . When the XB-36 prototype started testing in 1946 , <URL> were able to tolerate the 156 psi pressure of its single main wheels . For operating from unprepared surfaces , tracked gears were the straightforward transfer from tank experience to landing gear design . <URL> Tracked main gear on the XB-36 prototype ( picture <URL> ) However , another route which was tried at about the same time was to increase the number of wheels the aircraft rests upon . With hindsight , the multi-wheel way was the better solution and has prevailed . When used with large , <URL> it does <URL> than a tracked gear . Some early and rather extreme examples for the multi-wheel route include the <URL> four-engine tactical transport aircraft . Only 20 were produced , however . <URL> Arado 232 from up close . No prize for guessing why it had the nickname " Tausendfüssler " ( millipede ) ( picture <URL> ) . When it comes to designing large aircraft for soft field operations , the Ukrainian design bureau Antonov has unsurpassed experience . This comes to bear in the landing gear of the <URL> , shown below ( <URL> ) . When you have 24 wheels to spread the load out , even 400 tons might not be too heavy , especially when the tire pressure can be adjusted from the cockpit . <URL> An-124 in a botched landing . No worry , the gear will tolerate this kind of abuse , too . Therefore , the research on tracked gears has come to an end shortly after it begun , and even the B-36 ended its days on a four-wheel bogie . Today , every large airplane has at least two wheels per leg for redundancy and <URL> .
Airspeed is critical for pilots , because it is what the airplane " feels " when it 's flying . Too little airspeed and the wings wo n't generate enough lift to fly , too much and the plane can be damaged . ( And you 're right , the pitot tube , along with the " static port " is what allows airspeed to be measured . ) Groundspeed is how quickly you 're getting where you 're going . This is also important , because the engine ( or engines ) consumes an certain amount of fuel per hour . If you are flying between two airports that are 400 miles apart in a plane that goes 100MPH , with no wind your trip will take 4 hours . If you have a 20MPH headwind your airspeed will still be 100MPH but your groundspeed will be reduced to 80MPH , and your trip will take 5 hours instead of 4 . If you 've only got 4.5 hours worth of fuel , you 're going to need to make a stop . It 's really good to know this before you leave ! So airspeed is how fast the plane is flying through the air and groundspeed is , as you observed , how fast you 're getting where you 're going . Both are important !
That same thinking , " dogfighting is dead " , got the USAF and USN in serious trouble in Vietnam . The U.S. Armed Forces were convinced that the next major war would be against the Soviet Union directly , in theaters including Europe , Alaska and Canada , and as a result , fighter designs succeeding the very successful Sabre and Super Sabre day fighters used in Korea began emphasizing standoff capabilities , believing the aerial threat would come from various classes of nuclear bomber , calling for fast , long-range missile-armed interceptors as a counter . That war , thankfully , never materialized . Instead , the U.S. was pulled into more or less another Korea , a proxy war fought between Soviet-supplied and trained Communist forces against a U.S.-backed fledgling democracy . The big , heavy U.S. F-4 Phantom interceptor and F-105 Thunderchief light bomber , neither of which had internal guns , found themselves facing the older like-minded successor to the MiG-15s they faced in Korea , the MiG-17 , coupled with the MiG-21 close-range interceptor . Instead of the long-range standoff air war the USAF was built for , US pilots were ambushed at close range by guns and infrared missiles , resulting in a piss-poor 2:1 kill/death ratio in aerial engagements , compared to the 14:1 ratio they enjoyed in Korea . The result was increased attention paid to " air combat maneuvering " , and an emphasis on this style of combat in the next generation of fighters adopted by the U.S. military . The F-14 and F-15 , though intended to bring back dogfighting ( and they did ) , turned out to be big , fast interceptor-style fighters like their predecessors , that still only had a clear advantage in BVR engagements . So a group of USAF generals , seeing what its allies had been doing with the F-5 Tiger that the Joint Chiefs had more or less passed on ( a few trainers , a few aggressor planes , but no combat adoption ) , commissioned the LWF competition , which would produce the F-16 and F-18 lightweight multirole fighters with an emphasis on the close-quarters maneuverability that the Communist powers never really forgot . The F-22 splits the difference between the F-15 and F-16 's air combat strategies , producing a heavier but highly maneuverable fighter that excels at air combat at any range ( but is so expensive that so far the USAF have only deployed them in situations where they would never face any real threat ) . The F-35 , however , is rapidly becoming a disappointment ; compared even to the F-16 or F-15E it will replace , it " ca n't climb , ca n't turn , and ca n't run " , and the A variant is the only one with an internal cannon ( which carries only 182 rounds of ammunition compared to the F-22s 480 , the F-15 's 650 and the F-16 's 510 ) ; the STOVL B variant and the Navy 's C variant wo n't have guns at all . In today 's military theater , the U.S. enjoys " air supremacy " ; we 're fighting largely paramilitary forces with practically zero air to air capability . Tomorrow 's theater , however , may be quite different . Diplomatic relationships with a number of Russian-supplied nations including Russia itself are souring day by day , and the U.S. could easily find itself drawn into conflicts over Taiwan , the Korean peninsula , India/Pakistan , the Ukraine , etc , where they 'd face militaries fielding Russian jets purpose-built to mix it up at visual range . In short , while the U.S. has n't directly fought a conflict against a serious air threat since Vietnam , there are a lot of potential near-future conflicts in which they would get their chance , facing the Sukhoi PAK-FA or Chengdu J-20 with skilled Chinese or Russian pilots at the stick . Even if these fighters are n't fielded in mass numbers , the U.S. would still face the Russians ' direct answers to U.S 4th and 4.5-generation fighters , including the MiG-29 and Su-27 / 30/33 . Many variants of these were specifically designed to out-maneuver the U.S. F-15 , F-16 and F-18 ( which would likely be the first jets in-theater ) , and which would still be a match for the F-22 in a visual-range " furball " .
I find it hard to make a general answer since the fuel systems could be different between various aircraft , but , according to Jan Roskam 's Aircraft Design series ( I just had to return the book , but I think it 's Part IV in the series ) some model of the F/A -18 utilizes the following system which , in sustained inverted flight ( or any sustained flight condition wherein the aircraft does not experience a positive load factor ) , would eventually starve the engine of fuel . Keep in mind too that fuel is n't the only factor for sustaining this flight condition : oil flow through the engine is typically gravity fed ( reference for that is an engineer from Bell Helicopter who worked on the V-22 powerplant ) . Suction is used to scavenge the oil out of the engine/gearboxes/etc , but the flow of the oil up to a point where suction will pull it out is via gravity ( or whatever acceleration the aircraft is experiencing ) . Hence , not only do we need to provide fuel , but we also need to provide for proper oil flow as well . Anyhow , the F/A -18 fuel system . Again , I wish I had the image from the text to show you , but the basic idea is this : if you had a flop tube capable of scavenging from the entire fuel tank , it would engender more problems than it solved . Hence , inside of the primary fuel tank there 's a second , smaller tank . This tank has a series of poppet valves that allow fuel to flow into the inset tank during coordinated ( i.e. , positive load factor ) flight . When the aircraft is not experiencing a positive load factor , the pressure of the fuel on these valves holds them closed and the fuel stays within the inset tank . A short flop tube within this space provides fuel to the engines for the duration of the maneuver . However , as noted , this inset tank is only a portion of the larger main tank , so its capacity would be some fraction of the main tank , limiting the duration of the maneuver . So , to answer your question ( how does fuel starvation happen and why is n't it solved via a pump ) it 's a design problem that , per the printing of that text , could not be solved by adding capacity to the pump . There just simply was n't fuel present at the fuel sump to be scavenged . The real design problem would lie in the design of flop tubes capable of scavenging from the entire tank without creating more design problems ( an assumed point on my part ) . Examples , I think , would crop up if you decided to make a multiplicity of flop tubes ( larger pumps required , more parts , more complex plumbing , etc. ) , or longer flop tubes ( potential risk for damage to the tube head/tank with increased " flopping " inertia , larger pump required for greater head losses , etc. ) ... but I also do n't know what the current standard is .
If fuel contamination is suspected ( because of engine control system fault indications , slow engine responses or rapid engine pressure ratio ( EPR ) fluctuations ) , there is an associated checklist procedure to followed which can confirm the contamination : Fuel contamination checklist as posted by " 330 skipper " at Nov 24th 2017 13:47 Z <URL> : If ENG 1 ( 2 ) CTL SYS FAULT alert triggered associated with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE , and with rapid and continuous EPR fluctuation indications on both engines : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... OFF If EPR fluctuations stop on both engines : ECAM PROC ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... APPLY A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... KEEP OFF If EPR fluctuations continue on both engines : FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If ENG 1 CTL SYS FAULT and ENG 2 CTL SYS FAULT alerts triggered with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . OFF FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If fuel contamination confirmed : LAND ASAP <URL> In addition , the Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) has the following procedure to be followed if fuel contamination is confirmed : <URL> Special thanks to <URL> for providing the images of the procedure and the FCOM
The answer is no , but some shifting of the center of gravity ( c.g. ) due to attitude is unavoidable . Tanks are subdivided so the c.g. shift within a single tank is small . You can notice the sloshing after a landing when the aircraft has come to a complete stop after taxiing : It will gently rock back and forth due to the sloshing in the tanks . Some fighter aircraft use a sponge-like mesh in their tanks which is very effective in breaking up sloshing . It takes up approx . 2 % of internal volume . However , in a nose-up attitude the fuel will still collect at the back of the tanks , and again only distributing fuel over several tanks will prevent a significant c.g. shift . Subdividing also helps in spanwise direction to prevent high loads on wing ribs when the aircraft rolls . Remember , an F-16 has a top roll rate of 720 ° / s , which creates a significant inertial pressure on the wing 's tank walls .
The Boeing 737 fuselage ( among other components ) in Wichita for a variety of reasons Before Boeing sold the Wichita portion of the Boeing Commercial Airplanes business to the Onex Corporation in 2005 , Boeing was manufacturing structures for their aircraft in Wichita . The engineering , manufacturing , supply chain , and storage resources already existed in Wichita , so it would n't make sense to try to move all of that back in house at another location . The cost to transport large components from Wichita to Renton or Everett via train is likely more economical than to manufacture and store them at the final assembly plant On a similar vein , Boeing also uses the modified 747 <URL> to transport components between suppliers and Boeing . Wichita is one of the cities that the Dreamlifter flies into , landing at McConnell Air Force Base .
Engine placement was a tricky question when jets were introduced , and much has been learned since then . The initial idea was to mount them inside the fuselage or wing root . When they grew too big , they were closely mounted to the wing ( " underslung " position , like in the <URL> , the <URL> or the early <URL> ) . However , the underslung position has two disadvantages : More of the leading and trailing edges is obstructed , blocking space that would otherwise be used for slats and flaps . Consequently , an underslung position reduces maximum lift . The center of gravity of the engine is too far back . Moving it more forward helps to place the center of gravity of the wing ahead of its elastic line . Bending will now create an opposing inertial moment , which is very helpful to dampen flutter . Starting to move the engine downwards away from the wing initially increases drag , because now a narrow slot opens between both with a tendency to separated flow . Only when the engine is moved downwards enough , the drag of the wing-engine arrangement reaches its minimum . This placement was chosen in the next generation of jets like the <URL> or the <URL> . Moving it still further down makes the pylon longer and thus increases the total drag again . The big diameters of modern high-bypass ratio engines make it impractical to move it down enough to reach the drag minimum , but by moving it forward , the engine can again be lifted up , so a shorter landing gear becomes possible . Vortex generators are added if that pesky separation between engine and nacelle can not be avoided .
There is nothing " special " about an aircraft engine that requires lead in the fuel -- Engines do n't much care about the lead in tetraethyl lead , nor do they much care for it ( it gets everywhere , fouling sparkplugs and contaminating the oil ) . What they care about is the octane ( anti-knock ) rating of the fuel . Many " low performance " aircraft engines run just fine on unleaded fuels with a lower octane rating ( among them the Lycoming O-320 and O-360 family that power a good chunk of the GA fleet ) , but high-performance aircraft engines ( e.g. the IO-520 you 'll find in Beech Bonanzas ) require a 100 octane fuel . The approved specification for 100 octane aviation gasoline ( <URL> ) lists tetraethyl lead as the octane booster of choice . It 's also worth noting that some of the octane boosting techniques used in automotive gasoline are not acceptable for aircraft engines ( the most common in the US being the addition of ethanol , which has two undesirable effects : reducing the energy content of the fuel , and damaging aviation fuel system seals and other components ) . So why do we still make 100LL , and why do n't we offer the other unleaded options at every airport ? Aviation gasoline is a minuscule slice of the gasoline market , so it does n't make sense to have 5 tanks with 5 different grades of fuel at every airport : All aircraft engines will run on 100LL , so 100LL ( leaded ) aviation gasoline is still produced because it is a " single fuel " solution to piston aviation 's needs . If leaded avgas were to disappear tomorrow the engines that require it would be left without an approved fuel , which would result in those aircraft being grounded until such time as an alternative fuel could be developed or the engine manufacturers develop a procedure for derating the engines ( operating them at reduced power ) . For obvious reasons neither of these options is attractive , particularly to folks who own higher-power engines which were presumably purchased for the performance ... Changing the avgas specification is quite a bit of work - it requires ensuring that the new fuel is a " drop-in replacement " for 100LL -- one which can be mixed with 100LL in any proportion , and will work correctly in any engine designed for 100LL fuel . <URL> ( a Google search for also produces useful results ) , and hopefully a universal unleaded aviation fuel specification and one or more products will come out of those efforts .
end question
start question
Can you land IFR at sea ?
OK . There are some answers with some good information here but here is my stab at it . I 'm not going to go into whether this is smart or not , just possible . And yes you can land a seaplane safely in zero-zero conditions , if the conditions are right ( haha ) . Anyone that tells you different is n't using their imagination and/or is n't a seaplane pilot . Once again , not saying it 's smart , just possible . 1 ) " I 've heard that some seaplane bases have IFR approaches , but what about landing at sea ? " If you have an ILS , you need to mount the antenna somewhere and " at sea " is not very conducive to that . This leaves GPS ( RNAV ) approaches that could be theoretically built " at sea " . However , until RNP and LPV ( or however they are renaming these concepts this week ) becomes common place in small aircraft you can only get down to minimums of about 500 ' anyways . If you are dropped off that " high " , you are pretty much legal " at sea " to be down there buzzing around VFR anyways even in US airspace ( assuming you can see , which if you could n't then landing from an IFR approach would n't be prudent anyways , even on a runway ) . So it kind of defeats the point of doing an approach in the first place . 2 ) " If you flew out into international airspace , could you land at sea and then taxi back into US waters without being subject to US regulations ? " Short answer , technically yes , but ... . . You could land outside of ADIZ , which is typically 12 miles out and be subject to no FARs , I guess , technically . However there is almost always a controlling agency for that airspace even if the country possibly care ' as much ' once outside their sovereign airspace . They will start caring a lot if and when you conflict with their traffic . Back to the point , there are many practical problems with landing this far out though and it certainly is n't worth the hassle just to avoid some regulations ( that do n't really limit you ) . First problem , there are very few seaplanes still flying today that can land 12 miles out to sea on anything but the absolute best ( read that as calmest ) day . And , oh yes I forgot to mention , in the US at least they are n't going to wait until you get right up to twelve miles with no transponder code to intercept you ( I 'm assuming you are n't talking to anyone because you do n't want to be subject to US regs ) . So you actually need to land about 35 miles out ( do n't ask me where that number is from , I honestly do n't remember , but 35 miles was the magic number and deadline for having a transponder code to cross the ADIZ ) . Moving on , If you do find that rare day when the water is just beautifully calm and do land , you run into problem number 2 . Second problem , now you have to taxi 35 miles to shore . Talk to any seaplane pilot you can find , and they will be happy to tell you how painful this would be . Even if it were just twelve miles this would be a great reason to just talk to someone and go the flying route . This leads us to problem 3 , which is even if you are n't subject to aviation regulations you are now a boat . So you must clear immigration and customs as a boat . The coast guard whom you may run into will not be a problem . In my experience they are generally great people and very practical because they have important jobs to do . They 'll call a hammer a hammer , and will be happy to treat you like a boat . Your problem will be with customs and border patrol . They will be so confused by this beast you have brought them , that they MAY not want to clear you just for fear of getting reprimanded . Be ready for lengthy explanations and calls to supervisors leading to most likely hours of waiting . Not saying CBP does n't do an excellent job , but you just brought some poor junior officer a seaplane which is the equivalent to taking a puffer fish to a butcher in Alabama and telling him , " Do n't worry , I 'm pretty sure my wife wo n't sue you if you kill me by cutting that thing wrong . " From personal experience , if you try to set something like this up in advance with CBP you have about a five percent chance of it actually slightly helping somewhat , but not really . Problem is when you call to set something up you are talking with supervisors and they are definitely not the ones who are going to meet you , and they probably ca n't tell you who will meet you . ... . All that being said , I do n't see any reason to avoid US airspace . Im not sure what regs you think you 'd be avoiding but there are n't really that many to worry about in this situation ( I realize this is probably why you asked in the first place ) . There are no regulations against landing in salt water anywhere in the US . The coast guard owns the salt water essentially and they are great to work with . Also controllers are n't going to care if you land without an airport anywhere , no regs against it ( think helicopters , grass strips , good bush flying ) . That being said , there is a big difference between being legal and not pissing people off . Land in the intercoastal in a lot of places and you 'll probab
It 's a bad idea to give false information to a controller as a matter of practice . Instead of calling yourself a student when you 're not , it would be better to say you 're unfamiliar with the area or that your English is not perfect . Controllers are almost always accommodating to less-than-proficient pilots and will usually make allowances whenever time and traffic permits . If your English is not good , be sure and use simple , direct phraseology . Read the AIM to become familiar with the common phrases used with ATC . Even something as simple as hearing " radar identified " in Canada instead of the usual U.S. phrase " radar contact " has caused many a native English speaker to reply " say again ? "
FAR 91.3 states that any pilot in command may deviate from any regulation or rules to the extent needed to deal with the emergency . That includes entering restricted or prohibited airspace . In the example that you suggested , yes you could do so and land at the Groom Lake flight test facility at KXTA , provided you could reach their controllers or contact Nellis Approach Control declaring an emergency . I will say that if you do enter R-4808 N and land there , do n't expect them to roll out the welcome mat . You will be immediately met by USAF Military Police who will arrest you , most likely at gunpoint , and spend several hours , if not days , there or outside the compound being extensively questioned by Air Force Security personnel , the FBI and Homeland Security . Your aircraft will be impounded and inspected , possible indefinitely , and search warrants issued for your property . If they find out that you faked an emergency to enter that compound , you are in very serious trouble and face a variety of federal charges including trespass upon a classified installation and whatever else the DoJ can throw at you . In addition , you would need a very , very good reason to even be anywhere near Area 51 , as it is in the middle of a military reservation geographically the size of the nation of Switzerland in the middle of south central Nevada . There are no published routes over the airspace and all commercial and civilian traffic is kept far , far away . Details about the airfield are not published on government aeronautical charts or regional A/FDs . See the VFR sectionals and enroute charts below . <URL> <URL> While Area 51 is a pretty extreme example , people have had emergencies and landed in military or other restricted facilities . The usual response from the authorities is to detain and question you to determine what happened and inspect the aircraft to verify your story . If it 's a legitimate emergency , no harm is done and they will release you and the aircraft ; the NTSB will file and incident report and that 's it .
In the EMB-145 the abnormal procedure for obscured windscreens is to secure items in the cockpit , open the side window and look through its opening . There are more aircraft that share this procedure . Here is the QRH procedure for " Impaired or cracked windshield " in the EMB-145 :
It 's possible to land by touching the tail first , but this is undesirable as it puts a lot of stress on the tail , so it 's not trained for and there are no circumstances where you would do this deliberately . There are two common methods of landing a tail-dragger : a three-point landing ( where the tail and mainwheels touch together ) and a wheel landing ( where the mainwheels touch first ) . Aircraft design First , be aware that the aircraft is not level when it 's on the ground , like a tricycle aircraft is . The tail position is set so that the aircraft is quite nose-up on the ground - in fact , the angle is about the same as the stalling angle , and the reason for this will become apparent . If your nose is on the horizon , the tail is off the ground ( about five feet up in a Tiger Moth ) . Also , the prop is mounted higher up on a tail-dragger than on a tricycle , for exactly the reason you say . In the Tiger Moth , there is two or three feet of clearance between the ground and the prop if the nose is on the horizon . The clearance itself is n't the direct problem . If you do go nose-down on the ground , the airplane is not stable . If you 're moving forwards , the chief component of drag is acting through the mainwheels , so the engine thrust will tend to tip you further nose-forward ( especially if you run over a hump or rabbit hole ) . In addition , the CG of the aircraft is closer to the mainwheels , and eventually goes in front of the mainwheels . If this happens , a prop strike is inevitable . Three-point landings Three-point landings are the default because the aircraft is fully controllable as soon as it touches down . The approach to the runway is done at low or idle power , and set you up to be flying level at rooftop height above the runway . As you lose speed ( because you have idle power ) , you progressively pitch up to maintain height , which in turn causes you to lose more speed . This is called the flare Soon enough you are pitched up at the three-point attitude , and you can no longer maintain height - if you pitch up any further the wings will stall . At this point , you will drop down onto the ground and all three points will touch at once . Wheel landings Wheel landings are also used , as they offer more control in windy conditions , but they typically have a longer landing roll because you have more speed when you touch down . The approach is flown with some power on , but less than cruise power . It 's a gradual descent towards the runway , and there 's no flare , so you touch down in the level attitude . You then close the throttle to idle , and let the speed decay on the ground . As your speed decays and less lift is produced , you need to progressively push the stick forward to keep the tail from dropping , keeping the aircraft level as long as possible . Once the tail starts to drop , pull the stick back to drop the tail firmly onto the ground . When do tail-first landings happen ? To reiterate , you never land tail-first deliberately . It offers very little control ; the aircraft would stall at a higher speed ( and therefore the landing roll is harder and longer ) ; it puts undesirable load on the tail . They do sometimes happen by accident , if a student pilot has pitched up too aggressively when trying to do a three-point landing . Typically , too much nose-up input results in " ballooning " as the aircraft gains a little more height , but this results in the speed decreasing rapidly . If left uncorrected , the aircraft stalls , resulting in the tail touching down hard .
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
Probably the best thing to do is to start looking for your reference as you start to lose the runway under your nose . Hopefully at that point you 'll be low enough to identify something that will stand out from the crowd all the way down to the ground . You may also favor choosing something closer in from the horizon at 2000AGL , to ensure you do n't lose it behind the horizon as you descend . For me , flying out of Addison , it 's pretty easy ; the runway faces downtown Addison about 3 miles south-southeast ( a row of corporate headquarters buildings along the Dallas North Tollway ) which is far enough out to line up on but close enough and tall enough you 'll see it right up until you pass the numbers . Flying into a more rural strip , you might have more trouble identifying a good reference that you can keep in sight as you descend . Some potential issues with this general strategy : Your reference point will lie well beyond the runway by design . Do n't fixate on it ; that will cause you to subconsciously stay higher than your intended glide path as you fly toward your reference , potentially overshooting the runway . Your reference is a single point . That point and your aircraft make a line , which you want to be colinear with the runway . But , your aircraft is a moving point , so it 's not necessarily true that you 'll be in line with the runway even if your nose is on the reference point . Instead of one reference point , I 'd pick two ( even if they 're not perfectly in line ) and focus on keeping both reference points steady relative to each other . If you ca n't see the runway , you may not be able to see surrounding visual aids like the glide slope indicators , which are just as important as staying lined up . Addison 's PAPI lights are off to the right when approaching runway 15 , which is stupid as my instructor can see them perfectly while I 'm blind unless I nose down every few seconds to keep track ( not an option without flaps ) . While I would n't rely on it completely in VMC , if you have a VOR receiver aboard and the runway has an instrument approach , you can tune into the ILS frequency and use the " cross " alongside visual references to manage your approach during the time the runway is hidden from view . The ILS system is pretty well-standardized , while the visual references at each airport are not , so if you become accustomed to an ILS-augmented visual landing , the basic procedure can be applied to any airport . The reasons I would n't rely totally on it include : You 're not instrument-rated ( unless you are ) so flying with your head in the gauges can easily kill you . Glance at it to ensure you 're where you think you are , but rely on your visual references whenever you can . You 're not flying a pure instrument approach under IFR , so you still have to " see and avoid " even if you have tower staff spacing traffic around you ( unless you ask for a " pop-up " instrument approach , effectively switching from VFR to IFR ) . ILS availability/accuracy is not guaranteed in daytime VMC because the ILS critical areas are not required to be protected during these times . If you tell the tower what you 're doing , they can advise ground traffic to use the ILS holds , but there may already be traffic in an ILS critical area and if so there 's little the tower can do . ILS may contradict visual indicators to varying degrees , because the ILS glideslope is projected from a different point along the runway than the PAPI/VASI array . You therefore should n't expect the ILS cross to be perfectly centered along the same path that gives you two white PAPI lights . Radio-based ILS is n't available at every airstrip . In such cases you simply must fly a purely visual approach , and having relied on ILS to give you the proper glide slope instead of developing your sight picture will prove to be a crutch in such situations .
There is one example in the AIM used for transitioning from VFR to IFR , and it how I 've always done it : AIM 5-2-5 . Abbreviated IFR Departure Clearance ( Cleared & hellip ; as Filed ) Procedures EXAMPLE - " Los Angeles center , Apache Six One Papa , VFR estimating Paso Robles VOR at three two , one thousand five hundred , request IFR to Bakersfield . " Reference : <URL> ( 13 MB PDF ) Notice that they specifically say " VFR " right before their current location and also use the word " request " to make it clear what they are looking for . I would change your request to : Tampa Approach , Cirrus 123AB , VFR 5 miles southeast of Tampa Exec at 1000 feet , request IFR to Ft. Lauderdale Exec
In order to fly an SVFR clearance , the pilot and planned flight must meet several criteria . The <URL> as well as <URL> spell out the basic requirements : You must have at least a private pilot certificate to obtain an SVFR clearance during daylight hours as well as an instrument rating to obtain an SVFR clearance at night . Student pilots are not permitted to request an SVFR clearance . You must obtain an SVFR clearance to depart from Class E , D , C and B airspace if visibility is below VFR minimums . SVFR clearance may be prohibited in some Class D , C , and B airspace due to the volume of IFR traffic . Check the airspace NOTAMs for these areas prior to departure . You must have at least 1 statute mile visibility on both the ground and in the air as well as remain clear of clouds ( airplane ) or simply remain clear of clouds and have at least 1 statute mile visibility for operations in Class B , C , and D airspace ( rotorcraft helicopter ) . All an SVFR clearance allows is for a VFR pilot to enter , depart or operate in controlled airspace using day VFR minimums for Class G airspace . If it is done correctly by a competent private pilot and only in these conditions , it can be done safely as it provides the pilot with enough visual references to safely operate in VFR . It is also advisable to do a realistic assessment of one 's own abilities to control an airplane in marginal conditions and set conservative minimums for things like congested airspace or other weather in the area . It is not advisable to do this if weather briefings anticipate IMC after departure . Likewise if you have little experience operating in congested controlled airspace or if you struggle to stay ahead of the airplane under additional stressors , SVFR may not be advisable .
Since there are actual projects for things like this I guess it is possible at least in principle : <URL> From the site : The main feature of the circular runway is that it will become possible to let an aircraft operate always at landing and take-off with headwind . Whatever its strength and direction , the Endless Runway becomes independent of the wind . When allowing limited crosswind , airspace users can shorten the global trajectory of the flights through optimized departure and arrival routes . Apart from that they seem to hope that they can start/land more airplanes per time unit by shifting the start/landing point thus avoiding the problem that airplanes must not follow other airplanes to close along the same trajectory .
The key point is in your last sentence : In the case of class G airspace from the ground , the airspace is uncontrolled . Uncontrolled airspace is , well , uncontrolled . An appropriately rated , current pilot , in an appropriately equipped aircraft , may fly IFR in class G airspace without either a clearance or a flight plan . There are no clearances to waive VFR minima in class G , because the flight is conducted under IFR . If an entire flight is flown in class G airspace , a pilot does not need to talk to a controller at all . When class G airspace is overlaid by controlled airspace , like class E , the pilot will need a clearance before entering controlled airspace . The controller will provide a clearance ( <URL> , p. 4-3-2 ) : WHEN ENTERING CONTROLLED AIRSPACE ( instruction ) , FLY HEADING ( degrees ) UNTIL REACHING ( altitude , point , or fix ) BEFORE PROCEEDING ON COURSE . Once the pilot is released for departure , they would depart IFR in class G , where they would be responsible for their own terrain and traffic clearance ( using tools like an <URL> ) . As soon as they climb into class E airspace , they receive the benefits and responsibilities of flying in the ATC system . An interesting <URL> is raised <URL> . In this case , a pilot departed a class G airport with class E starting at 700 AGL , and broke out of the clouds before entering controlled airspace . The ruling basically said that taking off in this situation without a clearance is not explicitly illegal , but falls under " careless or reckless operation " prohibited by <URL> .
As with any flight , " It 's as safe as you make it " . The vast majority of the General Aviation fleet ( piston singles ) do n't even have an autopilot , and the ones that do may only be single-axis units ( wing levelers ) , so the pilot has to have some level of attention on flying the airplane . If we assume these are the folks flying around VFR we can also generally assume they should be looking out the window the vast majority of the time ( like Skip said , <URL> ) Adding to that , " See and avoid " is every pilot 's responsibility in VMC - whether operating under Visual Flight Rules or Instrument Flight Rules - if you can see , you are expected to avoid ( and if necessary deal with ATC freaking out about you deviating from a clearance later ) . A number of other steps have been taken to enhance safety in Class D and E airspace : In the US <URL> prescribes specific VFR cruising altitudes , and <URL> is the IFR equivalent . The cruising altitudes in these regulations result in an automatic 500-foot vertical separation of VFR and IFR traffic ( at least between 3,000 feet MSL and 18,000 feet MSL - which is where VFR and IFR traffic are likely to be mixing in cruise . ) . Additionally IFR traffic is usually receiving radar separation services ( there are some non-radar areas in the US , but not many ) . Nominally this separation is " IFR-to-IFR " in Class E airspace , but if a controller sees a VFR target squawking 1200 and behaving unpredictably they can vector IFR traffic around it . Similarly if a controller sees a " primary target only " ( something without a transponder , and not reporting altitude information ) they will often vector IFR traffic around it until they can establish what it is and what it 's doing . Within class D airspace the level of service you 'll get depends somewhat on the equipment the controllers have . A " purely visual " tower with no radar can only give traffic advisories for aircraft they can see by looking out their window , but if they see an conflict they 're going to say something . A tower with radar ( either local or slaved from a nearby airport ) may give give VFR-to-VFR or VFR-to-IFR separation advisories based on that data as well , sometimes including advisories to aircraft inbound who are outside their airspace .
According to the <URL> ( 2 ) Private aircraft . The pilots of private aircraft are required to secure permission to land from CBP following transmission of the advance notice of arrival via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP , pursuant to § 122.22 . Prior to departure as defined in § 122.22 ( a ) , from a foreign port or place , the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from CBP that landing rights have been granted for that aircraft at a particular airport . This only matters if you are inbound from an out of country origin . An LRA airport is Landing rights airport . A landing rights airport is any airport , other than an international airport or user fee airport , at which flights from a foreign area are given permission by Customs to land .
First off , very rarely will you shoot at an unidentified aircraft . Most engagements require a visual ID , or a hostile action , prior to engagement . However , you will also program your aircraft with specific ROE logic that will indicate that certain aircraft are friendly , as identified by IFF transponders , Link 16 , etc. . You can still lock up friendly aircraft , and we frequently do to facilitate rendezvous with friendly aircraft and to clear ourselves from traffic , but if your master switch goes to ARM and you have a friendly locked up , there 's a good chance you wo n't be flying again for awhile , if ever . When we lock up an aircraft , 99 % of the time , it does not indicate an intention to shoot . By using our radar and " locking up " a target we get target aircraft altitude , speed , range , target aspect , heading , $ Vc $ , etc , all useful things that come in handy for routine events .
No , you can not . <URL> : ( c ) Instrument experience . Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , a person may act as pilot in command under IFR or weather conditions less than the minimums prescribed for VFR only if : [ instrument currency requirements ] To accept an IFR clearance as PIC , even in VMC , you must be instrument current .
When landing at a controlled aerodrome , air traffic control will automatically close the flightplan once the flight has safely arrived . The pilot does not have to do anything in this case . The majority of commercial flights take place at controlled aerodromes , which is probably what makes you think that pilots never close their flightplans . If landing at an uncontrolled field ( that is , one without a control tower ) , however , the pilot will either close the flightplan by contacting a nearby ATC station on the radio before landing , or via telephone after landing .
A pure seaplane can not land on a normal ( land ) airfield : The hull or floats would be badly damaged . An amphibious aircraft can land on both water or a normal airfield ( pavement , grass , gravel , etc. ) , because it has both wheels and floats , but with amphibious aircraft you 're either operating as a seaplane ( on water ) or a landplane ( on solid ground ) , and you would follow procedures appropriate to the type of operation you 're conducting . As I understand it amphibious aircraft would not be suited to landing in a " marsh " or " swamp " : The water and mud would render the wheels ineffective ( and possibly dangerous : If the wheels dig in to the mud the aircraft could flip over ) , and the dirt/land portions of the area would damage or destroy the floats/hull . It may be possible to put the aircraft down in such an area , but it would be very unsafe , bordering on <URL> , to do so in a non-emergency situation .
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
Nope . Your solo time must be done <URL> ( the FAA does n't come out and say it in those words , but that 's what the " aeronautical experience " requirements basically boil down to ) . You must also pass a <URL> and receive instruction in the particular make and model of aircraft you will be solo-ing in ( the second of which is impossible in an ultralight : You can not receive dual instruction in that aircraft as by regulation it can only have one seat ) . As you do n't need a pilot certificate to fly an ultralight you could just get one , get some basic instruction on flying it ( from someone who has flown them before ) , and go fly . <URL> thanks to modern materials and construction techniques . Your private pilot training &amp; solo experience would be helpful in flying certain types of ultralight aircraft , but it 's not required as long as you abide by the regulations applicable to ultralights . Similarly experience in the more " airplane-like " ultralights may help you out in the rest of your private pilot training , but that experience is n't required ( and not really " loggable " toward your training , through you can put it in your logbook if you wish -- just log the time as " Ultralight Flying " or something similar . )
Can you ? Absolutely , and air traffic control will treat you ( almost ) like any other airplane . You are supposedly handled on a first-come-first-serve basis ( reality is slightly different with different aircraft speeds , etc. ) . Do the airlines like it if you slow them down ? No , but it 's part of the system and the way that it works . Very often , there are multiple runways at bigger airports , and sometimes there are even shorter runways that are dedicated for airplanes that do n't need to land on the same one as the " big boys " . Even if not , they will work you in . Now , that being said , very often there is a better option . As you said , there are usually high fees at the big airports , so landing at a smaller satellite airport can often save you money and save you time because you wo n't have to taxi as far or sit and wait in line to get out . An extra 15 minutes by car can be better than an extra 30 minutes while taxiing . As far as being prepared , it is n't really much different than smaller airports other than the fact that ATC is much busier . They do n't have the time/tolerance to keep repeating instructions to you , and expect you to be " on your game " . When they rattle off taxi instructions like " Cessna N1234 , taxi to the ramp via Alpha , Tango , Echo , and Xray . Hold short of runway 23 . " they expect a quick readback and for you to follow instructions exactly because they need to move on to the next guy . It will also help everyone out if you do n't fly your final approach the way that most people are taught for an entire 10 mile final : very close to your actual landing speed . In fact , you are usually landing on a runway that is 4X + the distance that you need and you can slow down fairly quickly ( especially compared to a jet ) , so if you can fly an extra 20 ( or 80 ) knots as long as possible , it will be greatly appreciated and keep traffic moving . Make sure that you leave yourself enough time to slow down at the end and above all else , be safe .
end question
start question
How many four-engine commercial passenger jetliner types are currently in use ?
Well , the 3 points you make are easily demonstrable to be true , and also a fairly unique feature of all three if looked at side-by-side . The 747 is the only one with an obvious hump towards the front of the aircraft . This upper row of windows is unlike either of the other two Photo Aldo Bidini : : source : <URL> The A380 has an entire upper row of windows - it does indeed have 2 full decks . Richard Vandervord source : <URL> If it has 4 engines , but neither a half upper deck and hump or a full upper deck ( and it 's an airbus ! ) then yes it is an A340 Aero Icarus source : <URL> However , that is not all the 4 engine passenger aircraft . The BAe 146 is a 4 engine regional airliner , and you could add to your distinguishing features " has a T-tail , must be a 146 " Adrian Pingstone source : <URL> And then we 're into the Ilyushins . The Il-96 , is easily distinguishable from the similar ( ish ) A340 as it is considerably smaller - hard to tell from a close-in photo , but in real life if one were parked next to the other the IL-96 is smaller . Anna Zvereva source : <URL> The Il-86 has 4 engines but does not fit your criteria , as it only remains in service with the Russian Military , but the Il-62 is still in commercial service . It 's very easy to distinguish by having its 4 engines mounted on the tail Tim Rees source : <URL>
There are 2 fuel pumps on the Diamond DA20 . One is electric and is controlled by the pilot and one is mechanically driven by the engine and is constantly running while the engine is running . After take off , you switch the electric one off and the mechanical one keeps supplying the engine with fuel . <URL>
Actually , it does n't matter whether you are a Private pilot or an ATP , the requirements for a type rating are in the <URL> , which apply regardless of the aircraft type . In the PTS , it says : Practical Test Book Description This practical test book contains the Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards -- Airplane . The Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards -- Airplane includes Areas of Operation and Tasks for the initial issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate and for the addition of category , class , and aircraft type ratings to an airline transport pilot certificate . These Areas of Operation and Tasks also apply for the issuance of an airplane type rating to a private or commercial pilot certificate . You basically cover everything needed for the ATP . The differences between the different airplanes come out during the practical test just like they do for any other checkride . The examiner ( who will be typed in the airplane ) asks you about the things that are specific to each airplane , but this is n't really a lot different than him asking you questions specific to a Cessna or a Piper during your private pilot checkride . The PTS specifies general Areas of Operation 's instead of saying exactly what needs to be tested for every aircraft type . Here they are for a type rating : Section 1 : Preflight Preparation Areas of Operation I. Preflight Preparation Task A : Equipment Examination Task B : Performance and Limitations Task C : Water and Seaplane Characteristics ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Seaplane Bases , Maritime Rules , and Aids to Marine Navigation ( AMES/ASES ) Section 2 : Preflight Procedures , Inflight Maneuvers , and Postflight Procedures Areas of Operation II . Preflight Procedures Task A : Preflight Inspection Task B : Powerplant Start Task C : TAXIING Task D : Sailing ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Seaplane Base/Water Landing Site Markings and Lighting ( AMES , ASES ) Task F : Pre-Takeoff Checks III . Takeoff and Departure Phase Task A : Normal and Crosswind Takeoff Task B : Glassy Water Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task C : Rough Water Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Confined-Area Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Instrument Takeoff Task F : Powerplant Failure during Takeoff Task G : Rejected Takeoff Task H : Departure Procedures IV . Inflight Maneuvers Task A : Steep Turns Task B : Approaches to Stalls and Stall Recovery Task C : Powerplant Failure -- Multiengine Airplane Task D : Powerplant Failure -- Single -- Engine Airplane Task E : Specific Flight Characteristics Task F : Recovery from Unusual Attitudes V. Instrument Procedures Task A : Standard Terminal Arrival/Flight Management System Procedures Task B : Holding Task C : Precision Approaches ( PA ) Task D : Nonprecision Approaches ( NPA ) Task E : Circling Approach Task F : Missed Approach VI . Landings and Approaches to Landings Task A : Normal and Crosswind Approaches and Landings Task B : Landing from a Precision Approach Task C : Approach and Landing with ( Simulated ) Powerplant Failure -- Multiengine Airplane Task D : Landing From a Circling Approach Task E : Rough Water Approach and Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task F : Glassy Water Approach And Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task G : Confined-Area Approach and Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task H : Rejected Landing Task I : Landing from a No Flap or a Nonstandard Flap Approach VII . Normal and Abnormal Procedures Task A : Normal and Abnormal Procedures VIII . Emergency Procedures Task A : Emergency Procedures IX . Postflight Procedures Task A : After-Landing Procedures Task B : Anchoring ( AMES/ASES ) Task C : Docking and Mooring ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Beaching ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Ramping ( AMES/ASES ) Task F : Parking and Securing
Engine failure is not that common . For a gas turbine engine , a press release by <URL> gives some data as a reference point . In 1995 they quoted various engines as having a dispatch rate of between 99.99 % and 99.89 % . That is only 0.01 to 0.11 % of flights could not depart due to an engine issue . However , that does n't identify in flight failures , best captured by the inflight shut down ( IFSD ) rate . Data on this is difficult to get for specific engines , as the OEMs consider it competitive information , so the best guide is probably as mentioned the ETOPS rating . The ETOPs fleet is <URL> as achieving a shut down rate of less than 0.01 per 1000 engine hours . Another way of defining reliability is the ( repair ) shop visit rate ( SVR ) . Figures given for this ( by GE in the same link as above ) were between 0.085 and 0.231 visits per 1000 flight hours . However , this covers both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance ( i.e. failures ) , so perhaps does n't identify what you want . For piston engines , the answer to this <URL> probably has some useful data . In addition , Continental <URL> in 2014 that they had an IFSD rate of 0.0061 per 1000 flight hours , which they claim is the most reliable piston engine in general aviation . This compares with " less than " 0.01 for gas turbines , so , it seems very similar . It maybe possible to find a better value for the IFSD rate for gas turbines . Given the rate is so low , it really needs to be quoted to more than 2 decimal places , or given per 100,000 flight hours . Ultimately , I would expect the IFSD rate for gas turbines to be lower than for piston engines , due to the huge economic incentive gas turbine manufacturers and the commercial airline industry has increasing reliability for turbofan engines , that does not exist to the same extent , for general aviation piston engines .
$ V_1 $ is takeoff decision speed . It is based upon : Runway length Temperature Reduced thrust takeoff Takeoff weight Takeoff flap setting If $ V_1 $ is higher than $ V_R $ , then ( as far as I am aware ) , $ V_1 $ will be adjusted to be the same as $ V_R $ . You have to make the decision to takeoff by the time you rotate , so it does not make much sense to have $ V_1 $ higher than $ V_R $ . $ V_2 $ is takeoff safety speed . During a one engine inop takeoff we would accelerate to and climb at this airspeed to our acceleration height ( a height we could level off at and be safe from obstacles while we further accelerate ) . We also referenced certain flap transitions on takeoff to $ V_2 $ ( e.g. $ V_2 +15 $ - flaps 0 ) To address the rest of the question , $ V_1 $ and $ V_2 $ are primarily used in large aircraft . In light twins you also need to be aware of $ V _ { MC } $ . $ V _ { MC } $ is the minimum controllable airspeed with an engine inop . In particular you do not want to be slower than this airspeed during climbout in case of engine failure .
Well , the 3 points you make are easily demonstrable to be true , and also a fairly unique feature of all three if looked at side-by-side . The 747 is the only one with an obvious hump towards the front of the aircraft . This upper row of windows is unlike either of the other two Photo Aldo Bidini : : source : <URL> The A380 has an entire upper row of windows - it does indeed have 2 full decks . Richard Vandervord source : <URL> If it has 4 engines , but neither a half upper deck and hump or a full upper deck ( and it 's an airbus ! ) then yes it is an A340 Aero Icarus source : <URL> However , that is not all the 4 engine passenger aircraft . The BAe 146 is a 4 engine regional airliner , and you could add to your distinguishing features " has a T-tail , must be a 146 " Adrian Pingstone source : <URL> And then we 're into the Ilyushins . The Il-96 , is easily distinguishable from the similar ( ish ) A340 as it is considerably smaller - hard to tell from a close-in photo , but in real life if one were parked next to the other the IL-96 is smaller . Anna Zvereva source : <URL> The Il-86 has 4 engines but does not fit your criteria , as it only remains in service with the Russian Military , but the Il-62 is still in commercial service . It 's very easy to distinguish by having its 4 engines mounted on the tail Tim Rees source : <URL>
There are such a thing as " Quick Change " aircraft , allowing entire ' pallets ' of chairs to be exchanged for cargo . <URL> Image courtesy of canalblog.com <URL> Image courtesy of airliner.net <URL> to show the process . Military transport aircraft can also be fitted out with stretchers or seats , or whatever other combo of stuff you want . To the best of my understanding these lock in like any other cargo pallet in the floor . They are less concerned with aesthetics and more with practicality : <URL> Image courtesy the DOD via Wikimedia <URL> Image courtesy of aarcorp.com
The flying boom method uses a rigid boom which is " flown " by an operator in coordination with the pilot in order to make a connection with a receptacle on the second aircraft . The boom is retracted when not in use . Though <URL> if it comes in contact with an aircraft , <URL> . The probe and drogue method uses a trailing hose with a basket on the end . Pilots will guide a probe on their aircraft into the basket to connect with the hose . The hoses are retracted when not in use . Though the crew has less control of the drogue , which <URL> , there is less danger to the aircraft than from a boom , and it could allow the aircraft to stay further away from the tanker . The boom method was developed early on in the Cold War , when <URL> . They needed a method that would transfer fuel as fast as possible in order to reduce the time it took to transfer the large amounts of fuel needed . Because the boom is rigid , it is capable of a higher transfer rate . The importance of bombers meant that SAC got their way , and the KC-135 fleet was equipped with booms . Today , almost all US Air Force planes capable of aerial refueling use the boom system . The US Navy on the other hand , along with most aircraft in other countries , uses the drogue system . Though this method is not capable of the high transfer rates of a boom , it is much more flexible . A refueling aircraft may only be fitted with one boom , and this requires extra design work and integration with the fuselage . The drogue system , on the other hand , is more simple , and does not need a dedicated operator . This means that it can be more easily fitted to the refueling aircraft , even <URL> , and larger aircraft can have multiple drogues . Another point is that smaller aircraft such as fighters are not capable of receiving fuel at the full rate the boom provides , so they have less benefit from the system . Although a boom can have a <URL> , this still commits the tanker to one aircraft at a time and one type of system per flight . Also , aircraft such as helicopters <URL> . When the Air Force was looking at a replacement for its tanker fleet in the early 2000s , a <URL> to determine what standard the new tanker should support . The report suggests some options for the best combination of methods . In the end , the Air Force selected the <URL> for the contract , which will include both the boom and the drogue options for refueling . This will provide better support to aircraft from other branches or countries , while maintaining support of the existing aircraft that use a boom .
You need some inhomogeneity to extract energy . For gliders there are three basic ways to do that : <URL> : The sun heats up the ground which in turn heats up the air above it . Hotter air is lighter and rises up . It keeps rising as long as the <URL> of the atmosphere is above the <URL> rate . This means that three conditions must be met for thermals to occur : 1.1 Sunshine 1.2 Sufficient atmospheric lability 1.3 Ground that easily heats up , such as forest or sand . <URL> : Air streams across a hill and rises up on the windward side . Behind mountain ranges you might also find <URL> , an atmospheric oscillation caused by wind blowing across a mountain . <URL> : Here the wind gradient in the atmospheric boundary layer is exploited by flying turns while pulling up when turning into a headwind and diving down when turning into a tailwind . This is currently only used by Albatrosses and has been experimented with by Ingo Renner , but is much too stressful for human pilots if done for extended periods . Look at the <URL> in your glider and try to fly circles when you see an indication of rising air . Tighten the circle when climb rate decreases and flatten it when it increases in order to center the glider in the thermal .
A variable area nozzle helps to adjust the exit pressure of the combustion gases to ambient pressure . When they leave the turbine , the combustion gases have still some remaining pressure which is converted into speed by a convergent contour of the nozzle . If the combustion gases have enough pressure to be accelerated to supersonic speed , the nozzle is actually first convergent and then divergent to achieve the best acceleration of the flow . The convergent , subsonic flow accelerates until in the section with the smallest area , called the throat , the speed of sound is reached , and the following divergent section accelerates the now supersonic flow further until its pressure drops to ambient pressure . This con-di-nozzle needs to adjust both the cross section of the throat and the cross section of the exit area . Failure to get especially the throat area right will mean substantial thrust loss in operation . Afterburning engines need adaptable nozzles due to the different operating conditions in dry and wet mode , so they profit the most from adjustable nozzles . Reheating the exhaust gas means to increase its volume , so the nozzle needs to become wider to be properly matched . In general , if the exit speed of the combustion gases is supersonic , an adjustable nozzle is required . Even some early jets without afterburners had an adjustable nozzle : The central cone of the <URL> nozzle could be moved fore and aft , which changed the location of the bulbous aft section , helping to get the throat area right . Note in the picture below that the cross section widens again in the last part of the nozzle , which shows that the exhaust stream of the Jumo engine was mildly supersonic . Airliner engines would only gain little from an adjustable nozzle , and considering the mass increase of a fully adjustable nozzle , would in total have lower efficiency . Their exit speed is still subsonic - please note that the speed of sound in the heated combustion gas is much higher . At 500 ° C the speed of sound is almost 560 m/s . The variable area fan nozzle tries to do for the fan flow what the regular nozzle does for the core flow of a jet . So this is indeed a related concept . The picture below is copied from the US patent 2011/0302907A1 and shows an adjustable end part of the cowling ( crosshatched , 54 ) . Even though the exit speed of the fan flow is subsonic , its mass flow is much higher than that of the core in airliner engines . By adjusting the exit pressure by varying the exit area it can squeeze out some performance gains .
To better understand what flutter is , see the structure as a mass-spring system like a <URL> that has a <URL> attached to it . The aerodynamic forces both make the spring stiffer and dampen the movement . Crucially , they will act with a delay to the motion of the spring pendulum . Since we are dealing with oscillatory phenomena here , this delay causes a phase shift . The amount of damping increases with dynamic pressure and the phase shift angle decreases with flight speed . Things start to get interesting when the phase shift angle approaches π . Now the damper will not work against the movement of the spring pendulum but will support it . Instead of reducing the amplitude of the movement , it will increase it - damping will become negative * . <URL> . There are several ways to shift that point outside of the flight envelope : Reduce the mass or inertia of the mass-spring system : Now the <URL> of the system will be higher , so the phase shift will approach π at a higher speed . Moving the engines closer to the fuselage will increase the bending eigenfrequency of the wing , so any flutter that involves wing bending will be suppressed . A typical case would be the flutter resulting from the coupling of the <URL> with the wing bending mode in swept-back flying wings . Make the spring stiffer : This again raises the eigenfrequency of the spring , so a stiffer structure will shift the flutter speed up . This is no panacea , however : When the <URL> was developed , flight test revealed flutter of the horizontal tail . A professor from Kansas recommended stiffening of the tail spar and was so convinced that this would cure the flutter that he joined the next test flight , only to crash with the aircraft . As it turned out , the stiffening shifted the flutter speed up such that the forces involved broke the spar while flutter was non-destructive with the softer spar at a lower speed ( like in <URL> ) . Change the Eigenmode of the spring : If the motion of the bending wing will at the same time add a torsion , and that torsion will result in lower angle of attack and , consequently , lift on the up-moving part of the cycle and vice versa , the aerodynamic damping can be increased . By <URL> , the engine mass will introduce such a torsion moment into the wing . Of course , when placed further outboard , the engine mass will cause a larger torsion angle with the same torsion moment , so shifting the engines out towards the wingtips makes this more effective . Shift the resonance speed below minimum flight speed : This might sound silly , but works sometimes : When flying fast enough , the phase shift can be small enough to turn aerodynamic damping back into the positive region , and the plane will not flutter with that particular flutter mode . But it might still flutter at a <URL> ... Generally , to achieve positive damping , the center of gravity of a part should be ahead of its <URL> . In the case of control surfaces , their center of gravity should be in or ahead of their hinge line . That is the reason for <URL> ! * to be precise : As long as damping retards the motion , the damping term is mathematically negative and turns positive when it starts to support it .
I ca n't speak for General Aviation , but based on the number of tapes I 've seen , it would n't be outside the scope of reality to think the aircraft manufacturers have a partnership with 3M to come up with as many different types of tape as possible . For wiring repairs alone , I know our shop keeps at least 20 various types of tape on hand in our bench stock area to grab in a hurry . There are probably another 20-30 other types of tape we may use in rarer situations , but do n't keep on hand . We 'll usually order that on an as needed basis . There are a number of different types of " Speed Tape " as well . These are commonly used as very temporary structural fixes for small holes , dents , etc. . . on certain parts of the aircraft . It looks a lot like a sheet of aluminum foil , but it 's some of the stickiest stuff I 've ever dealt with . I know we also have different Mylar tapes that are used for a number of different applications . One of the applications , in particular , is when floor panels are sealed . The sealant can take 24-30 hours , in some cases , for a tack free cure . Since we want to use the airplane sooner , we can cover it with Mylar tape . It 'll allow it to cure while under the tape . After the cure , we 'll simply pull the tape up and continue business as usual . There are a number of other specialized tapes I 've seen for various other applications . I do know that I have seen duct tape on bleed duct insulation . This is rare , but sometimes the insulation gets torn and people use duct tape to repair it . Quite frankly , I 've never stopped to look and see what the approved tape is for that , but if there was one and only one application for duct tape , that might be it . I ca n't offer you an exact number , but they most certainly number in the hundreds if not thousands ! Oh , and one other thing I 've noticed is that Boeing tapes are usually different than the tapes specified by Airbus ! So , each manufacturer has chosen certain tapes for certain applications and purposes , although some are interchangeable . If you really wanted to get crazy and technical , each tape comes in different widths too . All of these come in standard widths of 1/4 " , 1/2 " , 1 " , 2 " , and 3 " . I 'm sure there are other width 's too , but I know I 've seen all of those sizes . Quite frankly , it 's dizzying and unbelievable how much tape is on an airplane !
The first pressurized aircraft were piston powered , beginning as early as 1921 with a modified Airco DH .9 A containing a pressurized enclosure for the pilot . Throughout the 20s and 30s , pressurization systems developed in reciprocating powered aircraft with benchmarks like the <URL> being the first pressurized aircraft using bleed air from its super chargers to pressurize the cabin and the <URL> , the first pressurized airliner . World War II saw plenty of pressurized pistons like versions of the <URL> and the <URL> , as well as the <URL> . Postwar airliners were also pressurized like the <URL> , the <URL> and the <URL> were all good examples of this . With the introduction of jets , these quietly faded into obscurity . There are a few pressurized piston single and twins in operation today , though manufacturers did not make very many . Probably the most successful pressurized single is the <URL> series introduced in the 1980s and still in production today , in bother the form of the reciprocating PA-46-350 Mirage and the turbine powered PA-46-500 and -600 Meridian . In the late 70s and early 80s a number of manufacturers attempted to enter the pressurized entry cabin class single engine market . Cessna offered a Pressurized version of the <URL> called the P210 which is no longer produced but still popular with GA pilots today . Mooney , after finding marginal success with its pressurized <URL> from the 1960s , decided to produce a pressurized six seat cabin class airplane called the <URL> . It was stillborn due to financial pressures from Mooney 's new owners but the best technology from it was cannibalized in a ill-fated partnership with Aerospatiale ( now Daher Socata ) in Tarbes France to produce a single engine turbine airplane which eventually became the <URL> ( TBM stands for Tarbes Mooney ) . Even a few homebuilt piston singles have been pressurized . <URL> , <URL> , and piston versions of their <URL> are all pressurized and capable of nearly 300 KTAS at FL250 . More piston twins have been pressurized as well . Cessna produced a pressurized version of the <URL> called the P337G , as well as the <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Piper produced the <URL> . Beech produced the <URL> as well as a variant of the <URL> called the B88 . Rockwell produced the <URL> .
The different terms represent different weights or masses1 . For each flight , the weights are taken into account for several reasons . A brief description about these is below : <URL> ( MEW ) Also called Manufacturer 's Weight Empty ( MWE ) or Licensed Empty Weight It is the weight of the aircraft " as built " and includes the weight of the structure , power plant , furnishings , installations , systems and other equipment that are considered an integral part of an aircraft . This excludes any baggage , passengers , or usable fuel2 . <URL> ( ZFW ) This is the total weight of the airplane and all its contents ( including unusable fuel ) , but excluding the total weight of the usable fuel on board . As a flight progresses and fuel is consumed , the total weight of the airplane reduces , but the ZFW remains constant . Maximum zero fuel weight ( MZFW ) is the maximum weight allowed before usable fuel and other specified usable agents ( engine injection fluid , and other consumable propulsion agents ) are loaded . <URL> ( OEW ) ( Roughly equivalent to basic empty weight on light aircraft ) It is the basic weight of an aircraft including the crew , all fluids necessary for operation such as engine oil , engine coolant , water , unusable fuel and all operator items and equipment required for flight but excluding usable fuel and the payload . <URL> It is the carrying capacity of an aircraft . It includes cargo , people , extra fuel . In the case of a commercial airliner , it may refer only to revenue-generating cargo or paying passengers . <URL> ( MTOW ) This is the maximum weight at which the pilot of the aircraft is allowed to attempt to take off3 . <URL> ( RTOW ) Depending on different factors ( e.g. flap setting , altitude , air temperature , length of runway ) , RTOW or maximum permissible takeoff weight varies for each takeoff . It can never be higher than MTOW . More information is on <URL> . <URL> ( MLW ) This maximum weight at which an aircraft is permitted to land3 . The following image depicts takeoff weight components . <URL> <URL> ( MRW ) also called maximum taxi weight ( MTW ) It is the maximum weight authorized for maneuvering ( taxiing or towing ) an aircraft on the ground . <URL> It is the total aircraft weight at any moment during the flight or ground operation . This decreases during flight due to fuel and oil consumption . 1 : As <URL> , several recent references use the term mass instead of weight . Having a Physics background , I tend to agree and know the difference between <URL> . I did not use mass as most of the references I included referred mass as weight . However , using correct terminology , all the weights mean mass . Thanks <URL> for pointing it out . 2 : What is the different between usable fuel and unusable fuel ? Usable fuel is the fuel on board an aircraft that can actually be used by its engines . The small amount of fuel that can not be drained from the tanks is the unusable fuel . For calculation of range , usable fuel is used . For weight and balance total fuel ( usable + unusable ) is used . 3 : This restriction is due to structural , design or operational limitations .
Mainly by the soon to happen descent and landing , probably at a place you were n't expecting to go . :) If you are seated behind the wing , you might be able to see smoke or flames coming out of the engine , but other times it will just quit with no visible indicaion , depending on the cause of the failure . Sometimes ( usually just after takeoff when the airplane is slow ) it is obvious and you can tell by the change in the sound of the airplane ( one side suddenly gets quiet or there might be a loud bang depending on why it failed ) , a sudden yaw in one direction ( the nose pulls to one side ) , and an abrupt pitching down of the nose ( done by the pilot to maintain flying speed ) . Other times ( like during a descent with plenty of speed and the engines at idle , or when the center engine of a three engine airplane fails ) it can be hard for even the pilot to tell without looking at the instrumentation , so you probably wo n't notice it . Another major clue would be when the seatbelt sign unexpectedly coming on , without an announcement or indication of turbulence , and the flight attendants suddenly putting things away and getting ready for landing , especially when you are n't close to your destination . Being briefed for an emergency landing is also a dead giveaway ( no pun intended ) .
To certify any Commercial Jet Plane worthy of flying , a 2 engine plane must be able fly with just 1 engine running a 3 engine jet like the Lockheed L1011 or DC10 with just 1 a 4 engine jet with just 2 . Although not a requirement , the 747 , A380 could fly on one engine but are not be able to maintain the cruise altitude indefinitely and will eventually become long-range gliders so they must land immediately . The landing approach and procedures vary on how much the plane weighs prior to landing . Would the passengers be notified , asking to take the brace position during landing ? Brace Positions are only assumed on impact emergencies , like crash landings . Losing an engine does n't mean you are going to crash so no brace will be assumed . Would such event have an accident investigation report ? There will be an investigation but if the plane landed safely it wont be filed as an accident . The plane plus the engines passed its FAA , EASA , etc Certification so it may be a number of reasons why the engine malfunctioned , like bad maintenance , faulty parts etc. . This is an extract from wikepedia -- <URL> Shut downs that are not engine failures Most in-flight shutdowns are harmless and likely to go unnoticed by passengers . For example , it may be prudent for the flight crew to shut down an engine and perform a precautionary landing in the event of a low oil pressure or high oil temperature warning in the cockpit . However , passengers may become quite alarmed by other engine events such as a compressor surge -- a malfunction that is typified by loud bangs and even flames from the engine 's inlet and tailpipe . A compressor surge is a disruption of the airflow through a gas turbine engine that can be caused by engine deterioration , a crosswind over the engine 's inlet , ingestion of foreign material , or an internal component failure such as a broken blade . While this situation can be alarming , the condition is momentary and not dangerous . Other events such as a fuel control fault can result in excess fuel in the engine 's combustor . This additional fuel can result in flames extending from the engine 's exhaust pipe . As alarming as this would appear , at no time is the engine itself actually on fire . Also , the failure of certain components in the engine may result in a release of oil into bleed air that can cause an odor or oily mist in the cabin . This is known as a fume event . The dangers of fume events are the subject of debate in both aviation and medicine . Would this report later be available for general public , as are the reports of various significant air disasters ? It depends , as you read above the flight deck crew may shut down an engine because of low oil pressure . Would that have significance of becoming public knowledge ? However as an example , if the problem of an engine failure escalates to the manufacturer then the airline may ground the fleet and that then becomes public knowledge and the reason why because the airliner would give media statements . It all depends on the severity of the problem . Like this one that got reported -- <URL> 20 August 2007 ; B-18616 , 737-800 , 30175/1182 , FF 11 Jul 02 , Okinawa , Japan : Engine # 1 caught fire shortly after docking destroying the aircraft . No fatalities . The cause was the detachment of a slat pylon bolt which fell off and pierced the fuel tank which leaked and ignited . According to the JTSB the washer that should have held the nut in place probably detached during maintenance 6 weeks before the incident . The design of the nut has since been changed to limit the likelihood of detachment .
On many early jet airliners water was sprayed it into the engine air intake or compressor where evaporation cooled the air and allowed cooler , denser air to be ingested by the engine . The result was increased thrust , especially needed for operation from hot and high airfields , or a cooler temperature in the hot section of the engine at the same thrust . From <URL> : Water injection was first used over 45 years ago on commercial transport aircraft to increase thrust . Boeing 707-120 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C-6 engines and later , the Boeing 747-100 &amp; 200 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT9D-3AW and -7 AW engines , all used water injection for thrust augmentation . This report discusses various techniques for water injection : ahead of the low pressure compressor . This is the common method for thrust increase in hot and high conditions . ahead of the high pressure turbine . This is used in cold weather , when injection ahead of the low pressure compressor would run the risk of ice accretion . together with fuel into the combustor . This technique is commonly used with stationary gas turbines in order to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions . And <URL> is more specific on the system : Four water-injected Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C -- 6 engines were used on early Boeing 707 -- 120 Stratoliner aircraft to augment takeoff thrust on days above 20 ° F . This system used a belly tank to store demineralized water and an electrically driven boost pump to deliver water to the four engines . At that point , an engine-driven mechanical pump increased the pressure to about 400 psi for injection before the low-pressure compressor ( LPC ) on days as cold as or colder than 40 ° F and for injection into the high-pressure compressor ( HPC ) only on days between 40 and 20 ° F . What would happen if kerosene instead of water was filled into the water tanks was tried out by a <URL> : The aircraft collided with a bridge , shearing off both wings , after a double engine failure occurred during takeoff . The water-injection system to cool the engines during takeoff was inadvertently filled with kerosene instead of water . More recent work on water injection focused on the reduction of nitrogen oxides which form in lean combustion and high temperature . By lowering the temperature level of the combustion process , the <URL> can be greatly reduced .
Every country handles aircraft registration differently ( but generally similar ) . Im sure Boeing could tell you who they originally delivered the airframe to but if it was sold from there it could legally go anywhere and would only be subject to local registration legislation . Here in the <URL> but not all countries may keep a record like that and as far as I know there is no global aircraft registry . it is still impossible to find actual aircraft 's owner in a matter of minutes Knowing who the owner is and finding the owner are two very different things . <URL> Several aviation databases list the Boeings -- identified by their call signs TF-ARN , TF-ARH , TF-ARM -- as belonging to leasing firm Air Atlanta Icelandic , but that company says it sold them in 2008 . Since then , the aircraft appear to have changed hands several times . Malaysia Airports says it 's entitled to sell the Boeings under the country 's civil aviation regulations if no owner comes forward . So it seems they do know who owned them at some point ( most likely the last people to put readable registration numbers on them ) .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
I get this question a lot from people who are apprehensive about flying with a private pilot . I 'm afraid I wo n't be reducing these fears in any way . Let 's review some general statistics during 2008 . Note - these stats are n't specific to light or single engine aircraft : <URL> reported there were 1.21 fatalities per 100,000 flight hours for private aircraft ( Part 91 operators ) . <URL> reported there were 1.26 fatalities per 100 million miles travelled by automobile We can equate that to about 2 million hours ( estimating an average speed of 50mph ) . This gives us 0.063 fatalities per 100,000 driving hours . Private aircraft have a fatality rate about 19 times greater than driving . It is also true that a majority of the accidents that occur are pilot error ( 71 % ) and could have been prevented . There are risks involved when taking to the sky as a private pilot and understanding these risks is part of the continual learning process . The key to safety is performing careful planning , keeping current and proficient , knowing when to cancel flights or turn around and not to exceed your capabilities or the capabilities of your aircraft .
end question
start question
At which point does an airliner start to pressurize/depressurize the cabin ?
The cabin pressure is maintained automatically by a controller . Before the flight , the pilots will input two numbers : the cruise altitude and destination airport altitude . From these two inputs , the controller will manage the cabin pressure schedule automatically . From the Boeing 737 FCOM : The cabin begins to pressurize on the ground at higher power settings . ( ... ) In the air , the auto controller maintains a proportional pressure differential between airplane and cabin altitude . ( ... ) The descent mode is activated when the airplane descends 0.25 psi below the selected FLT ALT . The cabin begins a proportional descent to slightly below the selected LAND ALT . ( ... ) While taxiing in , the controller drives the outflow valve slowly to the full open position depressurizing the cabin . For passenger comfort , the controller is programmed so that the rate of cabin pressure change is kept to a minimum . The cabin is actually slightly pressurized on the ground both during takeoff and landing , i.e. the cabin altitude is lower can the outside altitude . It smoothly transitions to and from cruise cabin pressure as the plane climbs or descends .
Here is the text extracted from Boeing 's 777 Flight Crew Operations Manual : In cabin altitude controller cruise mode , maximum cabin altitude is 8,000 feet . When the takeoff field elevation is higher than 8,000 feet , the cabin descends to the cabin cruise altitude while the airplane is climbing . When the destination airport elevation is greater than 8,000 feet , cabin altitude controller cruise mode maintains a cabin altitude of 8,000 feet . ( ... ) At touchdown , the outflow valves open to depressurize the cabin . Therefore , when the airplane is on the ground , its cabin altitude is always equal to the ambient altitude . When it is in the air , the maximum is 8000 feet . Whether the cabin altitude will climb to 8000 feet or descend to 8000 feet depends on field elevation . The reverse happens upon landing . If landing at an airport at 10,400 feet , the cabin altitude is < = 8000 feet until touchdown , then raises to 10,400 feet . This make sense - if the outside pressure is greater , how do you open the door ? ( well with enough force you can , but I will leave it to your imagination as to what happens the moment the door is opened ) .
As the commentators above pointed out , there are some issues with your question due to the concepts involved . As @Bluephoenix mentioned , the security domains are defined in ARINC 664 Part 5 . These domains specifically apply to ARINC 664 networks , though the concepts can be applied to other networks . You also reference a Cabin Intercommunication Data System ( CIDS ) which is an Airbus specific system in the A320 series -- which does not have an A664 network . But we can look at its functions to see which domain would apply if they were implemented on an A664 network . The A664P5 descriptions are : Part 5 describes the objectives , characteristics , services and functions that should be satisfied and provided by the aircraft computing network as a whole . Their allocation to specific networks and devices is the responsibility of aircraft network designers and specified by other documents . The Aircraft Control Domain ( ACD ) and Airline Information Services Domains ( AISD ) can be divided into sub-domains . The ACD can be divided into two Sub-domains : • Flight and Embedded Control System Sub-domain , where the aircraft is controlled from the flight-deck • Cabin Core Sub-domain , which provides environmental functions dedicated to cabin operations , such as environmental control , passenger address , smoke detection , etc. . The AISD can be subdivided into two sub-domains : • Administrative Sub-domain , which provides operational and airline administrative information to both the flight deck and cabin • Passenger Support Sub-domain , which provides information to support the passengers Subsystems within the Passenger Information and Entertainment Services Domain ( PIESD ) could be supplied by different suppliers . Passenger Owned Devices ( POD ) can be supported by onboard networks . The Passenger Owned Devices Domain ( PODD ) is constituted of only those devices that passengers may bring on board the aircraft . Reviewing the CIDS documentation of functions and comparing it to the A664P5 definitions , it would appear that the CIDS has functions within the ACD Cabin Core Sub-domain ( environmental control , passenger address , smoke detection , etc. ) and AISD Administrative Sub-domain ( operational and airline administrative information to both the flight deck and cabin . ) To your last question , ACARS is a legacy communications link designed to support Airline Operational Control ( AOC ) and Airline Administrative Control ( AAC ) messaging . With advances in data link systems and applications , ACARS can refer to either the AOC messaging ( most correctly ) or the entire data link system ( not so correct ) which also includes Air Traffic Control ( ATC ) messaging . The ATC portion of data link falls under the ACD . AOC and AAC messaging fall into the AISD . In the case of the A320 , the CIDS does not have a direct interface to the AOC/AAC messaging . These messages ( manifests , gate assignments , etc. ) are printed out in the cockpit and passed to the cabin crew as needed . On some newer aircraft , this may be accessible by the cabin crew via a terminal .
Some aircraft may have a special " ETOPS APU " that can be purchased , but many aircraft simply have THE APU that they come with . It is maintained to the standards required in the approved ETOPS program , and is either run during the ETOPS portion of the flight , or else has some means to ensure that it will reliably start even when cold-soaked . ( For instance , at least one ETOPS program requires that the APU be started shortly before the top-of-descent on enough flights to " prove " that it does , in fact , start up reliably even in a worst-case cold-soaked scenario . ) Most ( perhaps all ) APU 's in aircraft currently in production have the general capability of being started in flight , so that particular aspect of things is n't unique to the ETOPS world . Documenting the reliability of the APU is a uniquely ETOPS thing , but so much of ETOPS is about exactly that : demonstrating and documenting just how reliable the hardware is . It often is n't different hardware , but the same equipment as in a non-ETOPS aircraft , but maintained &amp; tracked to higher standards .
The fuselages are circular ( or nearly circular ) in shape for two <URL> : The main reason is that for a circular cross section , the pressure loads are resisted by tension , rather than by bending loads in non-circular sections . Also , the non-circular sections have stress concentrations when pressurized , which may lead to failure . In case of a circular design , the flow will not separate under small ( to moderate ) angles of attack and in sideslip . In case of non-pressurized aircraft , the fuselages are dictated by volume constraints and are usually rectangular in shape as it is more efficient in space utilization . <URL> Source : adg.stanford.edu In the case of pressurized aircraft , the best option structurally is to have a circular fuselage , but in order to have a useful internal space , an elliptical or ' double bubble ' design is used , with an outer circular section and divided internal sections , like the A380 . <URL>
Short answer Aeronautical data ( fixes , waypoints , navaids , instrument procedures ) are delivered to aircraft operators and avionics manufacturers referenced to the WGS-84 ellipsoid . To make is simple the ellipsoid is the volume enclosed by the revolution of an ellipse which best approximates the shape of the Earth , generally in a given region only . WGS ellipsoid is a global one which approximates the whole Earth shape . <URL> FAA provides rules for designing procedures , and algorithms to use to compute various elements , including the distance between two fixes and their relative azimuths . This is described in <URL> The United States Standard for Area Navigation ( RNAV ) , Appendix 2 . TERPS Standard Formulas for Geodetic Calculations : 1.0 Purpose The ellipsoidal formulas contained in this document must be used in determining RNAV flight path ( GPS , RNP , WAAS , LAAS ) fixes , courses , and distance between fixes . Notes : Algorithms and methods are described for calculating geodetic locations ( latitudes and longitudes ) on the World Geodetic System of 1984 ( WGS-84 ) ellipsoid , resulting from intersections of geodesic and non-geodesic paths . These algorithms utilize existing distance and azimuth calculation methods to compute intersections and tangent points needed for area navigation procedure construction . The methods apply corrections to an initial spherical approximation until the error is less than the maximum allowable error , as specified by the user . [ ... ] 3.4 Direct and Inverse Algorithms . The Direct and Inverse cases utilize formulae from T. Vincenty 's , Survey Review XXIII , No. 176 , April 1975 : Direct and Inverse Solutions of Geodesics on the Ellipsoid with Application of Nested Equations . FMS use <URL> to compute distances and angles , in order to match aeronautical data . A visible consequence is that , except for meridians and equator , prlongating a geodesic on an ellipsoid does n't draw a closed curve , as if it were a great circle : <URL> Detailed answer : Need for WGS-84 New modes of navigation have emerged with a significantly better accuracy than using VOR-DME and inertial : RNAV ( area navigation ) generally uses GNSS ( global navigation satellite system , one GNSS being the US GPS ) , RNP ( required navigation performance ) , and more generally performance-based navigation ( PBN ) . At the same time these new direct modes of navigation ( compared to a navaid-to-navaid paths ) can define paths extending to thousands of NM , and commonly crossing different geodetic reference systems where latitude , longitude , height and vertical can have significantly different values . As an illustration , the measure of " height " used to be referenced to local MSL ( mean sea level ) : <URL> ( <URL> ) But a GPS receiver , which is now the main instrument to locate a point , can only provide the height above an ellipsoidal simplified Earth model . Latest receivers also provide the height above the simplified sea level model ( <URL> ) , but only as the result of a transformation of the ellipsoidal height , etc. . <URL> ( <URL> ) As visible above , the direction of the local vertical is impacted by the transformation , creating another problem for airborne vehicles navigation . This can <URL> with differences for the same point up to 100m depending on the reference used : For these reasons , it appeared very early that all elements involved in mapping , navigation and ATC must use the same datum , in all countries . ICAO has selected WGS-84 . <URL> : The Council [ ... ] on 28 February 1994 , adopted Amendment 28 to Annex 15 , introducing the provisions concerning the promulgation of WGS-84-related geographical coordinates . [ ... ] WGS-84 on <URL> : The WGS 84 datum surface is an oblate spheroid ( ellipsoid ) with major ( equatorial ) radius a = 6378137 m at the equator and flattening f = 1/298 .257223563 . The polar semi-minor axis b then equals a times ( 1 − f ) , or 6356752.3142 m. Current country compliance with ICAO selected datum : See <URL> . Aeronautical databases FMS uses aeronautical data ( fixes , procedures ) in the <URL> format , where legs are WGS-84 paths . <URL> Processing of aeronautical data I 've had difficulty to get the exact authoritative document making mandatory the use of ellipsoid geometry in a FMS , however , from FAA <URL> related to RNP , FMS are part of the so called GPN means which are referenced to WGS-84 : Geographic Positioning Navigation ( GPN ) . Navigation based on geodetic calculation of geographic position referenced to the WGS-84 ellipsoid . Global positioning system ( GPS ) , wide area augentation system ( WAAS ) , local area augmentation system ( LAAS ) , flight management system ( FMS ) , RNP , and area navigation ( RNAV ) are examples of GPN . When calculating distances between fixes , or angles , a FMS computes geodesics which are shortest paths between fixes . On a sphere this would be a great circle . On an ellipsoid this has <URL> , Vincenty 's formulas are one of
Essentially this has been explained to me as " you 're a trip hazard . " ' Additionally , inferences that if power/lights go off , you 'll be stepped on and trip people , particularly people in your row ( do n't know how this applies so much if you 're a couple/by yourself ) , and in the way in the necessity of evacuation , or in the case of a flight attendant needing to rush to the window to look out . How they 'd do that with your legs in front of you in a seated position , I do n't know . I do know it 's not allowed on QANTAS ( and Jetstar ) , Emirates , American , Virgin Blue , or North West ( now defunct ) . In my experience it 's pretty common to hear the captain or stewardess announce or tell a passenger if you 're on an overnight or long flight . ADD : Just got off a QANTAS flight , this is more of less what they said . The flight attendants need to be able to rush to a window or an overhead locker/passenger in a window seat in an emergency situation , so bags cluttering floors , people sleeping on floors is n't ok . Also mentioned was the danger to passenger in case of turbulance , etc , the comparison with sleeping on the back seat floor of a car in motion was mentioned vis a vis unexpected swerving or breaking .
This depends on the aircraft : DC9 , MD80 , B727 , B737 On some ( especially older model ) aircraft doors such as the Boeing 737 for instance this is directly dangerous , since the slide is attached on the inside by hand with the means of a girt bar to the aircraft . There is hence no way to open the door without the slide going off should it be armed . There is a helpful notice in red on the outside to " stand clear " when the red banner is crosses the window , the indication that it is armed . Judging by the space required and force the doors have , this is still most probably very dangerous idea that should not be used unless absolutely necessary . <URL> Airbus , B757 , B767 , B777 , MD11 , E-Jets On more modern aircraft , this is safe : opening the door externally will push the arm handle to the disarmed position before proceeding to open it . This is for instance the case on all Airbus aircraft . <URL> provides a nice example .
There are several ways to slow down an airliner : aerodynamic drag friction in the wheel bearings reverse thrust wheel brakes and a few even used a <URL> , but that went out of fashion a long time ago . If the runway is inclined , landing <URL> also will slow down the aircraft . Friction and drag you get for free , so I would rely on those first . Since they are highest when the speed is high , use them first until the aircraft is so far down the runway that it would overshoot without additional application of wheel brakes . Use spoilers and leave the flaps down to maximise the deceleration . Only at the end add wheel brakes so you have slowed down to taxi speed when the exit of the runway is reached . So the best answer is none of the above but : Coast along with flaps and spoilers out until you need to brake more to avoid an overshoot . Then apply wheel brakes . The exact way how brakes should be applied depends on <URL> .
The FAA says ( per 14 CFR 91.185 ) : If the clearance limit is not a fix from which an approach begins , leave the clearance limit at the expect-further-clearance time if one has been received , or if none has been received , upon arrival over the clearance limit , and proceed to a fix from which an approach begins and commence descent or descent and approach as close as possible to the estimated time of arrival as calculated from the filed or amended ( with ATC ) estimated time en route . This seems to answer your question unless you have a more specific one . You can descend to an IAF as you see fit and commence any approach . ATC will clear the way .
From the airports I 've flown into , it 's usually , you 're just guided into a spot , and most often , there are n't any lines there , mainly since an FBO should be able to generally serve something as small as a Cessna , to a Gulfstream , or bigger . Flight School Ramps might have painted lines and dedicated parking for their fleet , but they know who will be parking there and what type .
Windmill starts are a rather last-resort type of thing . Lots of things have to go wrong before pilots will be attempting that . First , an engine has to fail . Since airliners are required to have at least 2 engines , and be able to fly on one engine , this is n't a dire emergency . Pilots will work the associated checklists . If there is no apparent issue they may attempt to restart the engine using bleed air from the running engine . If there is an issue they will leave it shut down . With thousands of planes in the air , this sort of thing happens pretty much daily . <URL> , and generally due to <URL> . Pilots may be more aggressive in trying to get even a damaged engine started , as a damaged one is better then none at all . The APU may be started and used to help start the engines as well . <URL> which tends to be running out when gliding with no engines running . <URL> , engines are required as part of certification to demonstrate windmill starts . <URL> This establishes limits and guidelines that are put into the aircraft checklists . Pilots know that if they maintain a certain air speed , the engines should reach a certain RPM , which will allow them to be started . Of course if multiple engines have already failed , there is a chance that this issue will prevent a restart .
I 'd refer to FAR 91.3 ( a ) : The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for and is the final authority as to the operation of that aircraft . Therefore , I believe you have a duty to determine that the aircraft is properly maintained . While that does n't mean disassembling it and checking the work yourself , I do think that its reasonable to verify that the maintenance logs have recent entries , and appear orderly . At my old flight school , I never got any grief at all ( and occasional complements ) when I wanted to see the logs for some reason . If they give you so much as an eye-roll when you ask to see the logs , that should be a cautionary sign . I think it is also an easy way to meet the maintenance guys , and be introduced to them as a careful , thoughtful pilot . ( The Mx guys likely despise " cowboy " pilots who bring back damaged equipment , and do n't report it . ) You 'll get to know some people at the new school , and get a reputation right off the bat .
Chances are you would not survive but lets explore this a bit more in depth for the sake of education . This <URL> explores the very issue . There is some research that has gone into the topic of hitting the ground but the research is rarely about cases from the height you are asking about ( ~ 30,000 ft ) . Some relevant info First off at that altitude you really ca n't breathe that effectively so hypoxia will be your first concern followed closely by extreme cold . Hitting water : Studies of bridge-jump survivors indicate that a feet-first , knife-like entry ( aka " the pencil " ) best optimizes your odds of resurfacing . Hitting the ground : The question of how to achieve ground contact remains , regrettably , given your predicament , a subject of debate . A 1942 study in the journal War Medicine noted " distribution and compensation of pressure play large parts in the defeat of injury . " Recommendation : wide-body impact . But a 1963 report by the Federal Aviation Agency argued that shifting into the classic sky diver 's landing stance -- feet together , heels up , flexed knees and hips -- best increases survivability . Your best bet for surviving the airplane break up is if you are stuck in a situation similar to that of <URL> who did survive the situation you describe . Unfortunately there is some debate as to what actually happened so take the info at face value . " Speed has never killed anyone . Suddenly becoming stationary , that 's what gets you . " -- Jeremy Clarkson
No , not at all - there are at least two Delta Wing aircraft that feature a conventional tail , and they are the Gloster Javelin and the Mig 21 <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( Courtesy of <URL> ) In addition ( and I believe this is within the spirit of what you 've asked ) you then you have aircraft such as the Eurofighter Typhoon or Saab 37 Viggen which feature canards : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Ultimately , " Delta " only describes the wing shape - though there of course features of the shape that will lead to many designs appearing similar . The Wikipedia article has a nice infographic showing the general variations of Delta Winged designs : <URL> <URL>
A lot of consideration is placed on the airframe ( which has to hold for 20 + years ) rather than the passengers . One of the primary reasons is to slow corrosion of the aluminium airframe . This is also why the Boeing 787 is a lot more humid - corrosion is no longer an issue in a composite fuselage ( or a lot less at least ) . <URL> and the <URL> sum it up nicely I think : the greatest issue lies with the cold fuselage skin interacting with moist air , which will condensate and speed up the rate of corrosion . But condensation in the gap between cabin and hull can be lethal . This gap contains much of an aircraft 's wiring , and water can damage that wiring 's insulation . Such a problem is thought to have contributed to the loss of a Swissair DC-11 off the Atlantic coast of America a few years ago . Too much condensation causes other difficulties , as well . There have been cases when ice has built up inside the tailplanes of aircraft , causing their rudders to freeze and thus preventing their pilots from steering them . An aircraft such as a Boeing 747-400 can accumulate as much as 700kg of condensation before it reaches equilibrium . Even though that is only about 0.17 % of the 400 tonnes such an aircraft weighs fully laden , it is enough to cause problems for the pilot when he tries to trim the balance of the aircraft . And 700kg is about the weight of nine men . So the aircraft is carrying the equivalent of at least nine non-fare-paying passengers , in an industry where every extra kilogram affects fuel consumption and profit margins .
it is being claimed by the Airbus that their new planes offer more sound proofing than those of Boeing I guess you mean <URL> : No matter where they sit , all passengers benefit from the quiet A380 cabin with on average half the sound energy of other aircraft . Passengers ' feedback confirms the extraordinary contribution to their general well-being due to the absence of background noise on the A380 . In market research surveys the A320 is regularly rated higher than its rivals for the low level of noise in its cabin . Effective insulation in the cabin is one reason why passengers say they find the A320 a quiet aircraft in which to fly . The A320 cabin is the subject of continuous improvements and in its latest version , the noise has been reduced by a further 1dB . how do Airplane manufacturers tackle the problem of soundproofing the cabin There are a variety of methods soundproofing materials in the wall of the fuselage between inner and outer skins . choice of interior materials and furnishings etc. . adjusting cabin interior contours to allow lower airflow velocity . fuselage aerodynamics . engine nacelle accoustic liners . scalloped edges on engine exhaust nozzle . larger slower engine fans . sharklets . etc BBC <URL> One of the main sources of noise is wind . So during the design phase of modern aircraft , computational tools model the aerodynamics of the aeroplane to highlight areas of high airflow that are likely to increase cabin noise . This allows engineers to reshape their designs , says Alan Pardoe , director of product marketing at Airbus . Such techniques , he says , helped the double-decker Airbus A380 plane to be recognised by the UK Noise Abatement Society as the quietest jet airliner on the market . Airbus <URL> When it comes to making the A380 one of the quietest aircraft in the sky , it 's the small details that count ... in fact , more than 3 million of them ! This is the number of tiny perforations in acoustic linings on the large nacelles that surround and protect the A380 's jet engines . The acoustic material helps dampen noise created by the airliner 's four turbofan powerplants , ensuring the A380 is a friendly neighbour wherever it operates in the world . The A380 's nacelles are supplied by Aircelle , which has worked closely with Airbus in minimising the jetliner 's noise output during takeoff and landing . Acoustic panels are applied throughout the engine -- from the air inlet to the exhaust nozzle . Each panel , which is produced from composite material or titanium , is designed to attenuate noise at different frequencies , further improving the soundproofing effect . Noise-reducing innovations include Aircelle 's 2-degree-of-freedom acoustic panels , which use a stack of two honeycomb composite sandwich layers separated by a porous wall . These panels dampen high-frequency noise from the engine turbines . With much of this noise source successfully dampened by the acoustic treatment , engineers and designers are now focusing their attention on treating other sources of aircraft noise , promising even quieter jetliners for the future . and <URL> The Airbus-developed Zero-Splice engine nacelle liner was designed to reduce the noise generated by the jet engines ' large fan , which represents almost half the noise during both approach and take-off . Following extensive studies carried out by Airbus on how to reduce fan noise , it was found that splices used to join the engine nacelle inlet 's acoustic panels generated forward fan noise -- which was counter-efficient to the liner 's acoustic treatment . Airbus therefore developed the Zero-Splice nacelle liner as a single 360 deg . piece of composite , which is comparable in size to the diameter of an A320 fuselage . It is , I think , obvious that measures that reduce engine noise on the ground also reduce it in the cabin . They also write about how wing sharklets reduce noise . I 'd guess there are many other measures and design choices that are introduced to reduce noise . What proportion of the total aircraft development cost ... I 'd be surprised if Airbus or Boeing make public any breakdown of their development costs . You can find general breakdowns like the following but I havent found any that break out soundproofing development costs . <URL>
This answer details the procedures used in the US . Other countries will be similar , possibly with different names for some positions . When preparing for a flight , after their flight plan has been filed , the pilots will first talk to the clearance delivery controller . This controller clears their planned route and altitude . At larger airports this may be done via text rather than voice . The pilots may also call their company dispatch to get the route or fix any problems . If there are significant delays in effect at the airport , the pilots may have to talk to the metering controller . This controller is responsible for holding aircraft at their gates . Weather at departure or arrival airports may reduce the number of aircraft the airport can handle . There is no sense in sending the aircraft onto the busy taxiways if they will just have to sit there and wait for weather or traffic before they can depart . The metering controller will eventually hand the pilots off to the next controller when the aircraft is finally cleared for departure . Again at larger airports , the next contact will be with the ramp controller . This controller is responsible for a ramp area near the terminals . The controller will let the pilots know when it 's safe to push back , and which way they should turn at the end of the push back . After starting their engines , the pilots will receive instructions for exiting the ramp . Once pilots reach the edge of the ramp area , they will call the ground controller . This controller is responsible for managing traffic on most of the taxiways . The pilots will receive instructions for taxiing to their departure runway . If this route takes them across an active runway , the ground controller will have to clear this with the tower controller , or possibly have the pilots switch to the tower controller for permission to cross the runway . At small airports , the ground controller handles all of the previous positions as well . Upon reaching their departure runway , the pilots will switch to the tower controller . The tower controller is responsible for the active runways . Busy airports may have multiple tower controllers managing different runways . The tower will clear the pilots for takeoff , ensuring proper separation between any other arriving/departing aircraft . Shortly after the aircraft starts climbing , the tower will hand the pilots off to the departure controller . Depending on the location and traffic levels , this could be the same controller and frequency as the approach controller . This position is part of the <URL> ( Terminal Radar Approach Control ) facility . High traffic areas will have their own separate TRACON facility , while in lower traffic areas this will be combined with a tower location . In other countries this is referred to as the Terminal Control Center ( TCC ) . The approach controller 's responsibility is routing aircraft leaving airports in the area to avoid conflicts between aircraft , but often the pilots will just fly the published departure procedure . The departure controller receives reports of weather such as precipitation or icing and passes this on to other aircraft . Upon reaching a certain altitude , the departure will hand the pilots over to the center controller . This position is part of an <URL> ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) , often abbreviated to " center " . The US has <URL> , each further divided into different sectors . Sectors are consolidated between controllers depending on traffic levels . Other countries refer to this as an Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The center controller is responsible for traffic at higher altitudes , primarily enroute traffic . The aircraft may pass through multiple centers , and each center may have different sectors controlled by different controllers . The pilots will be handed off between these controllers . Pilots must request altitude or course changes ( for efficiency or weather reasons ) , and controllers may issue changes for traffic reasons . Controllers also handle pilot reports of conditions such as turbulence . If the flight is crossing <URL> , the flight may be handed over to an oceanic controller . These controllers do not always have radar coverage of the aircraft they are controlling . They rely on the aircraft following their published routes and altitudes , and providing regular position reports . The lack of radar means there are also more strict rules about deviations from flight plans . As the pilots get closer to their destination , they will start on their arrival procedure . This usually specifies altitudes and possibly speeds , so the pilots will need to plan when to start their descent in order to meet these restrictions . The center controller will know the procedure and instruct them to follow it , and possibly issue deviations as traffic requires . At some point before arriving , the pilots may also contact their company at the arrival airport . They may need to coordinate passenger needs such as wheelchairs or medical/security issues , or commu
The aircraft weight needs to be 70 kg or less . FlyNano mentioned this on their <URL> ( my paraphrasing ) : Do I need a pilot 's license to operate FlyNano ? According to the <URL> ... FlyNano is below the necessary weight of 70kg ... In Finland for example no classification , no aviation license or medical certification are needed . But skill is needed . Nevertheless a good understanding of water plane operation , rules and aviation safety is requested . ... I found that <URL> . But regardless , and emphasized by FlyNano also , pilot skills are required .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
end question
start question
How frequently do aircraft get struck by lightning ?
Lightning strikes airplanes <URL> , and for modern airplanes , it is not a big deal . Although , to put a definite number is not realistic , as it is not analogues to how many miles a car runs with a full tank . On average , <URL> that lightning strikes an airplane once every 1000 hours of flight time . Although , <URL> : The frequency of lightning strikes that an airplane experiences is affected by several factors , including the geographic area where the airplane operates and how often the airplane passes through takeoff and landing altitudes , which is where lightning activity is most prevalent .
The short answer is that there 's no real difference between a " trainer " aircraft and an " owner " aircraft when they roll off the manufacturer 's assembly line . Below are two mid-1970s Piper Cherokee Cruisers - take my word for it that they both have virtually identical instruments , avionics , and interior finishing . One of these airplanes is the " trainer " I did much of my early training in , and had a little over 11,000 hours of flight time as of when the school sold it . The other is ( probably ) an owner-flown airplane with about 2,000 hours of flight time . Can you tell which is which ? The answer is in the spoiler box at the end of this post . " Trainer " aircraft generally have flight and operational characteristics that makes them " suitable for use in training " -- though what that means <URL> . In modern training aircraft you 'll almost always find the following : Dual controls Much like a Driver 's Education car has an extra brake , aircraft used for training will have dual controls so your flight instructor can correct any mistakes the student makes before they become dangerous . ( Dual controls are in fact required for flight training , at least under FAA regulations , though interestingly <URL> . ) 2-4 person seating capacity Hand in hand with dual controls goes dual seating - You need a place for both a student and an instructor . You do n't generally find many trainers that will seat more than four people , as those larger aircraft cost more to purchase and operate . Some kind of intercom Students and instructors generally wear headsets , and an intercom system makes it easier for them to communicate . One or more Radio systems Part of flight training includes learning how to communicate with Air Traffic Control and other pilots , and how to use radio navigation systems . This requires at least a communication radio , so there 's usually one either installed or available ( a handheld unit ) , and in most modern trainers you 'll find one or more navigation radios of various types . In addition trainer aircraft tend to be inexpensive to maintain ( mechanically simple ) , operate ( relatively fuel-efficient ) , and tend toward the slower end of the speed spectrum ( because it 's easier for a student to keep up with a slower aircraft ) . It 's important to note that not all " trainers " fit this mold : The <URL> is , by designation , a Trainer aircraft , but its goal was to train Air Force pilots , many of whom would go on to air combat roles . The things a T-6 is optimized to teach are very different from what a Piper Cherokee or Cessna 172 are optimized to teach . Not surprisingly many of those same characteristics are also desirable in a plane you might buy to fly yourself : Dual controls in case you take a friend or another pilot along ( or in case you want to take instruction in your own aircraft ) , an intercom to let you talk to your passengers , and radios so you can navigate and communicate in the air traffic system . Because of this many pilots who elect to buy an airplane purchase what we would consider " trainer-class " aircraft , frequently models similar to the ones they trained in ( and in the used market , frequently aircraft that were used for flight training at some point ) . When you leave the " trainer " range you tend to find faster aircraft , more complicated systems , more attractive finishing elements ( plush cabin interiors , fancy paint schemes ) , and more seating capacity . You also find aircraft that begin to specialize more : Where trainers tend to be well-rounded the " non-trainer " planes tend to excel in specific areas , serving specific niches in the market ( the <URL> is a high-performance aerobatic aircraft favored by many airshow performers , <URL> feature extensive speed optimizations and are favored by many pilots who use their planes for long-distance travel , the <URL> is a " luxury " cruiser/transportation aircraft suitable for flying corporate executives to and from smaller airports , etc. ) . N2269Q is the trainer , now sporting a shiny new paint job . N32711 is the owner-flown airplane , with its factory paint . ( <URL> )
Current RVR is obtained from the METAR , yes , which in turn is obtained from <URL> on the airport site . Minimum allowable RVR is obtained from charts ( <URL> ) , more specifically the <URL> for approaching an airport . And on the <URL> chart for departing . Example : <URL> R is RVR in hundreds of feet , V is Visibility in miles , in this example . Units can change and will be denoted , check full PDF for all examples .
1 ) ADS-B will stop working when the transponder is switched off at the gate after arrival in Tokyo . Airliners use the 1090 MHz Extended Squitter variety of ADS-B which is the worldwide standard . 2 ) I do n't have hard numbers but I guess it is approximately 90 percent of the flights . At most economical cruise flight levels , ADS-C is mandatory . 3 ) ADS-C is a common system . For aircraft not equipped , position reporting of HF is the alternative . And soon space based ADS-B will be available as well .
The key when selecting an aviation mechanic or shop to maintain your newly purchased plane is " time in type " : You would not take a Cessna 172 to the United Airlines maintenance facility at JFK , not would you take an A380 to the local Cessna service center ( even though it would be perfectly legal to do so ) . If you 're buying a new aircraft ( of any type ) the manufacturer will be able to recommend an authorized service center for you , and you 'll probably want to use an authorized service center ( especially for warranty work ) . If you 're buying a used aircraft you can still contact the manufacturer and ask about authorized service centers . They will usually be happy to give you a list of places near you that can work on your aircraft , and who are blessed by the factory to perform warranty service , complete mandatory service bulletins where the manufacturer is supplying parts / covering labor , etc. . Aside from manufacturer recommendations there are a lot of other ways to find a maintenance shop that beat simply asking Google and picking one at random . For the most common single-engine piston aircraft ( your typical Piper Cherokee , Cessna 172/182 , etc. ) you can almost certainly find a mechanic at your local general aviation airport - ask the FBO where you 're storing the plane for recommendations or talk to other pilots on the ramp about who they use for maintenance . For more esoteric aircraft ( high-performance singles , twins , vintage/classic/warbirds , etc. ) your best resource is often a type club ( e.g. . <URL> for Beechcraft Bonanzas , or <URL> for the Piper Comanche ) - Google can help you track down a type club , and the members can help you find mechanics who have experience working on your particular airplane . Type clubs are also a great source of other information ( like where to find parts ) .
Generally speaking , the only reasons for which a flight plan would be actually rejected would fall under what you referred to as " errors or omissions " . But , the operational reasons you cite might lead to an amendment to your flight plan ( which the pilot would most likely receive as an amended clearance ) . IFR flight plans filed electronically are rejected by the flight plan processing computer if the filer files an impossible flight plan . I would presume that a flight plan filed verbally or in person through ATC or FSS would also be rejected for the same reasons , probably by the same computer , but with the rejection relayed to you through the third party . See these rejection examples that AOPA lays out in <URL> : If you plan a " direct " flight , point-to-point , follow the rules and enter the correct equipment . For example , if " / G " ( or " slash Golf , " meaning that your airplane is equipped with an IFR-approved GPS and a Mode C transponder ) or " / I " ( you have loran or VOR/DME and a Mode C transponder ) are not entered for these kinds of flights , the air traffic control computer will reject your flight plan because that route ca n't be flown with less capable equipment . and , File fixes that are actually on the airways that you file in your IFR flight plan . Pilot error causes flight plans to be rejected when the filed points are not on the routes that are filed . Depending on how you file , other possible rejection reasons might include formatting errors , a non-existent clearance limit , or might depend on the specific filing means ; I am certainly not familiar with all means of filing . I have filed in person with a sheet of paper when standing in the office at the bottom of a control tower , over the phone , and online , and over the aircraft radio ; I 've never had an IFR flight plan actually rejected . Beyond such reasons , a flight plan will typically not be rejected as such , but may well be amended . The reasons you propose -- traffic density , route issues , etc -- are usually negotiable , or are circumvented by amendments to your clearance . Certainly , these issues may present challenges , but they can usually be worked around . These flight plans do receive scrutiny ; IFR clearances are all about traffic separation , and this is ATC 's primary task . Understand that to file an IFR flight plan is , essentially , to apply for a specific routing for specific time frame ; you may or may not be given your requested routing when you receive your actual clearance . Receiving a clearance different from the route filed , or receiving a clearance amendment while en-route are both common . Note that an amendment need not be ATC initiated : the pilot can request an amendment , either before or during a flight . One final note on TFRs : you can sometimes ( often ? ) fly through these , even under VFR ; you just have to get approval . For example , I 've flown through the Grand Forks TFR while flying VFR with ATC approval .
Its much safer , you do n't kill the carrier aircraft if you drop away and have a major aircraft malfunction . Gravity gives you the separation you need . If you treat the two aircraft like a formation flight , which it essentially is , its dangerous for the critical aircraft to go belly up , ie blind , to the carrier . In an emergency the first step in formation flying is to ensure separation which the critical aircraft ca n't do because it ca n't see if it 's clear to descend and it may not have the ability to laterally sidestep . Thus , a blind push on the nose could kill both aircrews .
For the aircrew , at least in the aircraft that I 've flown , there is no defined checklist . You scan and then deal with anything that occurs ( inoperative equipment , pressurization issues , whatever you get ) with whatever checklists apply : if the lightning knocked out a hydraulic pump , run the checklist for the inop pump , etc. . Once you 're on the ground , maintenance has a HUGE checklist to work through , essentially checking every surface of the aircraft for damage and verifying that every piece of equipment still works . The more that the crew can tell them ( i.e. radios &amp; instruments unaffected , no equipment stopped working , pressurization normal , etc ) , the more of it they can sign off from the crew observation . But even then , it 's still pretty lengthy .
To understand how a helicopter works ( and in fact the mechanics of other aircraft too ) , it 's helpful for you to be familiar with a key concept in physics , called Newton 's Third Law of Motion . It says , in general terms , " for every action , there is an equal and opposite reaction " . Here 's a simple thought experiment . Picture yourself wearing a pair of rollerskates , standing up , holding a basketball . Now , throw the basketball out in front of you using a two-hand pass ( bring it to your chest and push it out in front of you ) . You 'll find yourself moving backwards on the skates . You wo n't be moving as fast backwards as the ball will be moving forwards , because you have more mass than the ball , but you 'll move , because the force of you pushing the ball out forward created an equal force moving you in the opposite direction . A helicopter , and in fact most powered aircraft , work the same way . when a helicopter 's rotor moves through the air , it pushes air downwards through a combination of its airfoil design , which moves air downwards as it passes over the top of the rotor , and an upward angle to the blade relative to the oncoming air that pushes the air with the underside of the rotor . By Newton 's Third Law , the force pushing the air downward creates an equal and opposing force pulling the rotor , and the helicopter attached to it , up into the air . <URL> To hover , all that 's required is for this force pulling the helicopter up ( you can consider it as either " lift " or " thrust " ) to equal the force of gravity on the helicopter , which is its weight . If these forces balance , the helicopter will remain the same distance off the ground . If lift is greater then weight , it will rise into the air , while if weight it greater , it will sink or fall . Now , normal aircraft have to move forward through the air in order for their wing to get the airflow needed to generate lift . A helicopter , by rotating its wing , can produce the airflow over the lift surface without the entire helicopter having to move forward ( or backward or sideways for that matter ) . So , it can rise straight up into the air and truly hover over a single spot on the ground . <URL> The tail rotor of a helicopter is necessary to counter another force produced by the helicopter ; torque . Torque is similar to force - really it is a force - but it 's being produced in a circular direction instead of a straight line . The helicopter 's engine uses torque to spin its rotor . Again , by Newton 's Third Law , if the rotor of the helicopter is being spun clockwise by the engine , the helicopter itself will begin to spin counter-clockwise . To counteract this torque , most helicopters have a second , smaller rotor which works the same way as the big one , but directs the force of its thrust sideways in the opposite direction to the way the helicopter 's body wants to spin . <URL> This sideways rotor does n't necessarily have to be on the tail , but it works best if it 's on the end of a long lever arm , such as the tail boom of the helicopter . The closer it is to the main rotor 's shaft , the more thrust it has to produce in order to counteract the torque of the main rotor . It does n't have to be on the side of the tail either ; many modern helicopter designs have the tail rotor spinning inside an aerodynamic duct in the middle of the tail : <URL> Helicopters also do n't necessarily have to have a tail rotor at all ; all that 's required is equal , opposing torque to that of the main rotor . A common substitute for a tail rotor is a second , counter-rotating main rotor : <URL> <URL>
Non-holographic radar systems such as those used in fighter aircraft and active guided missiles only point in one direction at a time . Normally , when the radar is in search mode , a mechanism inside the radar makes the beam move from side to side ( possibly up and down as well ) , so it has a wider field of view and can pinpoint the direction of any aircraft it finds . The aircraft with the radar warning receiver ( RWR ) sees a brief pulse of radiation every second or so : only when the beam is pointing in its direction . This way , it knows the radar emitter is in search mode , and the direction of the emitter . Every aircraft in the radar 's field of view will see the beam at different times , and they will all see the radar on their RWR screens . In a combat zone this is potentially a lot of emitters , but the RWR can analyse the radar signal to identify the radar : what type of aircraft , SAM , or ground radar it is , and whether it 's friendly or enemy . Getting the position of the target only every second is n't good enough to guide a missile towards it . When the radar is in track or launch mode , it stops scanning the beam , and keeps it pointed at the target aircraft . The RWR on the target aircraft now sees much faster pulses of radiation , so it knows that it is the sole target of the radar . At this time , it can warn the pilot of a missile lock . But because the radar is now only pointing in this one direction , other aircraft in the area do n't get illuminated by radar at all . Their RWR systems wo n't pick anything up . Only the aircraft that 's actually threatened gets the missile lock warning . In addition , the same analysis that can identify what type of radar is illuminating the aircraft can also identify fully active radar-guided missiles . Like when the aircraft 's radar is in track or launch mode , the missile 's radar emitter only points in one direction , and does n't scan , so only the target aircraft will see it . Obviously it 's a little bit more complicated than this . There are a lot of details about how frequent the radar pulses are , and how the RWR knows the range of the source , but I hope I 've captured all the important information in an understandable way .
In an event of failure of all engines of a commercial aircraft in mid air ... That would be a very rare event . In the modern cases where this has happened within an ATC area , it has not prevented location of the aircraft so far as I know . ... and no secondary backup or generators powering the plane Even a two-engined airliner has an Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) and a Ram-Air Turbine ( RAT ) . I believe they also typically have 10-15 minutes <URL> for critical systems . I do n't know if any airliner has ever lost all generators other than in cases where the aircraft was destroyed in flight ( e.g. PanAm 103 ) . would the ATC still be able to detect the aircraft with accuracy If an aircraft 's transponder and secondary-radar are not operating , ATC would rely on primary radar , which is less accurate , particularly for altitude . They would also ask the pilots for their position over VHF radio and ask other aircraft in the area to locate the aircraft . Example : <URL> All four engines flamed out due to ingestion of volcanic ash . Despite the crew " squawking " the emergency transponder setting of 7700 , the aeroplane could not be located by Air Traffic Control on their radar screens . The pilot communicated with ATC over VHF radio and later restarted the engines . The engines had enough electrical power to restart because one generator and the onboard batteries were still operating Example <URL> ( the " Gimli Glider " ) This 767 ran out of fuel mid-air and all engines stopped . The 767 was one of the first airliners to include an Electronic Flight Instrument System ( EFIS ) , which operated on the electricity generated by the aircraft 's jet engines . With both engines stopped , the system went dead , leaving only a few basic battery-powered emergency flight instruments . The pilot communicated with ATC Winnipeg and First Officer Maurice Quintal began to calculate whether they could reach Winnipeg . He used the altitude from one of the mechanical backup instruments , while the distance traveled was supplied by the air traffic controllers in Winnipeg , measuring the distance the aircraft 's echo moved on their radar screens . So yes , If the aircraft with all engines out is in radar range and ATC are attentive , they can track the aircraft 's location .
A couple of my CFIs have asked me to help them park the airplane ( in absence of a tow bar ) when I was pushing the airplane by putting one hand on the hub and the other on the propeller near the hub , and them ( the CFIs ) pushing the tail down and nose wheel elevated . But <URL> , it is not a good thing : ... never push or pull on the prop blades . Forget what anyone has told you about pulling near the hub or the strength of the propeller . Aluminum blades can bend , and it does n't take much to put the blades out of track with one another . This <URL> says the same thing : Avoid pulling the airplane around by the prop . Yes , this seems the perfect solution to a vexing problem of how to change the airplane 's position without having to walk around and get the tow bar , but it 's worthwhile to make the extra effort . Neither the engine nor the prop particularly benefit from the loads imposed by horsing the whole airplane around .
One particular example I can recall is Extra 330 . Modification with electric engine have been built ( Extra 330LE ) keeping the rest of the aircraft quite similar to the original petrol-engine version as far as I know . According to <URL> electric version was measured to produce 14.5 dB less noise compared to the combustion engine aircraft . Maybe you can try too look for other combustion engine aircraft converted to electric without making other significant modifications ( I am not aware of any other than this Extra 330LE though ) as a source for data you are looking for .
Many small , light aircraft are equipped with an autopilot today . They can range from very simple autopilots , without altitude selector and so on , <URL> <URL> , ST SYS 30 , $ 12,000 to advanced systems with altitude selector , automatic trim and so on . <URL> <URL> , Bendix/King KFC 225 , $ 15,000 - 42,000 And with this GPS , feeding the autopilot with data , it has the abilities of an airliner . <URL> <URL> , Garmin ® GTN ™ 750 , $ 17,000 You have to know , the systems in the general aviation industry are getting better and better . Of course they are way below the complexity of the avionics of airliners , but the features are the same if not more . For example : A captain of an airliner has to review or change the flight plan with the FMC , respectively MCDU on Airbus , a not very straight-forward device to control the plane . Of course , the FMS has a lot more capabilities than a GA GPS , but one of it 's primary features is the input of the flight plan . And in that , from the usability-view , the Garmin ® GPS has the better solution : An all-in-one navigation device with touchscreen input .
During testing , the rear fuselage is protected by a beam made of oak or even steel to distribute the tail strike loads and to protect the aircraft skin . A340 during tail strike tests . This one is literally blazing along the runway ... For normal operations , the protection is removed . However , tail strikes must not cause flight-critical damage , so a few precautions are taken during design : No hydraulic or electrical lines must run along the bottom of the rear fuselage . If there are still mechanical control elements like pushrods , they and their collapsing supports must not be close to the bottom of the fuselage . The tail strike location must be outside of the pressurized part of the fuselage . The main protection against tail strikes , however , is procedural : The <URL> to allow lift-off before a critical pitch attitude is reached . Delta wing aircraft are much easier to over-rotate , so the Concorde used a retractable tailwheel for tail strike protection :
When dealing with lightning protection , there are two significant areas that must be addressed : direct effects of lightning and indirect effects . The FAA provides guidance on these two areas in the following advisory circulars : <URL> <URL> The lightning zone analysis from the AC 20-155A will define the test requirements for the airframe and help determine the level of testing for installed equipment based on its location in the aircraft . At the aircraft level it can be a very complex and drawn out process negotiating the specific testing required with the FAA . Once that is done , requirements and verification for the equipment can be developed . A short summary of that process from AC 20-136B is : 6 . Steps for Showing Compliance . a . The following seven steps describe how you may comply with 14 CFR 23.1306 , 25.1316 , 27.1316 , and 29.1316 requirements for your aircraft 's electrical and electronic systems : ( 1 ) Identify the systems to be assessed . ( 2 ) Determine the lightning strike zones for the aircraft . ( 3 ) Establish the aircraft lightning environment for each zone . ( 4 ) Determine the lightning transient environment associated with the systems . ( 5 ) Establish equipment transient design levels ( ETDLs ) and aircraft actual transient levels ( ATLs ) . ( 6 ) Verify compliance to the requirements . ( 7 ) Take corrective measures , if needed . b . The steps above should be performed to address lightning transients induced in electrical and electronic system wiring and equipment , and lightning damage to aircraft external equipment and sensors that are connected to electrical and electronic systems , such as radio antennas and air data probes . Additional guidance on lightning protection against lightning damage for external equipment and sensor installations can be found in SAE ARP 5577 . Testing of individual LRUs is typically under RTCA document <URL> . Section 22 covers Lightning Induced Transient Susceptibility and Section 23 covers Lightning Direct Effects .
If you can , you 'll fly in maintance yourself to get it fixed , perhaps by chartering a cargo plane on the way . If you can land the aircraft , you can probably get any spare part in through the same runway , with varying degrees of difficulty . If it 's bad , Boeing has an <URL> who should be able to fix pretty serious damage . Often , it may just be patched up until it 's good enough to fly to get it to a place with better facilities .
There are several advantages , here are a few : Design costs are lower for a family of aircraft ; major parts of the aircraft are the same in the family . A family of aircraft share the same type certificate . This means it is cheaper for the manufacturer to certify a family of aircraft . Within a family of aircraft , pilots can operate all aircraft with no or very little additional training required . This saves the airline a lot of money . Maintenance on a family of aircraft is cheaper since the majority of parts are common to all family members . This means having less spare parts in stock and less training for maintenance personnel . For an airline there is often a benefit in having some capacity diversity in a fleet . A new route often starts at low capacity . When the volume of passengers rises replacing the flight by a larger aircraft from the same family is not disruptive to crew schedules .
This depends on the type of radar system and its intended application . <URL> . The early radars could not tell the difference between aircraft types , any kind of movement was coordinated beforehand on the friendly side and anything that was not pre-arranged was considered foe . The early <URL> that resided on the <URL> could be trigger by as little as a dense flock of birds . The early radar data from the <URL> was processed on the <URL> a very early ( very primitive ) system for coordinating a great deal of weather , radar , and flight information . After WWII and through out the cold war era newer tech was built to solve the issue of coordination . The modern <URL> that is now in use provides at least some way to pick apart radar targets . With the advent of modern computer processing and the ability to analyze radar returns beyond <URL> it is possible to determine ( with great certainty ) the make of an aircraft by its <URL> ( and in some cases thermal signature ) . Also known as <URL> . Everything ( <URL> ) have a radar cross section and once a cross section has been identified it could be used again to check against future pings . One could go as far as to say there is some historical precedent around this . The general idea of " if it comes from over there is one of them , if it comes from over hear its one of us " is very much how <URL> and the identification of the actual plane was less important than identifying that it was there . If an unidentified target entered a radar area and did not identify its self , over the radio , with some kind of transponder and or at a preordained time it was intercepted . Not until visual identification was made was it not longer considered a threat . Here in the states by 2020 the civilian world will be sending <URL> to supplement ( and potentially replace ) radar returns .
They send it to the manufacturer ( or other lab ) who knows how to get the data out . Old black boxes stored the data on tape which they take out put in a reader and print out the data . Partially damaged tape can still be read , the result will be a data stream with holes in it . Newer black boxes use solid state storage ( like one of those 8gig memory cards ) . It will be put in a reader to read it out . The exact format of the data will be specific per manufacturer . Then the analysts will make nice graphs of it for the investigators .
end question
start question
How much hydraulic fluid is in a jet airliner ?
FCOM for the A320 describes 3 independent hydraulic systems , with accumulation reservoirs for each at 6.5 L ,12.5 L &amp; 14.5 L ( 1.7 USG ,3.3 USG &amp; 3.8 USG ) respectively , so +33.5 liters is a good bet , which translate to 26-33 kgs depending on fluid type . Note that more fluid will be available in the system , but how much exactly you will need a mechanic to answer .
So there are potentially two ways to interpret your question . First is a pilot who holds an FAA commercial pilot certification , second is a societal occupation label generally referring to a pilot performing as a crewmember of a 14CFR Part 121 scheduled air carrier airway , or colloquially , an airline pilot . In both cases the idea that any pilot need to be exceptionally capable at math is a fallacy . I suspect it 's a holdover from the 40 's and 50 's when all flight planning calculations needed to be done by hand . Now all of that is automated and even allowed during the FAA written tests . Additionally , needing strong math skills is often claimed when an individual is actually thinking of a test pilot or aeronautical engineer , which both require very strong algebra and calculus skills . That said , there are some areas in the higher level written exams that rewrite you know how to calculate weight and balance , but these all relay on standardized some equations that are n't exceptionally difficult for even a novice . These written exams include the Airline Transport Pilot ( which will be required for the second interpretation ) , Dispatcher Certificate , and Flight Engineer .
Accumulators act as storage for flow . At times of peak flow demand , the accumulator delivers a large flow supply at nominal pressure until its oil has been used up , after which the maximum flow is the pump flow . The same functionality that a capacitor or a battery has in an electric system . If there are no accumulators installed : Peak hydraulic power is greatly reduced : peak flow supply equals the pump flow , and pressure drops when the pump supplies high flow . Pressure surges are high when the pump is running and demand suddenly stops , the accumulator evens out the pressure peak , again like how a capacitor functions . ( From @Gerry comment ) .
1 . The combustion chamber Temperature here is usually controlled via design of the chamber shape , in particular of the location where combustion occurs vs the airflow . Image <URL> In the image above you can see that the fuel line ( 2 ) terminates in a nozzle . The nozzle will turn the fuel into tiny droplets to increase the surface area and hasten the combustion process . Indicated with ( 6 ) are instead the main air holes : the cool air coming from the compressor ( on the left side ) enters the chamber with high pressure from these holes . Note that the holes are distributed in an annular pattern : high pressure air will be entering from all sides of the chamber . The result is that the flame will not directly touch the walls of the chamber , we then got rid of conductive heat transmission . Convective is a non-issue : cool air keeps coming and hot air goes into the turbine . Radiative heat transmission might be an issue , but the new air incoming will cool the walls via conduction . The engine can thus run without the combustion chamber melting . Note that the use of specific materials does greatly improve the conditions , as higher temperatures can be tolerated , and thus better efficiencies achieved . 2 . The turbine cooling air The air is usually bled from a stage of the compressor , usually a high pressure stage , in a similar manner as done for the air used for the passenger compartment . 3 . Thermal stresses a. Short term Over the duration of a flight the blades will warm up when the engine is turned on and cool down at the end of the flight . Intermediate load variation do not have a significant impact . Even the initial warming and the final cooling do not pose a significant problem . The only effect to be taken into account is that the rotating hot blades will become slightly longer : a special material is placed on the opposing stationary side so that the gap is minimal during operation and the losses due to the air going around the blades ( instead of between them ) are reduced . b. Prolonged The most problematic aspect here is the so called " creep " : the blades , after prolonged use , will tend to change shape , because they tend to be more malleable at high temperatures , exactly when they are under high tensile load . This becomes a problem over the lifetime of an engine , not during a single flight . To mitigate this problem the blades are nowadays manufactured as single crystals : each blade is a single solid block of metal and not made up af many tiny crystals as the metal tools we use everyday . This is because under tensile load each of the crystals can slide over its neighbors ( and high temperatures facilitate this ) changing the shape of the blade . To visualize it , think of a rubber band that does not go back to its original form . Having a single crystal prevents this sliding , giving more strength to the blade .
Generally , sweep makes the wing less efficient in creating lift and complicates structural design . Therefore , aircraft designers try to use as little sweep as they can get away with . However , <URL> onset of <URL> and allows jet aircraft to improve their maximum transport performance ( the product of speed and payload ) . <URL> both help to fly faster , but backward sweep is preferred because it makes stalling less dangerous , improves <URL> and allows to make the wing lighter . The shortest take-off distance will be achieved with zero sweep - if it were not for the need to limit compressibility effects , sweep would only be used in tailless aircraft . The main factor for choosing wing sweep is the desired <URL> , and Mach 0.85 has become the de-facto standard . Other factors are : Relative wing thickness : A thicker wing needs more sweep , because thickness adds its own compressibility effects . Maximum local Mach number of the airfoil where recompression is shock-free : So-called <URL> help to reduce sweep , and older designs ( before the A310 ) had generally more sweep because their critical Mach number would had been lower at equal sweep . Regulations have nothing to do with it , only engineering determines the sweep angle . Since the design cruise Mach number is <URL> at Mach 0.85 for long-range airliners , the sweep angle of different aircraft is very similar . Regional jets normally fly a little slower to improve fuel efficiency , and their sweep angle is less than that of their big , long-range cousins .
They have the usual transport options : shove into cargo area , on a flatbed truck , shipping container , ... They can also be attached below the wing of a large aircraft and flown with if there is no room in the cargo area . ( stolen from <URL> ) Notice the extra engine on the near wing .
This depends on how the systems are plumbed , and while this is likely an exception , for some airplanes like the EMB-145 , the answer is yes . The EMB-145 has 2 hydraulic systems . System # 1 serviced the outboard brakes and system # 2 serviced the inboard brakes and the parking brake . The parking brake actuated all of the brakes and this let you transfer fluid between the systems through the outboard brakes . This is n't a normal procedure , but one maintenance would walk you through if you had low fluid in one system and more than you needed in the other to balance the systems if you were out somewhere without the ability to service the hydraulic fluid . The procedure was either Depress and hold toe brakes Set parking brake Release toe brakes Release parking brake or the opposite , depending on which way you wanted to transfer fluid . This works in flight or on the ground ( <URL> )
Landing distance is a function of the formula Any change that will increase kinetic energy will require longer landing distances . When we land , the kinetic energy needs to go somewhere . It can be converted into heat with the brakes , opposed with drag from the thrust reversers or deployed spoilers Higher landing speed will cause an increase kinetic energy that must be converted on landing and thus you will have a longer landing distance . Braking , thrust reverser or spoiler issues will increase the landing distance because they will not be as effective ( take more time ) in converting kinetic energy . In a hydraulic issue , most likely the manufacturer has chosen to fly the airplane at a speed greater than needed for a normal landing ( VREF + 20 ) and will most likely not have the ability to use normal braking . Most jets use hydraulic fluid to stop the brakes . In the jets I fly , without normal braking means we use the emergency brakes which are not routed through the anti-skid system so precaution must be taken to not skid the tires . This all adds up to a substantial landing distance penalty . Hare the landing distances for some airplanes . Learjet family : Factor of 3.15 Learjet 45 family : Factor of 2.2 Challenger 604 family : Factor of 1.7 ( braking ) times 1.8 ( airspeed ) for a total of 3.06
Check out this plot ( taken <URL> ) , of the lift coefficient against angle of attack . During takeoff roll , lift will be increasing due to the speed increasing , however not enough ( in general ) for the plane to achieve takeoff without rotation . Once rotation starts , the lift increases dramatically , for ( a very rough ) example , consider a plane on takeoff roll , then rotating to 15 degrees angle of attack . By looking at the lift/AoA plot , we can see that the lift coefficient increases from roughly 0.55 to 1.7 , giving roughly 3 times as much lift as before rotation .
There are some answers to <URL> according to them the engine integrated drive generator ( IDG ) unit delivers 40KVA , 400HZ , 115V ; they do n't list a <URL> . This would result in 32 Kilowatts per IDG . So you have 64 Kilowatts at your disposal . The minimum load will depends on the avionics installed and can vary from plane to plane . At night load will be increased as a result of the use of interior lights as well as landing lights during takeoff and approach . Your load will be highly variant on the interior of the aircraft . As this is a luxury plane there could be a whole host of things inside like TV 's , lights , kitchen equipment etc. . You can find specific equipment installations in the <URL> for a given airframe . You can find a nice breakdown of the <URL> . As for how you can add it , you can simply add it as you would add any accessory , to the main bus ( by an A&amp;P of course ) . You will need to make sure the item can be added to the craft and in some cases there may be a stipulation along the lines of not using it during takeoff or landing . The amount of load will vary by aircraft and dependent on what else is installed . I 'd like to understand what electrical power sources are available ( engines ? APU ? GPU ? Other ? ) The engines ( while running ) are generally the main source of power . The APU is often used on the ground when the engines are off but the plane needs electronics on and can also serve to help start the engines . It <URL> . According to <URL> the G550 runs a <URL> that can output 45 Kilowatts . According to the site it will operate up to 37,000 + Ft. so it in theory could be run for the duration of a flight . A <URL> and only at airports that have them . Their output varies widely and a large variety of types may be available at any given airport .
A common hydraulic fluid used in aircraft is called <URL> . The fluid is artificially colored , but this does not depend on which circuit it is in . The <URL> on the manufacturer 's site addresses the color . Skydrol fluids are given a purple dye to make it easy to distinguish them from other fluids . But the dye does not usually last as long as the fluid does . The color may change from purple to gray or yellow or green , yet the fluid can still meet all used fluid specifications . Color is not a reliable indicator of fluid quality , and we recommend that the system be sampled for chemical analysis to determine if it is suitable for use . A dark amber color , however , is a cause for concern , and can indicate a severely stressed fluid . Call Solutia 's Technical Service for assistance if you are unsure about a fluid 's color . Our technical bulletin has a color chart to use as a guide . Initially the color helps to distinguish from other fluids , and having multiple colors would make it more complicated . It notes that the color also does not remain constant , so even if it were colored initially , it would probably end up changing anyway . It also mentions that a dark amber color can be an indicator of issues . I ca n't find any good pictures , but the lines are probably not color coded . Any colored hydraulic system components are generally purple ( like the fluid ) . The lines themselves <URL> , but the standard for hydraulic lines is <URL> . The end fittings are colored to identify the tube material type . The maintenance manuals will show the layout and label the different lines . Also , on <URL> , one report is from a mechanic that confused the green and yellow system fittings , which probably would n't have happened if they were color coded .
The main component of deicing fluid is either Ethylene Glycol ( EG , toxic ) or Propylene Glycol ( PG , non-toxic ) ( <URL> ) and depending on the category applied different amounts are used annually . There have been <URL> , which basically states : In water , EG is not persistent and biodegrades aerobically and anerobically . In air , EG is not readily volatile and its atmospheric half-life is approximately 1 day In soil EG is also not persistent and biodegrades anerobically in about 1 day EG is disposed of and treated at standard wastewater plants ( I think the above comments also apply to PG , but somebody will have to confirm that since I ca n't find anything that mentions it ) . PG is non-toxic and is used in quite a few products that you use every day , from pharmaceuticals to food additives and moisturizers . I ca n't confirm but one of the linked articles says that most of the DI fluid used in the US is PG based , which I would believe , but ca n't source . And from the article quoting an <URL> , Although EPA does not use such a system , the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Classification System for Acute Exposures defines ' relatively harmless ' as any chemical with an LC50 above 1,000 mg/L . The test results ... indicate that ethylene glycol and propylene glycol may be classified as ' relatively harmless , ' as defined by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service . There is also one manufacturer using <URL> which is a by-product of corn fermentation and should be relatively minor as far as environmental impact . There is also considerable movement in airports to " go green " and <URL> , especially considering that a larger aircraft can take more than 1000 gallons of diluted deicing solution at the rate of up to $ 12/gallon , quite a bit of which runs off the aircraft and onto the ground . <URL> Edit It may be important to note that the point of DI fluid is to keep the snow/ice off the aircraft until it leaves the ground , not assist in flight into known ice . Depending on the fluid applied , they usually only stay on until the aircraft reaches about 100kts . This means that most of the applied DI fluid is going to end up in the airports wastewater system because most will run off the aircraft on the ramp/apron , not spread around the countryside as the aircraft flies around .
A moderately quick search reveals a <URL> <URL> <URL> and an <URL> . From these I understood that : The hydraulic jack stall occurs when the aerodynamic force on the rotor blades exceeds the force the hydraulic actuator can apply . The actuators are controlling pitch of rotor blades and are applying force to keep the angle of attack high . When the angle of attack gets too high the blades stall which is associated with change in centre of lift creating a moment trying to rotate the blade to lower angle of attack , strong enough to overpower the actuator . The right pitch moment is because the retreating blades have higher angle of attack and approach stall earlier . The forward pitch moment is when the stall happens in higher G manoeuvre where the helicopter is pitching up and thus the blades in front are running at higher angle of attack and approach stall earlier . If the stall happens due to overspeed , the pitch moment will be back instead . In either case it will be opposite to the selected cyclic . The down collective moment is because the angle of attack decreases on the forward ( or backward ) and right blades , but does not increase on the other ones , so the total lift is reduced . The behaviour can be considered a good thing as it prevents aerodynamic stall from fully developing . The effect is also similar to what would happen if the actuators were more powerful and aerodynamic stall did fully develop . It can however be more surprising for the pilot since it may happen before vibrations that normally indicate incipient aerodynamic stall . The condition is self-correcting in that the reduction in pitch causes reduction in G loading and thus reduction of the aerodynamic forces , but the drop in performance can obviously be a problem if it happens too low .
@Lnafziger is correct that absolutely ZERO contact between aircraft flying in formation is acceptable , with Aerial Refueling ( AR ) being the sole exception to this -- but in that case the AR equipment is designed to allow for what 's going on . The problem with contact IS the significant risk of damage to the aircraft involved , so the assumption in " assuming no damage is caused , how much impact ... " is outside of typical experience . IF you could assure no damage , then all sorts of things might be possible , but even pretty stoutly built fighter jets still are n't " bumper cars " and should n't be treated as such . Even if a collision did n't cause an immediate structural failure , the risk of damage to the internal structure of the wing/tail/whatever would be enough that the aircraft would have to be taken apart &amp; xray 'd ( or another non-destructive inspection method ) to ensure that there was n't damage that would later result in structural failure . The one exception to all of this that I can recall was a technique that the RAF used in WW II to defeat the V-1 " buzz bomb " cruise missiles . While the Spitfires could shoot them down , the small size of the missile meant that you had to get so close that you were probably flying through a cloud of debris right after you killed it ( i.e. the warhead would detonate and the shrapnel might bring down the Spitfire as well ) . They discovered that the gyroscopes in the V-1 guidance ( i.e. the primitive autopilot ) would tumble if they were inverted , so some pilots would fly formation with the V-1 then intentionally make contact with its wing with their own , flipping the buzz bomb onto its back . At this point , the autopilot lost its bearings and the V-1 went down into ( presumably ! ) empty countryside , crashing far from its London target . Other than this , formation flight is carefully planned out so as to minimize all risk of contact between the aircraft . Even in the ( very cool ! ) video of the Blue Angels , you can see that there is always space between the wingtips -- more space for the more dynamic maneuvers , with the least space during a fairly brief and reasonably stable pass . Remember , these pilots are extremely good &amp; highly experienced in this sort of formation flying , and while there IS oscillation in pitch &amp; roll , the formation is designed so that this can safely go on . There just is n't much risk there of a force that would move one aircraft directly to the left or right of its position . Turbulence might produce a rolling or pitching motion that could LEAD TO a collision , but the pilots have enough control authority to correct these sorts of forces . That 's why they 're able to do what they do , safely . Fly Navy !
<URL> ( <URL> ) Direct Operating Costs What percentage of a commercial airline 's costs are labor costs ? By labor I believe you mean flight - and cabin-crew , the percentage is roughly 12 % . Can an airline run a low-cost operation without reducing the wages for crew and pilots , or subjecting them to long shifts ? Yes , but they wo n't make money . What Low Cost Carriers do is save in everything by making sure each expenditure runs more efficiently , so they can offer cheap tickets , which in turn enables them to fill all the seats . Examples for saving : Single-type fleet greatly reduces maintenance cost , which is 15 % of an airline 's operating costs . <URL> removes the risk of fuel price hikes , but when oil is cheap , it 's offset by having to pay more .
In theory , it is perfectly legal to do your primary training in a jet . It is becoming common in militaries to do initial training in turboprops . <URL> Managing such a turboprop aircraft is actually simpler than managing your typical piston aircraft . One button start . One lever engine control . Maybe some day that will become a single engine jet .
For the aviation industry , flammability is a major concern , and aviation hydraulic systems require Fluids that can not burn yet do n't create corrosion and still lubricate . <URL> for instance is a phosphate based ester , a nasty substance that irritates the skin , but at least has some flame resistance . Old hydraulic motion systems on simulators used the stuff , later ones went to mineral oils like Shell Tellus . If there is an oil leak in a pressure hose , a fine mist of fluid droplets appears , flammable if mineral oil but this could be handled in a ground facility with extinguishers everywhere . Not a good circumstance in an aviation accident though , and that is why in aircraft the esters have to be used . Vegetable oils are not used for hydraulic systems in the aviation industry at this moment as far as I am aware .
You might be surprised to learn that most refueling tankers hold a relatively small percentage of their total fuselage volume in fuel . The reason why is simple ; a plane stuffed to the gills with fuel would be so grossly overloaded it would n't make it off the runway . Tankers , therefore , can double as medium transports with little modification , as they have a sizable upper deck which is more or less empty space when serving as a tanker , but which can ferry troops , light vehicles or other materiel from Stateside bases to various theaters ( a dedicated heavy transport like the C-5 or C-17 would be used for transporting large units or for specialized troop transport like airbornes ) . Here 's the layout of the KC-135 Stratotanker : To my knowledge , all of this fuel is available both to power the plane and to refuel other aircraft , however the plane would likely draw primarily from the wing tanks for flight , as this is the " standard " configuration for the 707 the KC-135 is built on . Transport of the fuel from these tanks to the refueling systems would be accomplished with an integrated pump and pipe system that could move fuel from anywhere to anywhere . The bulk of the fuel load , as you can see , is contained in four " body tanks " totaling over 144,000 pounds of fuel . For comparison , the F-15E strike fighter can carry a maximum , with CFTs and 3 droptanks , of just 35,550 pounds . These tanks are lined with plastic bladders , which contain the fuel ( so the entire fuselage does n't have to be leak-proof which is much more difficult and expensive to ensure ) and also allows the bladder to collapse as the fuel inside it is depleted , reducing the volume of air in direct contact with the fuel , thus reducing the vapor hazard . AFAIK the wing tanks do not have these bladders , but they 're much smaller spaces overall and more easily accessed . Separating the fuel into multiple tanks has several advantages : The tanker is still serviceable with one or more of the tanks unable to carry fuel ( leak in the bladder , pump failure , etc ) . Sloshing of the fuel in the tanks has less effect on the weight distribution of the aircraft . Imagine trying to take off with a full Olympic swimming pool in your cargo hold ; any pitch up or down will cause several tons of weight to move " downslope " , unbalancing the aircraft ( probably fatally ) . Fuel can be pumped between these tanks to fine-tune or " trim " the aircraft 's weight distribution and handling characteristics , a process known as " tank trimming " which is more aerodynamically efficient than elevator trimming .
An afterburner is a secondary combustion system which burns additional fuel downstream of the combustion chamber , to further increase thrust at the expense of much higher fuel consumption . This is the Pratt &amp; Whitney F100 afterburning turbofan , variants of which power the USAF 's 4th-generation fleet of F-15s and F-16s : <URL> The final spoke-looking thing just beyond the turbine fins , plus all the space between the turbine core and the exhaust nozzle , is the afterburner . In this area , fuel is sprayed directly into the exhaust stream from the turbine core , where the heat from the air leaving the core is enough to ignite it . This additional pressure adds to the thrust produced by the turbine . As I said , though , the tradeoff is increased fuel consumption , sometimes usually dramatically so . The F-16 at full military power and low altitudes burns about 8000 pounds of fuel an hour , which with a full droptank configuration gives it about 2 hours ' flight time . Cruising at higher altitudes , that flight time can be further extended as both the higher altitude and the lower throttle setting ( about 80 % ) reduce fuel flow rate by up to 40 % versus low-altitude flight . In full afterburner at low altitudes , the F-16 can burn in excess of 64,000 pounds an hour . At full throttle , a U.S.-variant F-16 with maximum external fuel stores has about 20 minutes until it 's on emergency reserves ( which would only last an extra minute or so at full afterburner ) . The speed gain is minimal ; the F-16 cruises at between 450-550 knots , while full afterburner only increases that to about 700-800 knots with a typical underwing loadout . So , burning 8 times the fuel , you get around a 50 % speed boost .
You 're correct that there are two ways to connect the tug with an aircraft . In case a tow bar is used , it is fixed laterally at the nose landing gear , while allowing slight movement for height adjustment . Usually , the tow bar may pivot freely laterally and vertically at the end that attaches to the tug rather than the aircraft end , which is fixed . The following image shows the tow bar attachment point in Airbus A380 . <URL> Image from alamy.com . The attachment points differ from aircraft to aircraft , so the tow bar basically operates as an adapter between the aircraft and the tug . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . When using a towbarless tug , the nose wheel is simply scooped off the ground using hydraulic ( for large aircraft ) or electric power . The tug has a movable arm , which is opened and the tug is moved and placed so that the nose wheel fits inside the fixed arms of the tug . The movable arm is then closed . The movable arm and the opposite side has sloping edges , over which the wheels slide and the nose is lifted off as the arm closes due to hydraulic power . This video shows how its done in case of Airbus A380 . Video from Youtube : How to lift up the world 's largest commercial aircraft the Airbus A380 . by user Kasavubu The nose wheel dimensions and aircraft weight do matter and tugs are certified for different ramp weights .
end question
start question
Are any software or aeronautical engineers yet attempting to design pilotless passenger planes ( PPP 'S ) ?
Serious discussion of removing passenger jet pilots ? No . Serious discussion of making pilotless VTOL aircraft ? Yes . <URL> Check out this quote from page 40 : To fast-forward to the safest possible operational state for VTOL vehicles , network operators will be interested in the path that realizes full autonomy as quickly as possible .
Small planes tend to have keys , but not all . The bigger the plane the less likely a key is needed and once you get into jets , I ca n't think of any that need keys for engine starts . The starting and securing of engines with no keys comes down to switches and knobs . Likewise with exterior doors , on smaller planes including private end executive jets , you can find keyed exterior doors and luggage compartments . With transport jets at airlines you wo n't find keys . To secure those doors the jet bridge is pulled away from the airplane so there is no physical access to the boarding door .
My thesis , which I wrote so long ago that I no longer recall the title , was a complete redesign of the Boeing 747 cockpit from a human factors and usability point of view . My designs , which were submitted to Boeing at the time , likely helped create the foundation for the modern glass fly-by-wire cockpit . At the time , glass cockpits did not exist ( the term refers to the glass in the CRT monitors that were eventually used within the cockpit , later replaced by LCD displays ) . Fly-by-wire , which is the concept of replacing conventional flight controls with an electronic interface , was in its infancy . I remember working tirelessly to create a comprehensive new human interface for pilots that would minimize errors and improve safety . My research was based in the cognitive sciences , which consisted of university coursework in human physiology , neuroanatomy ( rudimentary at the time ) , psychology , statistics , engineering , computer science , mathematics , linguistics , neural networks ( the very first ones ) , and artificial intelligence . It was a rigorous and diverse education . I spent hours and hours watching films of pilots performing a vast array of different procedures . Sometimes they were successful , and sometimes they were not . When they were not , it often resulted in serious consequences . I spent long nights listening to hour after hour of dialog between air traffic controllers and pilots . I studied detailed accident and near-accident reports . I also interviewed pilots and spent a fair amount of time inside commercial cockpits , between flights , gathering essential data . One of the challenges that I vividly recall was reducing complexity for pilots , while keeping the tasks difficult enough so they would stay engaged to their tasks and not fall asleep or become distracted . The most rewarding part of developing my thesis was converting the cockpit from what I called a control-based center to a task-based center . Up until that time , most controls available to pilots were designed to directly impact a flight control surface such as the rudder . There were some rudimentary " intelligent " controls to perform basic horizontal and vertical navigation ( but nothing that integrated the two ! ) . I designed a new system that was based on high level tasks that the pilot would need to perform . No longer were ailerons , elevators , flaps , and thrust the focus . Instead , I changed the focus of the cockpit to center on essential tasks such as taking off , landing , route planning , communications , and traffic and weather avoidance . During this work , I learned that I had to seamlessly integrate my human factors engineering and user experience design skills . In my opinion , and from my personal experience , they always need to be . Whenever I fly , I ask to take a look at the cockpit after we land . It 's a joy to see the evolution of my designs . Whether I was the originator of these designs or one of many human factors engineers who came up with them at the same time , I will never know . But similarities of the current designs to what I proposed in my thesis many years ago gives me a little insight into a possible answer to that question .
The safe operations of an aircraft is called <URL> . It is the standard by which an aircraft is determined fit to fly . Responsibility of airworthiness lies with national aviation regulatory bodies , manufacturers , as well as owners and operators . International standards are dictated by <URL> during the <URL> : The International Civil Aviation Organization sets international standards and recommended practices for national authorities to base their regulations on FAA has <URL> governing all aviation activities in the US . EASA also has airworthiness <URL> . The answer to your question is : The aircraft manufacturer makes sure that the aircraft meets existing design standards , defines the operating limitations and maintenance schedules and provides support and maintenance throughout the operational life of the aircraft .
Visalia , CA ( KVIS ) is an uncontrolled airport with a Class E surface area and an ILS with 200 ' minimums .
To go along with @ratchet freak 's answer , machine parsing comes more into play when reporting maintenance status and readiness statistics , and for trend analysis - in other words , high-level aggregation and dissection of user-inputted data . At this level , managers are more concerned with the number of aircraft available for use rather than the last time a particular aircraft 's tires were <URL> changed . Typically , this is all done using pricy electronic logbook software , and would be used by large organizations with lots of equipment to track and the money to employ such a system . Take , for example , the United States Army . Its program of record for aviation maintenance and logistics is called Unit Level Logistics System-Aviation , or ULLS-A for short . This software suite automates a lot of the manual forms that the Army uses . At the most basic level , aircraft maintenance is recorded using DA Form 2408-13-1 , according to <URL> . The time and date of each status is compiled into a daily statistic , which is then rolled up into a monthly report , often only detailing ( aside from the hours that aircraft was available for mission ) what subsystem was responsible for the majority of each aircraft 's downtime . Here 's what a blank maintenance form looks like : As you can see , there are a multitude of blocks , each with its own list of codes . For instance , here is a list of the codes for WHEN DISC ( when discovered ) , from <URL> of DA Pam 738-751 : However , not all blocks are required to be filled out when using paper logbooks ( believe it or not , still in use in some places ) ; in addition to WHEN DISC , HOW REC , MAL EFF , WUC , ACTION CODE , and CAT are optional entries , and in practice never get used . In contrast , these are required fields in ULLS-A , and so the system provides a number of helps to the user so he does n't have to refer to the manual all the time . Overall , only these codes ( and not the free text fault/remarks block ) will be machine-parsed , for the purpose of high-level analysis to determine trends and/or systemic issues affecting the entire fleet .
You will likely not see a price cut , but you also might not see a price increase . Seat pricing ( along with just about any other service in a competitive market ) is a complex function of actual cost to the company + desired profit + market factor . The last one is the difference between what they want to get and what the market is willing to pay . It is sometimes negative .
does a worker go to an airport and monitors all information , and choose what kind of approach/departure ( for example ) will be ? Or do airport workers advise regulators ( charts creators ) ? Yes . :) Airport/airspace procedures are mainly created by a country 's local aviation authority , so if you want an instrument approach to your private airstrip in the US you would contact <URL> , probably through someone at your local FSDO , and ask them to work with you to develop the procedure . The Procedures people will survey the approach and design a procedure that makes sure you wo n't hit anything on the ground , and ensure that your procedure wo n't conflict with other existing procedures . Once the procedure is designed they 'll test-fly it - that 's done <URL> - and if everything checks out they 'll publish charts for it . Once published the FAA will periodically re-evaluate then procedure , both through flight checks and other feedback ( if your new procedure is generating a lot of noise complaints for example the FAA will work with you to reduce the impact ) .
<URL> Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations ( 14 CFR ) part 61 does not require specific pilot training and authorization to operate skiplanes ; however , it is important to train with a qualified skiplane flight instructor . Since most skiplanes operate in a wide variety of conditions , such as landing on frozen or snow-covered lakes and sloping glaciers , with varying qualities of snow , it is important to know how performance is affected . Use the performance data provided by the manufacturer . From looking at 14 CFR part 61 , <URL> lists the different ratings . While it differentiates sea and land , there is no " ski " category .
Mapping starts with basemaps , with topos ( DEMs or digital elevation models ) and geographic features . Then cultural overlays are added . The charts in US utilize a national spatial reference system . Today this is done with GIS/Mapping software . Then overlays for aviation data , such as man made obstructions , and air navigation data is added . The ( old ) process has been the topic of many articles in pilot journals . The newer process is rapidly evolving , as the government transitions to AWS / cloud based applications . To address your questions , the DEMs may have been created with RADAR and integrated with topo data , but today LIDAR is the norm . LIDAR data helps with man made structures as well , while not as good as SAR RADAR , it can still show catenary and power line structures . Those metallic structures show up very well in SAR due to their conductivity .
The wingtips are a unique part of the aircraft in that they really have one job ; minimize drag . Their design is easy to see , and they are a fairly recent addition to transport aircraft . Developments continue to be made in the study of aerodynamics , with modern computing power and methods allowing much better modeling of flow patterns to evaluate designs , and improvements in materials allowing more complex designs to be built . The key is that the winglet must be properly designed . As wing designs change , the flow over the wings changes , and new winglet designs are invented . Since it is heavily dependent on the specific application , it 's more relevant to look at the evolution of the designs on different aircraft . The design chosen is dependent on the technology available at the time , both for evaluating the design and building it , the design of the wing , intended use of the aircraft , and the previous experience of the manufacturer . The 737 is an old design that has evolved over time : Original/Classic : none , NG : winglet , P-8 : raked tip , MAX : split scimitar The A330 is a fairly new design : Current : small winglet , neo : winglet The 747 has also evolved over time , and the latest version shares technology with the 787 : Original : none , -400 : small winglet , -8 : raked tip The A320 has also evolved over time : Original : none , Current : tip fence , neo : winglet The A380 is a new design : tip fence The A350 is a new design : winglet The 787 is a new design : raked tip The 777 is a fairly new design : Basic : none , -200 LR and -300 ER : raked tips You will notice a trend from smaller designs to larger ones . On larger aircraft though , the weight of a large winglet and the loads it produces can get too large . New designs like the 777 , A380 , 787 , and 747-8 all use either raked tips or small winglets . As for other parts of aircraft , engines are changing more than you think . The jet engines on the early jet transports look very different from modern high-bypass turbofans . The GEnx engines on the 787 and 747-8 have chevrons at the back to reduce noise . All you see on the outside is the nacelle that minimizes drag ; most of the changes go on inside . Also , if you look closely at the front , fan blades on newer engines have curves in them instead of having straight edges . Most other parts of the aircraft have more complex jobs , not primarily external . A fuselage should be efficient at carrying things inside but also keep drag low . If you look closely you will notice that new planes like the 787 and A350 have a lot in common with previous fuselages , but they are shaped differently as well . It 's harder to see the other drastic changes like the use of composites in place of traditional aluminum , electric systems instead of hydraulic or bleed air , fly by wire , etc. . Control surfaces must provide sufficient control while minimizing drag . The size and shape has also changed over time , though the general design has remained .
So I 'm assuming mail does not go in civilian aircraft . Like many thing in aviation it depends . For shipping it will depend on where you are shipping to and from , how big the item is and the chose method of shipment . Both <URL> and <URL> ( who are private shipping carriers ) operate large fleets of cargo airplanes . In many cases a shipment may end up on one of their own cargo planes . However their planes , like passenger planes run routes that may be pre-decided . As such passenger airlines sell the leftover cargo space to anyone willing to buy it . <URL> UPS/FedEx may pre-broker a deal to buy a certain amount of cargo space per year from an airline to obtain a better rate or they may buy it on demand as needed . Now Air Mail is a bit different as its <URL> postal service . Technically the USPS no longer offer airmail service as it was once called but does still offer domestic and foreign guaranteed time shipping . All of these items are moved in <URL> or by under contract by FedEx as the USPS no longer operates any aircraft . Am I right , and if so , what 's the reason for that ? It seems it would be extremely more efficient at least for small shipments . Like most things in aviation low cost will always beat out marginal efficiency . If FedEx can ship a package at a significantly reduced rate but in turn it will take an extra day or two to arrive than many customers will see a value add in that . In the same vein it would be very efficient to fly every passenger in a small plane to an airport closer to their final destination and have the plane depart when the passenger needs to , however the cost of that simply would never work out .
<URL> which is mostly about licensing . However X-Plane also has an <URL> is legal for certain training/instructional hours . You can find more info on the FAA 's approved simulators <URL> and <URL> . The flight school I trained at had a certified sim from the 80 's that was pretty miserable by todays standards . It was certified and had no screen , I would say it was " custom built " FWIW . Many airlines may turn back to the manufacturer for recurrent training . Both <URL> and <URL> run facilities with full motion simulators . I would think they built the software in-house but I do n't have any hard evidence on that . As the OEM builder they have access to genuine interior parts to build the sims . For smaller aircraft places like <URL> in full motion sims but <URL> SIMCOM uses actual aircraft interiors ( most likely from defunct airframes ) for their sims . <URL>
<URL> Using two counter-rotating props does indeed eliminate torque issues . The co-axial configuration has been around for a while , like the successful <URL> . The thrust , power and propeller disk issues are a bit complicated , let 's start with a qualitative discussion . Two 2-blade co-axial rotors compared with a single 4-blade rotor of the same size . To generate a given thrust , two counter-rotating 2-bladed propellers use less power than a single 4-bladed propeller of the same size - if they are mounted far enough away from each other . Separating the two propellers helps in reducing power : the closer together they are , the less the power advantage . Separate them 20 % of the rotor radius , and you still have a 7 % power advantage over a single 4-blade propeller , as computed by Kamov <URL> . Further away results in less power required . Note that the 7 % power advantage may not account for losses from the dual gearing trains required . Co-axial 2-bladed propeller compared with two 2-bladed separate propellers of the same size . Momentum theory predicts a power penalty of $ \ sqrt { 2 } $ = 41 % when two rotors are placed co-axially without separation , compared with the two identical rotors being operated in isolation . Test results have indicated that that is an overestimation : 20 % is more realistic . We 're limited to commercially available sizes and pitches and are using fixed pitch . That means that we can not optimise for the exact circumstances . My recommendations for the design process would be as follows : From your link I see that there are 40 " and 49 " blades available . Go for the 40 " props . Your link gives an output RPM of 3500 . With a 40 " prop , the tip speed becomes ( 3500 RPM * $ 2 \ pi $ rad * 0.5 m / 60 sec ) = 183.3 m/s , about Mach 0.55 . Forward velocity is around 20 m/s . The velocity triangle at the tip has an angle of tan $ ^ { -1 } $ 20/183 = 6.2 ° A typical symmetrical profile such as NACA 0012 has a maximum L/D at angle of attack = 4 ° at M = 0.6 ( <URL> ) . <URL> Add this to the velocity triangle and you end up with a blade tip angle of 10 ° . That equates to a blade pitch of 22 inch for the forward propeller . Select the standard pitch closest to 22 inch ( 24 " ? ) . The next one up to 22 " should be the best choice , because the aft propeller will be pulling in air and add to the free stream velocity . The aft propeller runs the accelerated air from the forward propeller and must have a higher blade pitch than the forward propeller . Select the next available pitch up ( 28 " ? ) . Naturally , one propeller must be clockwise and one must be counter-clockwise . Both propellers should be 2-bladed . That will result in four blades in total , more than enough for this application . Adding more blades will cost horsepower and not result in any useful thrust increase . For the thrust per propeller , if I compute that from a $ C_L $ of 0.55 and integrate that over the blade radius from 5 cm to 48 cm ( to account for tip losses ) , I get : $ $ T = C_L \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ int _ { 0.05 } ^ { 0.48 } \ omega \ cdot r \ cdot dr $ $ $ $ = C_L \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ frac { \ omega ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot ( 0.48 ^ 2 - 0.05 ^ 2 ) $ $ $ $ = 0.55 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 0.05 \ cdot \ frac { 366 ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot ( 0.2304 - 0.0025 ) $ $ With $ C_L $ = 0.55 $ \ rho $ = 1.225 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ at sea level A = blade area is about 0.05 m $ ^ 2 $ $ \ omega $ = 3500 * 2 $ \ pi $ / 60 = 366 rad/sec = 514 N per propeller . Note that there are assumptions on propeller profile and blade area in there . $ \ alpha $ may not be exactly 4 ° so lets take a 10 % lower value of 450N per propeller = 900 N total . Power required to generate this thrust is the blade profile power plus the induced power from thrust generation . When I look up the $ C_T $ and $ C_P $ factors of the propeller disks , I get a $ C_P $ of 0.001 , resulting in a power P of $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A _ { disk } \ cdot { V _ { tip } } ^ 3 = 0.001 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 0.785 \ cdot 183 ^ 3 = 5.9 kW $ $ So for two propellers with a penalty of 20 % , that would be 14.4 kW = about 20 hp . There are some estimates in here and all depends on the pitch size and if my assumptions of blade profile and blade area are correct , but it seems to be in the ballpark . The product would need to be tested for actual thrust and power consumption of course . If your counter-rotating setup and gearing works , the main selling points would be absence of torque and a low tip speed resulting in low noise . Update Some of the comments are on using larger propellers and one 3-bladed and a 2-bladed , and there is a question on using a spreadsheet for single propellers . The single propeller spreadsheet may be a compilation of experience on using one single propeller . However , you will be driving two propellers . A main selling point for your set-up is elimination of torque . Use one 3-bladed and one 2-bladed propeller , and the difference in drag will re-introduce torque . You have 4 blades in total already , no need to add a 5th or more for any purpose . A larger propeller uses more horsepower than a smaller propeller , and you ' re
I have already found answer for my problem . ACES and FACET from NASA Aviation System Division solve my problem . It should handle all statistical data , it has statistical output as well and it could also handle meteorological data . Currently this SW use FAA and some airline companies to modelate ATM concepts ( aviationsystemsdivision.arc.nasa.gov ) . Thanks for all your help !
First of all : There is not one single speed on many aircraft engines . Big propeller engines have a reduction gearbox so the propeller runs at a lower speed than the core engine , and multi-spool turbines have an inner , high-pressure section with higher rotational speeds than the outer , low-pressure parts of both the compressor and the turbine . Take the <URL> turboprop for example : It has three spools and a reduction gear , so its components run at four different speeds . Generally : The bigger the diameter , the lower the typical speed . Fan and propeller blades should run at a high dynamic pressure , but still at subsonic speeds to avoid the higher losses involved with supersonic flow . Since the tip will be the part with the highest speed , and propellers have bigger diameters than fans , propellers run at lower speeds . Also , their bigger diameter makes <URL> . The more air mass is involved in thrust creation , the higher the propulsive efficiency will be . Propellers on slow-flying electric or human-powered airplanes run at only hundreds of RPM , well below speeds where their tips would approach Mach 1 , in order to convert as much of the limited power to thrust as possible . If flow speed allows , core engine parts run at the highest RPM possible , because the faster a turbine or a piston engine runs , the more power it will produce for a given size . Therefore , core engines of the same size run at the same speed , regardless of their type , their bypass ratios or their use . Only stationary gas turbines for power generation might run a bit slower than their aircraft-mounted siblings to increase their life . The high pressure compressor and turbines of an airliner engine will run at above ten thousand RPM , while the propeller of a large turboprop engine wants to run at about 1800 to 2200 RPM . Both the fan and the propeller are powered by separate low pressure turbines . The fan and low-pressure compressor of a big airliner engine run at between 2500 and 4000 RPM , and the turbine of the <URL> , a classical turboprop engine , at 30.000 RPM . Since power is torque times RPM , a faster running shaft will be lighter than one running at low speed , so the speed is only reduced directly at the propeller mount . A fan 's optimum speed is between that of the compressor and the propeller and would <URL> , but here the transmitted power is so high that a compact gearbox will be hard to design . Even if it runs at 98 % efficiency , it will produce waste heat <URL> in case of a big airliner engine . Some small engines with just a single turbine use gearboxes already ( e.g. the <URL> ) , and now the next generation of <URL> are also introducing gearboxes . But so far , most engine designs have preferred to run the fan faster than what would be ideal . Note that the tip speed of a modern , ungeared fan is already well above Mach 1 .
There are quite a few 727 that actually had nose wheel braking , however they utilized it only for maximum braking power . ( Also they were proven to be ineffective and unreliable , so a service bulletin was written to remove the system ) . Saab Gripens use nose wheel brakes to stop as well , the main gear sits farther aft than most planes , so there is quite a bit of weight on the nose gear , which makes it effective for stopping .
If the power suddenly disappears to any aircraft ( ie , a total electrical failure including the batteries ) , then all the aircraft systems will be failed regardless of whether or not they were glass . This is highly unlikely because there are several power generation backups that would have to fail , including the batteries themselves , before this ever became a reality . Unfortunately though , if the aircraft only has electrically controlled , hydraulically actuated control surfaces ( fly-by-wire ) , vice actual mechanical linkages ( or backup controls ) , then a total electrical failure would be 100 % fatal if power can not be restored . The control surfaces would not be movable . However , more to the question regarding software bugs , all primary flight instruments are backed up to prevent such disasters from happening . I have personally lost all the digital displays in my cockpit and flown a no-gyro , surveillance approach in bad weather using nothing but a peanut gyro . Its possible , but definitely not a good time . Anything is possible . However , even though the odds of a total electrical failure , or complete loss of instrumentation ( including backups ) is nominally greater than 0 % , the statistical probably can still probably be rounded to 0 .
The short answer is no , beyond the need for an aircraft to satisfy the <URL> set by the FAA and other regulators . There must also be room for an approved seat cushion and seatbelts . So there is a point where a lack of legroom would impede evacuation to the extent that an aircraft could n't pass the <URL> , but there 's generally no specific minimum legroom requirement . The main exception is in the UK , which does have a form of <URL> ( according to that link , the UK is the only country with one ) . The requirement is given as a different form of measurement from how airline seat pitch is normally defined , but the above link indicates that it basically translates to a 28-inch seat pitch . That 's about as <URL> , namely Spirit in the US . Most airlines draw the line at 30 " , with a few low cost carriers doing 29 "
From all that I have seen on that type of aircraft , there is merely a filter . If one was operating in a dusty environment ( eg the bush ) then I would add those to a 100 hour check . But honestly , I have never seen one clogged to the point it would not work . They are not suspectable to icing as there is a low pressure drop across them , and they get their air from inside the cabin , where there is not a cold mist . It 's usually rather dry and at low temperatures , it is probably heated . The alternate air is for the static port , which is exterior , and will ice up , although it is a rather infrequent occurrence . The altimeter , airspeed and VSI are not gyro instruments , and are impacted by the static port . Keep in mind that if your altimeter is not reading correctly because of static port ice , then most likely your encoding altimeter is similarly off , and your mode C ( or other ) readout at ATC will be off . In my experience , the Cessna models you listed tend to ice less than the PA28 models , but again , it is rare , even for weather flyers . And if it is happening to you , you need to reexamine your weather choices . While we are talking blockages , the pitot tube is the most frequent , and there have been times that I have had to remove a bug from the tube on the Cessnas . Let a mechanic do it the first time , so that you get some of the tricks . I usually use a straightened paper clip or a piece of safety wire , with a sharp hook , about 0.3 mm bent in it . That will help you scoop out the bug . Again , this does n't happen often , as usually we have covers on pitot tubes , but I have had it happen in remote areas ( like Central American hilltop unimproved airports ) so if you are flying to those places you need to make friends with your mechanic so that you can manage the lots of different things that come up . In summary , the vacuum gyros have a filter , and they do n't tend to clog often . Some of them are rather coarse , but modern ones have 10 micron filters or better . If you are in an extremely dusty area , they should be periodically inspected . For most people , they will never have a problem with them . ( If you have that much dust in the cockpit , then you will have other problems , including avionics switches , dirt creeping into displays , etc. )
end question
start question
Could you encode data in a Black Box ping ?
Current underwater locator beacons ( ULBs ) have a detection range of only a few km . 16 km would be under exceptionally favourable conditions . So in most cases the GPS data would not be of any additional help . It might tell you where the aircraft was before it hit the water , not exactly where the debris ended up after falling through several Km of water . An advantage of current ULBs is their extreme simplicity and small size . There 's no need for external data-feed and power connections . There are no issues of openings in the casing for waterproof connectors that also need to withstand the g-forces and pressures expected to be endured by a ULB . They are easy to test regularly and relatively easy to maintain . From what I have read , current proposals for improvements to ULBs mostly focus on increase duration from 30 days to 90 days increase range by <URL> from 37.5 kHz to ~ 10KHz There are trade-offs here - longer duration means bigger batteries . changing the frequency may make it harder to distinguish from other sources of sound in the ocean . An interesting <URL> describes the difficulties involved and discusses modulating the beacon signal to include data .
No , there 's no way an airliner can glide 1000km , this is because its wing is designed for fast cruising speeds , and it 's much heavier compared to the lift generated than a glider . Gliders are light and have huge wings for their weight , which means they can get lifted by powerful air currents . An airliner is not going to be able to do that . The longest glide of an airliner I know of was <URL> , which glided about 98 miles ( almost 160km ) from cruising altitude to the Azores after it ran out of fuel . The captain was an experience glider pilot . That is really about the limit . Keep in mind that there 's nothing ordinary about 1000km in a glider ! 1000km is a very long distance and you 'd need a very good glider and a very experienced pilot in just the right conditions .
Current underwater locator beacons ( ULBs ) have a detection range of only a few km . 16 km would be under exceptionally favourable conditions . So in most cases the GPS data would not be of any additional help . It might tell you where the aircraft was before it hit the water , not exactly where the debris ended up after falling through several Km of water . An advantage of current ULBs is their extreme simplicity and small size . There 's no need for external data-feed and power connections . There are no issues of openings in the casing for waterproof connectors that also need to withstand the g-forces and pressures expected to be endured by a ULB . They are easy to test regularly and relatively easy to maintain . From what I have read , current proposals for improvements to ULBs mostly focus on increase duration from 30 days to 90 days increase range by <URL> from 37.5 kHz to ~ 10KHz There are trade-offs here - longer duration means bigger batteries . changing the frequency may make it harder to distinguish from other sources of sound in the ocean . An interesting <URL> describes the difficulties involved and discusses modulating the beacon signal to include data .
Short answer Quick access recorders ( QAR ) , which are not aimed to be used for investigations , are getting into aircraft . They allow flight data to be collected and analyzed in different ways , including overall improvement of security and efficiency . QAR are used in place of FDR because being not dedicated to security and accident investigations they do n't have the same use and disclosure restrictions ( which are detailed below ) . Details There are two recorders that are mandatory on board commercial aircraft : CVR for voice , and FDR for data . They are designed to survive an accident and include an ultrasonic beacon to facilitate locating them underwater . It 's worth mentioning that CVR and FDR are not connected to any external data port for data export/copy/extraction , and extraction of the recorders after an accident is done exclusively by the investigating agency . See more about privacy protection at the end of the post . Cockpit voice recorder ( CVR ) The CVR is a sensitive question . Crews have accepted the recording of cockpit conversations to help understand accidents . One condition is the conversations remain private in other circumstances . So there is definitely no other allowed use of the CVR . Flight data recorder ( FDR ) Certain technical parameters , like inputs on the flight controls , must be recorded , also to help determine the cause of an accident . Most FDRs record many more parameters than mandatory . Still the FDR can not be used in other circumstances than an investigation . Using in-flight data for improvement Still technical parameters values do n't disclose personal opinions , FDR data causes less privacy concerns than CVR conversations . Safety agencies over the world have encouraged airlines and manufacturers to set up improvement programs ( quality improvement ) taking into account in-flight technical parameters . <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> include : Flight operations quality assurance , FOQA . See FAA <URL> . Flight data monitoring , FDM . See Swiss <URL> . FDM allows companies to : Compare their flight standards ( <URL> ) and the crews ' actual actions . This is a way to enforce SOPs , and detect deviations from SOPs , hence crews may be reluctant to see this becoming mandatory . Detect excessive forces applied to the aircraft , that require maintenance checks and/or repairs . Set fuel consumption improvement actions . As the FDR data can not be exported , new recorders used for data monitoring and analysis are now seen on aircraft . Quick access recorders ( QAR ) QAR use the same data acquisition unit ( <URL> ) as the FDR , using <URL> links . They are essentially duplicating and extending the mandatory FDR , but data can be read at any time using data links , either wired or wireless connections . This access is not limited to investigation purposes . Optical quick access recorders ( OQAR ) are QARs storing data on <URL> ( e.g. <URL> ) , and they can record up to weeks or months of flight data . On the other hand , very small " micro " QARs exist too . This well known one uses a <URL> card : <URL> ( <URL> ) Countries like India have mandated flight data monitoring and analysis using such devices , but most regulation bodies have taken into account the reluctance of crews regarding the spreading of sensitive data , and the programs remain subject to airline decision . Privacy aspects of CVR and FDR data This section is likely very incomplete as the topic is complex . ICAO : Investigation-related recommendations are described in Annex 13 to the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation : <URL> . Non-disclosure of records . 5.12 The State conducting the investigation [ ... ] shall not make the following records available for purposes other than accident or incident investigation , unless the appropriate authority for the administration of justice in that State [ ... ] : [ ... ] b ) all communications between persons having been involved in the operation of the aircraft ; [ ... ] d ) cockpit voice recordings and transcripts from such recordings ; 5.12.1 These records shall be included in the final report [ ... ] only when pertinent to the analysis of the accident or incident . Parts of the records not relevant to the analysis shall not be disclosed . Flight recorder cover both voice and data : Flight recorder . Any type of recorder installed in the aircraft for the purpose of complementing accident/incident investigation . However only CVR is mentioned in the article above , so there is some ambiguity about using FDR data . The point about privacy is that if the information is disclosed , then the safety agencies may not be trusted in the future , information may not be provided , and security may suffer from this lack of information . CVR in the US : A CVR committee usually consisting of members from the NTSB , FAA , operator of the aircraft , manufacturer of the airplane , manufacturer of the engines , and the pilots union , is formed to listen to the recording . This committee creates a written transcript of the CVR audio to be used
I had this happen to me on my first license . I got in touch with the FAA Examiner and he had me contact the local Flight Standards Office ( FSDO ) who corrected it for me . If it was a mistake on the application , your Certifying Officer ( read : FAA Examainer ) can allow you to edit the information through IACRA ( <URL> ) and the license re-issued . If all of the information was correct , but it was misprinted , you would want to call your local FSDO . FSDO Search : <URL> Your local FSDO can help you with : Low-flying aircraft Accident Reporting Air carrier certification and operations Aircraft maintenance Aircraft operational issues Aircraft permits Airmen certification ( licensing ) for pilots , mechanics , repairmen , dispatchers , and parachute riggers Certification and modification issues Enforcement of Airmen &amp; Aircraft Regulations
Why not ? There have been <URL> of near-sonic and even <URL> dashes by the Boeing 747 , and the damage to the <URL> elevator was done by landing gear doors which ripped off when the main gear was extended and its doors hit the elevator . There have been a few unintentional supersonic dives , and in those cases the actions taken by the crew to decelerate caused damage to the aircraft . <URL> , a Boeing 727 which rolled into a dive , and China Airlines Flight 006 overstressed the airframe , but both aircraft returned to service after repairs . IAI experience tells me it needs a dive with a nose-down angle of 18 ° to get a Boeing 747 to Mach 0.98 . Since almost all surfaces experience already supersonic flow at this speed , going the step to Mach 1.01 would need not much more , maybe 25 ° . Pulling up from such a dive by means of the stabilizer should entirely be possible without exceeding g limits .
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
There is no general answer , but the closest one would be bad luck . In the DC-10-10 , the aircraft of <URL> , all three hydraulic lines went through one hole in the tail bulkhead which was damaged when the engine failed . This is no real redundancy , and it was bad luck that this particular spot had been hit . In the <URL> , the same accident would had damaged probably just one line . There , the three hydraulic lines are separated as much as possible in the tail section ( one on top , one on the left side and one of the right side of the fuselage ) . Lockheed has more experience with military design than Douglas , so the Lockheed engineers were more aware of redundancy issues . In the A300 involved in the <URL> , the same bad luck happened . Normally , each aileron is powered by two out of three hydraulic circuits , so one would remain if the other two are hit . Note that the green and yellow circuits were lost immediately , while the blue circuit failed only <URL> . But in this case the damage extended to the spoilers , so all three circuits were affected in the end . There is only so much damage you can protect against . Also for <URL> the damage was just too extensive to not involve all four hydraulic circuits . The rear pressure bulkhead burst and blew most of the vertical tail surface away . It can be argued that the real culprit , however , was the chief pilot 's refusal to don his oxygen mask . But the aircraft was only marginally stable and <URL> . Hydraulic fluid needs to be pumped continuously to heat it so its viscosity stays low . If you add shutoff valves , this pumping could be impeded . Note that the spoilers of the Bagdad A300 were not sucked open because non-return valves blocked the lines to the spoilers , helping in keeping the aircraft flyable . If you put shutoff valves along the hydraulic lines , you open up a new avenue for failures . The idea of hydraulics is that you use just one pump and can create the maximum force at any point , since rarely would you need to move several actuators at maximum load in parallel . Splitting up the circuitry to enable the pilot to isolate parts of the airplane will take away this advantage , resulting in a more complex , heavier hydraulic system . And who knows if those added parts would not malfunction or be mishandled , resulting in a new class of entirely avoidable accidents .
For the Boeing 727 that you see there , that whole procedure is impossible with a pickup truck . Given that the 727 is operating at its Operating Empty Weight , 102,900 lb <URL> for the 727-200 advanced , and the force on the nose gear is somewhere around 10 % at rest , that would put it way over the limit for that particular truck model ( Nissan Frontier at 4,690 to 5,816 lbs <URL> ) . That would be even less pretty for the truck since the force at touchdown on the nosegear should be higher . Also , according to <URL> , the maximum speed for that truck is about 95 mph . Assuming that <URL> is correct , the landing speed of a 727 is 130 to 150 knots ( 150 to 170 mph ) . This is way greater than the speed of any pickup truck . I had to make a response like this some time ago as well to the exact same video someone had a question about . However , you could <URL> if you had the right equipment . Nitpick on the video : if the plane 's nose gear did n't deploy all the way , then truck or no truck , it should have collapsed on impact .
The first scheduled trans-atlantic air service was made possible with <URL> . The LZ-127 started flying the route in 1931 , mostly to <URL> , or Pernambuco in Brazil , but was disassembled in 1940 . The first airliner which was able to cover the distance ( back then it was Berlin - New York ) was the <URL> , which in 1938 needed almost 25 hours East-West and 20 hours on the return leg . With its slow cruise speed , wind made a lot of difference . Sadly , the US did not allow Lufthansa to start the scheduled service it had planned to open in 1939 . Lufthansa had opened regular air mail services in 1934 between Europe and South America using flying boats and a relay ship in the middle of the Atlantic . Air France added its transatlantic mail service flying from Africa to South America and back . The first heavier-than-air transatlantic passenger service opened between New York and Marseille in 1939 on <URL> operated by Pan Am . It crossed the Atlantic between Foynes , Ireland and Botwood , Newfoundland . A British service , also using flying boats , was in preparation but stopped by the beginning of WW II . In the 1950s , there were already several options for transatlantic air travel , but none of them non-stop from Chicago : Pan Am , TWA , Trans Canada Airlines ( TCA ) , BOAC ( successor of Imperial Airways ) , and Air France all operated large propeller aircraft which covered the distance with refueling steps , typically in Gander ( Newfoundland ) and Shannon ( Ireland ) . Typical aircraft were the <URL> and <URL> , and the <URL> , but also the French <URL> flying boat was used until 1955 . Of these airlines , only <URL> in 1957 , before the first international terminal opened there in the following year . Still , the prevailing eastward wind made the East-West crossing hard and required airlines to reduce payload , and only the advent of faster airliners like the <URL> ( from 1956 ) and the <URL> ( from 1957 ) made the transatlantic services more reliable and economical . Beginning with the DC-7C , their range was sufficient to support transatlantic service directly from Chicago O'Hare . In October 1958 the first transatlantic jet airliner service was opened by <URL> using the <URL> , followed shortly after by Pan Am , operating the <URL> and connecting London with New York ( with an occasional refueling stop at Gander on westbound flights ) . O'Hare could only participate in this progress after its main runway was extended to <URL> . Therefore , the most likely airplanes to fly transatlantic directly from O'Hare would have been the DC-7C ( but <URL> , not TWA ) , the <URL> and the L-1649 , which both were operated by TWA . For the flying time , the <URL> took 14 1/4 hours with the DC-7C and 14.83 hours with the Lockheed 1649 . So it is fair to assume a flying time of 15 1/2 to 16 hours for the slightly longer distance between Heathrow and O'Hare . Quote from <URL> : In January 1958 Pan American scheduled the DC-7C from Orly to Idlewild in 14 hr 15 min ; TWA scheduled the 1649 in 14 hr 50 min .
Most of the items you can bring with you to maximize your chances of surviving an in-flight emergency are items you 're not going to be allowed to bring with you . About the only things I could recommend bringing along on a commercial flight are your cellphone and a personal locator beacon ( PLB ) of some kind , but frankly if your airliner goes down ATC is going to know where you were when they lost contact , ( and the plane has an <URL> already ) . You should also wear sensible clothing -- natural fibers like wool or cotton are the order of the day if in-flight fire is a concern . Polyester or other synthetic fabrics will melt to your skin and cause you to have a Bad Time . More directly addressing your question though , the items that spring immediately to my mind ( and why you probably wo n't be taking them with you ) are : A parachute ( what prompted your question ) Sure , you can bring your parachute . It 's kind of a useless security blanket though . From cruise flight you 'd basically be executing a high-altitude jump <URL> . You would require oxygen to remain conscious longer than about 30-45 seconds ( though an automatic-opening chute may save you here ) , as well as protective clothing to survive the low temperatures while you 're free-falling . Those concerns aside , remember that airliner cabins are pressurized and the doors are typically " plug doors " that open inward . No human is strong enough to open that door with the cabin pressurized , and if you 've lost cabin pressure for some reason you 're better off putting on that little drop-down oxygen mask like the nice flight attendant told you to in the safety briefing . You 're not going to save yourself if you pass out from hypoxia while putting on your chute and trying to get to the door . An oxygen mask / smoke hood can be useful in a fire . Most airlines are not going to let you carry an oxygen cylinder onto the plane ( as others pointed out in comments , oxygen and in-flight fires can cause more problems than it solves ) . That holds true for pretty much any kind of compressed gas because really , how do they know what 's in that tank ? A smoke hood using a filter ( or a sealed rebreather hood ) with no compressed air supply may make it past security , but ask yourself honestly : " Am I proficient enough to use an emergency escape smoke hood in an in-flight emergency ? " -- If you ca n't answer " yes " you 're probably putting yourself ( and others ) in more danger wasting time donning the hood versus just getting out of the aircraft . A life vest ( if traveling over water ) This is overkill on an airliner ( though those of us that fly little planes should seriously consider flotation devices when flying over water ) . Your airline seat cushion really CAN be used as a flotation device . Those big yellow slides also detach from the plane and make marvelous floats . Frankly if you need any of these items you 're in a situation where having your own Mae West is n't going to really enhance your chances of survival . A utility knife capable of cutting your seatbelt This is incredibly useful for a bunch of reasons , not just cutting your way out of your seatbelt . In fact I keep one in my plane . Sharp and/or pointy things make airport security nervous though - if you try to take such an item on an airline flight it will likely be taken away from you before you get anywhere near the plane . Food and Water Useful if you have to make an emergency landing in a remote area , but frankly airliners already have beverages ( some may even still have food ) . If you 're carrying a light snack you 're as set as you 're going to be in this department . Emergency Blankets Nice to have , but most commercial aircraft already have shock blankets on board ( and much like food/water , this is really only useful if you have an otherwise uneventful landing in a remote area ) . If it makes you feel better to have your own blanket you can get pre-packed ones that can fit in basically any carry-on for about $ 5-10 . Signal flares Again , mainly useful if you have an emergency landing in a remote area ( and your PLB and the plane 's ELT do n't work for some reason ) . Flares are good both for signaling rescuers and for starting fires to keep warm . I do n't know if rescue flares are still routinely carried on commercial airliners , but I can say with reasonable certainty that you will not be allowed to carry on your own . They do n't let you smoke on most airlines these days - they 're certainly not going to let you carry on a self-igniting flare !
GdD brings up some good points but that really depends on what you mean by " home simulator " and it depends on the airplane . There are some people that <URL> and built simulators that are fairly close to real and provide a solid learning platform not only for the flying but the actual physical operation of the controls . You can fairly easily build a <URL> that has all the controls and instruments you would see in a real plane and even in emergency situations you will see real warning lights in your sim and be able to mitigate it as you would in a real plane ( nothing is stopping you from wiring in a smoke machine either ) . As for the flight dynamics they get more real as time goes on and computers get better and better . <URL> and simulate the <URL> I fly in real life which I find to be pretty close to the real thing from a flight dynamics/response stand point . My simulator did a great deal for my cross wind proficiency when I was training . I cant say I learned to fly in the sim but I did a great deal of honing of my skills in my home sim . The sim is a tool not a replacement If you understand this you will better be able to realize that the sim can provide you a great deal of proficiency and can suffice for training in some ( not all ) cases . Even the <URL> . The FAA even considers <URL> Unless you have a full motion sim at home , the sim wont provide you with the feeling of flying which is very hard to replicate . It wont disorient you in IMC by having G-Forces cause your vestibular sense to distrust the instruments . It wont physically throw you around on a bad cross wind landing with wind sheer causing your knee to bump the yoke . It wont shake you to the point you drop your iPad while briefing an approach plate . It wont spin you until your lunch decides it wants to be elsewhere . These are the kinds of experiences you may only find in a real plane ... One last thing to consider as well is some what of the reverse case . Aircraft cockpits are actually getting closer to computer based units as time moves on . Its common to see keyboards in airbus cockpits and many of <URL> . As we move into a more automated era some switches have even been lost to digital control units . Even the flight controls them selves have moved into the modern age with <URL> .
Atmospheric conditions do not cause aircraft to break up in flight . Improper aircraft handling in response to bad weather can cause an aircraft to be overstressed and then breakup . So can improper handling due to disorientation .
From ARINC 429 , Attachment 6 : Label 025 , Selected Altitude ( BCD ) Five binary coded decimals . Range is up to 50000 . Resolution is 1 foot . Bit 29 ( MSC ) ------------------------------ Bit 11 ( LSC ) 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 1 0 0 | 0 0 0 1 | 0 0 0 0 | 0 0 0 0 | 0 0 0 0 The above line codes to 41000 ft. Note : Negative sign is annunciated in the sign/status matrix . Label 102 , Selected Altitude ( BNR ) 16 bits of data . Range of 65536 . Resolution ( value of LSB ) is 1 foot . Bit 28 ( MSB ) ------------------- Bit 13 ( LSB ) ( Bits 12-11 are set to 0 ) 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 The above line codes to 41000 ft. Note : Negative values are encoded as the two 's complements of positive values and the negative sign is annunciated in the sign/status matrix .
This excellent explanation is taken from <URL> in 2006 : FDRs are equipped with an Underwater Locator Beacon ( ULB ) . If you look at a picture of an FDR , you will almost always see a small , cylindrical object attached to one end of the device . If a plane crashes into the water , this beacon sends out an ultrasonic pulse that can not be heard by human ears but is readily detectable by sonar and acoustical locating equipment . There is a submergence sensor on the side of the beacon that looks like a bull 's - eye . When water touches this sensor , it activates the beacon . The beacon sends out pulses at 37.5 kilohertz ( kHz ) and can transmit sound as deep as 14,000 feet ( 4,267 m ) . Once the beacon begins " pinging " , it pings once per second for 30 days . <URL> can now transmit as deep as 20,000 ft. The following table is taken from <URL> on Hydro International about the retrieval of black boxes . It shows the radius you can pick up the signal of a pinger from : Notice that if pingers were replaced with more powerful transponders , the range could be drastically improved ! The article also points out , that in very deep water : under normal conditions , the existing pinger would not be detectable from the surface in depths exceeding 2km
Probably not . Depending on how poor your planning was ( or appeared to be ) you may have nothing happen , have letter placed in your file ( not a violation ) , receive a violation , have to make a 709 ride with a Fed , or have your cert suspended , or maybe even a combination of some of these . If you were a real goober and just went flying without checking fuel , and then lied about checking fuel , and then get caught lying to federal investigators then , yeah , revocation is a realistic possibility . They do n't like liars . They can deal with stupid mistakes , but they will not tolerate a liar . / / thanks for the edit but was written as a runon / /
Such information is not available , for free , on a world wide level . If you are willing to spend some money , you should have a look at <URL> , which provides such information on a world wide level , for hobby use . However , most countries now make their AIP publically available on the internet . Simply search for " [ country name ] AIP " to look up an AIP for a specific country . In any AIP , you want to look at part 3 of the ENR section . Usually ENR 3.1 , ENR 3.2 or ENR 3.3 . Here is an example of from AIP Denmark : <URL> This information is digital , official , up to date , free and in WGS84 format . However , you will have to look it up for every country . If you are looking for a visual overview of airways and RNAV routes in Europe , a good place to start is the <URL> . You should also check out <URL>
There 's no " standard holding pattern " at any airport , towered or not . If the runway is occupied or temporarily closed for some reason , you might was well leave the traffic pattern and go putt around for a while someplace where there are fewer aircraft . At a towered airport , the controller will likely tell you what to do - but again , you can make both his life and yours easier by just leaving the pattern and going somewhere else until the situation is resolved .
No . See FAR 61.195 ( b ) : Aircraft Ratings . A flight instructor may not conduct flight training in any aircraft for which the flight instructor does not hold : ( 1 ) A pilot certificate and flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating ... Without an Airplane - Single Engine rating on the flight instructor certificate , an instructor may not conduct flight training in a single-engine airplane . As an aside , a CFI/I/MEI needs only a third class medical . See FAR 61.23 ( a ) ( 3 ) ( iv ) : ( 3 ) [ A person ] must hold at least a third-class medical certificate -- ... ( iv ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate and acting as the pilot in command ; ( v ) When exercising the privileges of a flight certificate and serving as a required pilot flight crewmember In addition , note that these requirements are for an instructor also acting as a PIC or required pilot . When the student is the only required crewmember for a given flight , the instructor is not required to hold a medical certificate at all .
What you might have seen is the condensation due to the vortex generated by the <URL> . The image below shows a vortex being generated by the chine . <URL> Image from <URL> . Photo credit - <URL>
end question
start question
What can passengers do if they realise their plane is not on the right path ?
Okay , so , going with the idea that you have a compass ( and also with the idea that this can be a general question , not necessarily about flight MH370 ) . If you 're heading from Tokyo , Japan to Seattle , Washington , USA ( direct ) , then you could be reasonably certain the craft should be somewhere between headings 45 and 135 . So if you notice the craft is on a heading of 270 ( ie. , clearly you 're going in the opposite direction ) and this direction has been sustained for say , an hour , I 'd think it would be okay to at least ask the cabin crew what 's going on . As with any time you are raising a concern with the cabin crew , you should be polite . As has been stated , they are used to passengers being a bit nervous and , as a result , they can easily interpret belligerence as a sign of irrational fear . And , as you might guess , it 's easy to ignore someone if you feel they are being irrational . So , if you want be taken seriously , be polite . You 're far more likely to get an actual answer , or raise a valid concern even . So , if you just ask , " why are we headed west instead of east " they may have a very simple answer like , " well , the pilot mentioned we might have to take an odd route to avoid some weather " or " this is the flight to Bombay India , how did you get on it ? " Or , they may have no idea and be concerned themselves , so they go and ask their superior . Thus , goal achieved , you 've alerted the flight crew :) . Either way , so long as you 're polite and do n't become insistent ( or belligerent ) that you are correct , I ca n't see any harm in just asking . And sometimes asking is what leads to a problem being solved so ... I 'd say go for it .
You can descend down to 100ft above TDZE if you have any ALS in sight . You need an ALS with red lights ( ALSF I &amp; II ) to go below that . Red terminating bars/red side row bars help you find the threshold . Think of an ALS with red lights as being in the same category as Runway/lights/markings , Threashold/lights/markings , Touchdown Zone/lights/markings , VASI/PAPI , and REIL . Any other type of ALS ( MALSR , MALSF , etc. ) has the 100ft above TDZE restriction put on it when it is the only thing you can see . @mins linked to a couple of helpful articles in the comments .
I 'll address these one by one . Should shoulder harnesses be installed , at least to enable passengers to decide to use them or not ? No . They would not serve a significant purpose to improve safety in those seats , and they would add weight and increase maintenance costs for airlines . Keep reading , and this will come to light collectively with my full answer . Why would shoulder harnesses be obligated for flight attendants in their jump seats , but not for passengers ? Those seats are n't lined up in rows , therefore there is no seat in front of them that they would hit and be stopped by . Think of it like a school bus with no seat belts ; the passengers will be stopped by the seat in front of them in a low-force crash , but the bus driver wears a seat belt because there is a steering wheel and windshield in front of them , not a padded seat . How is 4 true ? ( It is superfluous in a crash when compared to the same safety from a lap belt ) Essentially , if there is a crash that will kill people , the shoulder harness will not be the thing that makes a difference . The lap belt is n't really even there for crashes . Extreme turbulence could throw someone up out of a seat ; a lap belt is sufficient to prevent this . A shoulder strap is designed to reduce impact with an object on board a vehicle . A car , we can safely assume , will remain in one piece if it hits a concrete wall . Airplanes do not have structures designed to withstand impacts like that . If a plane disintegrates in a crash , the passenger , packaged along with the lap belt , shoulder strap , and all , will come to impact the external object directly due to structural failure . No seat belt can save you from a total structural failure . Do the safety benefits not outweigh the costs ? Since there really is no safety benefit whatsoever in adding them in the seats that do n't already have them , no . It would be security theater that costs airlines a lot of money . Regarding Pilots Notice I highlighted the low-force impact statement up above in regards to buses . Let 's say there is a low-force impact in a plane such as a taxiing crash that jars everyone on board . The passengers will hit the seats in front of them , not that the seats are even necessary to prevent injury . However the pilots , on the other hand , have a lot of hard instrumentation in front of them such as throttle quadrants , and other things you do n't want accidentally shoved forward during a ground crash .
For my answer I 'm going to assume that someone is genuinely trying to shoot you down for some reason , it 's not some sort of legal intercept . If you ignore a legal intercept then I can see a warning shot being fired to get your attention , in which case I would tell ATC I 've been intercepted and get on guard ( 121.5 ) and communicate with them and follow their instructions , evasive maneuvering in this case is a bad idea . I 'm also assuming that no missiles are involved because if you are against a missile equipped enemy in a PA-28 the missile 's going to win . It may be called a Warrior but let 's face it , it ai n't . In the incredibly unlikely event that someone is trying to kill you without warning then communication with the ground would be my last priority in the situation you describe because ATC can not help you and you do n't have time to explain it to them anyway . If you have a one-button squawk emergency button by all means hit it , but first and foremost you need to keep positive control on the airplane . If you exceed your critical AOA and end up in a spin you are in a worse emergency and if you rip the wings off you are dead . If it is at night then turning off your lights would be a smart idea , this wo n't help if the fire is radar guided but it will if the fire is visual . If there 's a cloud very close by going into it is probably a great idea . Next you need to determine whether the fire is air or ground based . If it 's ground based you will know because the tracers will be going from below you to above you ( hopefully not through you ) then your best bet is to throttle up and clear the area as quickly as you can by staying on the same track so you get away from the guns . Diving will increase your airspeed allowing you to clear the area faster but keep it below the vne ! Some small left/right turns may help to throw of the aim of the guns , but large turns will only serve to keep you close to the guns for longer . If there 's terrain nearby which you can put between you and the guns then use it . If the fire is air based then the tracers will be closer to the horizontal . If you are being shot at from another aircraft then flying in a straight line is likely the worst possible idea , you need to maneuver . If your airplane is faster than theirs then dive and outrun them , but chances are you are n't going to be able to do that , so personally I would corkscrew down and cling to the nap of the earth . Use your short turning radius to its best effect and do n't fly a predictable path . Ideally I would use terrain and/or clouds to try and break visual contact so I can escape . If you can spare a few cycles in all this you should make a mayday call to ATC and tell them you 're being shot at , and whether it is another aircraft or someone on the ground . Say your intentions , your aircraft condition , and the number of people on board . This is n't likely to immediately help you , but it may help to keep someone else from flying into the same situation if there 's a nutcase on the loose with an anti-aircraft gun or someone 's strapped a 50 cal to their SR-22 and is playing red baron with passing aircraft . If you 're lucky local law enforcement or the military may be able to scramble something fast and take the heat off you , but most likely it 's all over by the time they get there .
Here is an illustration of how cabin pressure changes during a typical commercial flight : <URL> image source : <URL> Note how when the pressure outside the aircraft is changing , the pressure inside the aircraft is also changing , but not as much . During the flight shown here , you would experience about the same pressure changes that you would in an unpressurized Piper Cub that only went to 7000 feet .
The key point here is that your body does not measure blood oxygen levels . Instead , the urge to breathe is caused by a surplus of carbon dioxide in your blood . At sea level , this is fine : the only way to get so much carbon dioxide in your blood is if you used up all the oxygen . At higher altitudes , the pressure is lower , and consequently the oxygen partial pressure . Since the rate of diffusion in your lungs is a function of pressure , this means that oxygen will diffuse less readily into your blood . At the same time , carbon dioxide diffuses more readily out of your blood due to the low pressure . This reduces your urge to breathe ; you do not feel ' out of breath ' . See <URL> . At even higher altitudes , the pressure is actually so low that breathing will cause oxygen to diffuse out of your blood ; you can breathe as much as you want but the partial pressure of oxygen in your blood will never be higher than the partial oxygen pressure in the air . This is why oxygen masks work ( even if they 're not airtight ) : they replace all air near your nose and mouth with oxygen , so that the partial pressure of oxygen equals the total atmospheric pressure rather than the usual ~ 21 % . See <URL> and <URL> Wikipedia page , or for example <URL> . Somewhat related : at sea level , you can also run out of oxygen before you feel the urge to breathe . You might think that breathing deeply before having to hold your breath for a long time increases the amount of oxygen in your blood , increasing your endurance . This is only partially true : it also artificially reduces your carbon dioxide levels , reducing your urge to breathe . This way , you can <URL> , which can be dangerous under water !
Honestly , very little . First , be clear as to whether you are actually see something failing . If you see flames , or a wing has broken off , then yes , it 's a problem . However , if you see someone doing a slow spiral towards an empty field with the power idling , they 're more likely to be practicing engine out procedures ( something that 's required for all US pilots to practice and demonstrate during their checkride for their certificate ) . In the event that you actually see an impact , fire , off-airport landing and so on , call 911 and give them your location . They 'll send the appropriate crews . Otherwise , if the aircraft is still flying , there 's a strong chance the pilot ( s ) are already talking to ATC about their problem , if it actually exists . There 's nothing you really can or need to do in this case . Quick Anecdote : I 've been told the story of a local police department who gets phone calls virtually every time a citizen lands his small airplane in his private field . Fire/police/medics / etc are summoned , when absolutely nothing bad has happened . This is why you should make an attempt to verify that a problem actually exists before reporting it .
In addition to repaints , aircraft are also periodically washed and treated to maintain the paint quality and reduce the build up of dust/grime/salt and other particulates . There are automated systems installed at some airports to clean airplanes as they taxi over these areas . Think of it as a drive through car wash , but for airplanes . The very first applications of these were actually for the US Navy because they have a requirement to wash aircraft due to their proximity to seawater . A company called tammermatic developed a system for the navy to clean airplanes directly on the field using a set of powerful jets . Images from the <URL> <URL> <URL> Then there is the <URL> ( PDF brochure ) , developed by PMW ( a company that makes concrete pumps ) to wash aircraft automatically . It was first used by Lufthansa in 1997 ( image cc : ARNE DEDERT / AFP ) : <URL>
It all depends on the autopilot , but generally no . If for example , you tell the autopilot to climb at 300 fpm , it will keep adjusting pitch to do just that . As you climb higher ( without changing the power ) the autopilot will keep increasing pitch to maintain the set vertical speed . Eventually the airplane will get too slow because of the increased pitch and can even stall . Some autopilots have pitch limits or monitor the stall inputs and automatically disconnect before it gets to this point , but others do n't . It is very important to know your autopilot and to monitor it at all times to make sure that it is doing what you want .
NOTE : as pointed out in the comments , none of these quick verification steps actually guarantees that the airplane you clambered into is certified for LPV approaches , or for IFR GPS usage at all ! On boot , a 430W will display that it 's a 430W : Aside from that , I 'm sure there 's a version info screen somewhere ( on both G1000 and GNS430 ) , but the best solution I can think of is to check the satellite status screen . I 'm trying to find examples of a 430W displaying it , and failing , but on a G1000 , you 'll see this : <URL> ( <URL> ) If the G1000 supports WAAS , it 'll display that under the ' SBAS Selection ' header and you 'll see satellites at the bottom numbered in the 100s - , , , etc - all the 100-series satellites are the WAAS augmentation satellites . The satellites augmented by WAAS will also have a " D " at the bottom of the signal strength column .
The point is not that the oxygen is used up . Even after a depressurization , the air around you still contains so much oxygen that it would take your body ( at rest ) hours to burn it all . But this oxygen is spread out so thinly that a standard set of lungs will not be up to getting enough of it from the cabin air into your blood at the rate your brain needs . This goes into effect immediately when the pressure drops . As soon as the oxygen masks fall down , the flight crew will know , and they will make it an immediate priority to get the aircraft down to an altitude where the masks are not needed anymore because the outside pressure is high enough to breathe by . This takes less than the time the oxygen generators last for . ( Usually descending will take much less time than the masks are good for -- the critical design factor for the oxygen mask duration is that if you happen to be over tall mountains when the pressure drops you may need to fly for a bit of time to reach terrain low enough to dispense with the masks . There are a few places , such as over the Tibetan plateau , where airline flights simply do n't go because it 's too far from sufficiently low terrain for the masks to last ) . There is no realistic chance of the oxygen generators running dry while you still need them . If you delay putting your mask on , all you buy is a danger of fainting or otherwise being unable to don it ( from low pressure , not depletion of oxygen in the air ) before you decide to put it on -- and then you may end up in a low-oxygen state for long enough to risk permanent harm . There 's a reason why the safety briefing always instructs you to put your own mask on before helping others -- because the time it takes to help someone else may well be enough to incapacitate yourself .
There is a weight sensor which senses if the plane is on the ground . This sensor prevents gear retraction while the plane is still on the ground . Failure of this sensor would prevent gear retraction after takeoff . If you note closely , the landing gears ( even the non-retractable ones ) are not connected using a simple metal pole ; rather , there is <URL> which is compressed by the weight of the aircraft . Besides airborne / ground detection , the struts absorb the vertical energy during touchdown . <URL> I recall some decades ago engineers experimented obtaining the plane 's gross weight by installing weight scales to each landing gear ( as opposed to just an air/ground detection ) . The readings were found to be inaccurate and they soon abandoned the idea . Landing gear stories can not be complete without mentioning this incident in 1990 : A training captain of a <URL> was betting with his students that the weight-on-gear mechanism would prevent gear retraction while on the ground . On the accident airplane type , the mechanism would lock the gear handle , but the lock can be overridden if the pilot manually pull out and move the handle . The instructor confidently pulled out the handle and to his surprise , the hydraulics started to move and the gears were retracted while the plane was still on the ground . <URL> ( <URL> ) The aircraft was written off . This incompetent instructor pilot was killed 11 years later in <URL> .
Sometimes they do add temporary tanks . <URL> of what Hawaiian Airlines had to do to get their fleet of 717 's over the Pacific because they did not have the range . I do n't have the answer to your question specifically , but I would guess they either add temporary tanks and go from <URL> which is not much further than max-range , or take the long haul through the US and Europe . There 's a <URL> about this .
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
Go to the toilet before departure , and hope you can find somewhere to land if nature calls suddenly :) Same really as before a long car journey today ... Of course aircraft of that time did n't have very long endurance , so the situation was n't likely to arise that you 'd need to make a pit stop to let nature take its course . You 'd have a scheduled stop anyway well before that .
Fly ? No . Wings generally only produce enough lift to keep an aircraft aloft when air is flowing over them in their intended direction . If you reverse the airflow over the wing ( by moving backwards in the air , for example ) the wing would no longer be producing the necessary lift , and the aircraft would " descend at an extremely rapid rate " until a normal airflow over the wings was restored . ( That 's the polite way of saying " the darn thing falls out of the sky like a rock ! " ) Move ? Yes . At least on the ground . This has been demonstrated on more than one occasion by <URL> , the C-130 that supports the Blue Angels . While the propellers themselves do not reverse , the blade pitch is changed to produce reverse thrust ( slowing the aircraft the same way thrust reversers do on a jet engine , and in this case reversing its direction of travel ) . Note that there is one notable exception to the " airplanes ca n't fly backwards " rule , <URL> : If the wind velocity exceeds the aircraft 's stall speed it 's possible for an aircraft to " fly " at its minimum airspeed , but be moving backwards relative to the ground . This is a bit of a cheat though : The airplane still thinks it 's flying forward ( the relative velocity of the wind over the wings is in the " normal " direction , and the airspeed is fast enough to create enough lift to sustain flight ) . It just happens the the airspeed includes a headwind component sufficient to give the aircraft a net " negative " groundspeed . The hypothetical P-51 in your question would require sustained winds of about 83 knots to make this trick work ( we generally call that a hurricane ) , but something like a <URL> can do it at much more reasonable wind speeds .
If you are emitting RF , you can be seen . There are two ways to emit RF : 1 . Transmit ( or leak ) a RF signal , and 2 . Reflect a RF signal . A jamming device emits ( usually ) high amounts of RF , with the general idea that the receiver of someone 's radar unit will be desensed or otherwise overwhelmed by the signal . Like putting a multicolored sun into a small dark room . So with multiple receivers ( as in multi-static radar ) a jamming aircraft can normally be rather precisely located ( assuming omnidirectional uniformity of the jamming signal ) . When noise jamming , your aircraft may not broadcast on , near or on harmonics of a given frequency within a temporal frame of when you are emitting on that frequency , so your receiver has the opportunity to detect returns . More importantly , your noise emitter may drop power and your radar receiver may have cans ( well , cavities ) tuned to protect the sensitivity of your radar receiver when expecting a return signal . There are many books on radar technology , but I believe EW102 covers radar , deceptions , noise jammers and other techniques in a manner that most mildly technical people can read and understand . There are other books , but I use that series in an Electronic Warfare course I teach , and they are reasonably current . The open literature is rich with advances in jamming and other stealth methodologies that have advanced tremendously in the last 50 years .
Qualifier : I am a master parachute rigger and taught sport skydiving for 10 years . Standard jump altitude is 12,000 feet AGL - this is one turn of the standard parachutist 's altimeter . This height provides 1 minute of freefall , is within reach of a Cessna with a decent engine and does not require supplementary oxygen . For most places , this means an operating altitude between 12,000 and 15,000 feet MSL . Dropzones in high areas like Denver will reduce their jump altitude to 9,500 feet AGL mainly because the piston-powered planes take too long to climb higher and/or the upper part of the climb runs into the oxygen zone .
While I 'm not a pilot , I think it goes along these lines : Airlines typically assume a value for passengers depending on gender and age . This distribution in the cabin will typically be quite random and a little variation does not do any damage . Baggage however is weighed on the scales at check in . Each bag is normally scanned as it is passed onto the plane , so that they know where is bag is located . The values are then passed onto the pilots who are able to work out that the numbers are ok . Sometimes there are preferences to load up bags in a certain way for fuel issues , so this is very important to make sure this is still resonable . These values are then plugged into computers or worked out manually on a paper loadsheet to make sure they are good and within limits . In fact the weight systems you are referring to are quite unusual I think , see <URL> .
As Ron mentions in the comments here in the US it is not illegal by any specific regulations however ... Most GA aircraft ( the smaller ones at least ) only have a single set of instruments that reside in front of the left seat as you mention in the question . Lets say hypothetically you were flying right seat and something went wrong . Due to the angle of view you were not able to read an instrument and this lead to an accident . Lets say you lose your primary CDI/Glide Slope while flying an ILS approach and you need to use one on the far side of the cockpit . For some reason you are alone and in the right seat . If an accident did occur as a result of this you may be able to be held to <URL> ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . Since the left seat was open and available for you . But other than that there is no regulation preventing such operation . <URL> posted an <URL> in the comments below that has at least one quote worth mentioning Aircraft insurance policies and flying club rules often specify that all flying is to be done from the left seat unless the pilot holds a current flight instructor certificate or has specific authorization . While this is not an FAA regulation insurance companies or the rental/flight club you get your plane from may stipulate left seat only flying .
end question
start question
What is an Enhanced Vision System ?
It 's essentially a combination of the capabilities of <URL> and <URL> , although built into the aircraft and displayed in the HUD rather than worn as goggles . FLIR , short for Forward Looking Infra Red , uses far-IR to see the heat of terrain , and essentially turns the night into day , at least for the field of view that it " sees . " NVG 's ( Night Vision Goggles ) use near-IR and magnified visible light . The near-IR does n't see terrain except to the extent that it 's illuminated by something ( moonlight , starlight ) , and far-IR ca n't do much to tell the difference between a light that 's on or off ( so you can see the runway edge , but you ca n't see the runway edge lights using FLIR , for instance ) . The two systems have slightly differing capabilities and limitations ; when both are fused together onto a display ( i.e. a Heads-Up Display , or HUD ) , the pilot gets a pretty amazing picture of what is directly in front of him : the far IR shows him the runway edges , taxiways , pavement , buildings , obstructions , etc , and the near-IR makes lights ( i.e. runway and taxiway lights ) stand out . In low visibility , the far-IR tends to be somewhat more degraded than the near-IR , whereas at night &amp; with no moon , the near-IR shows the lights but not much else . Together , the pilot can get the runway lights in sight sooner than he could unaided , and by the time he 's landing he can see " everything " in the field of view of the HUD , not just the lights themselves . Example videos : <URL> <URL> <URL> When the videos get down close to the runway , you can pick out the glowing approach and runway lights , which is where EVS differs from pure FLIR . With FLIR , you 'd see ( sort-of ) the lights and any framework that they 're mounted on , but they would n't particularly glow -- they might as well be off . With EVS , the crew can fly a CAT I ILS and actually have the approach lights , runway , runway lights , etc all in sight at the 200 ' DH , even when the visibility is such that with the naked eye , none of that would be visible . At major US airports , CAT III approaches are often available , but elsewhere they may be rare or nonexistent . The EVS capability has the promise of allowing crews to successfully land out of a Cat I approach ( i.e. at an airfield that only has Cat I ground equipment ) even in Cat III weather ; from the OP 's quote , it looks like they already have approval to use it for Cat II conditions . And for a global carrier like FedEx , that 's a capability worth having .
Historically , avionics manufacturers have used off-the-shelf processors on custom circuit cards . Processor selection has been based on getting a reliable processor ( established history ) at a reasonable price and an expectation that it will be available for a long time . The high turnover ( obsolescence ) in processor design along with a lack of design integrity in commercial products is causing avionics companies to move towards custom chips . Though some products meet the integrity by using two dissimilar processors ( though it does n't address the obsolescence issue ) . I am aware of a number of older designs using 486 and PowerPC processors . Operating systems ( just like all the a/c software ) have to comply with the appropriate level of DO-178 ( currently rev C ) . In practical terms , that means the OS has to meet DO-178 Level A . There are a number of commercial solutions available . LynxOS-178 is one . Integrity-178 is available from Green Hills . Wind River also has a product available .
No , they are not interchangeable and indeed , have well defined meanings . A fix is an arbitrary point in space used to establish current position calculated by referring to external references . You take a fix to determine where you are now . A fix might be permanent , for example a compulsory reporting point , or it might be determined by the pilot in advance in order to fly a non-airways route ( e.g. when flying VFR ) and then checked along the way using dead reckoning and reference to external systems or features to check that the plan is being flown accurately . It might also be requested by ATC , e.g. " report when overhead the railroad yard " or calculated to establish where you are , e.g. taking a fix from an astrolabe on a night oceanic crossing . <URL> <URL> . A waypoint is fixed point in 2D space ( latitude and longitude ) used to define points along a route . They are named , and are referenced in a plan . You fly from one waypoint to the next , along a route . A waypoint is where you are flying to . It is normally positioned where there is a change of course or altitude . These are the navigation positions given the <URL> you ask about . <URL> <URL> . <URL> An intersection is where two airways cross . Here , the Victor airways 15 and 76 cross at the intersection . In this particular case , the chart symbol further shows that the V76 airway does not use the intersection , in which case the chart will include a note of the intersection usage . <URL> <URL> . Now sorry about this , but having said they are not interchangeable , it 's not that simple . A waypoint is also a fix ( a fix is any 2D point ) . But you do not call a waypoint a fix . A fix is a 2D point which is not a waypoint , but is used for navigation . A fix might be also be a lat and long defining the beginning of an arrival or departure procedure where you leave or enter an airway . An intersection is also a fix , but it only exists to define where two airways cross ( or where any other 2 lines cross , e.g. the 170 degree and 046 degree radial from two NDB beacons ) so is called an intersection , not a fix . In that sense , they are all fixes but the name has meaning .
The fly-by-wire is absolutely vital for control of the aircraft , and the three dominating factors here are safety , safety and safety . Weight is not one of them . The fly-by-wire system is triple or quad redundant : instead of removing a set of cables , the manufacturers are installing 3 more cable looms , just to make sure that the system always works . <URL> Wires are safer than wireless ! . There are active transmitters and receivers in wireless systems , which can fail . Signal reception depends on the quality of the space between transmitter &amp; receiver : can the signal always penetrate the aluminium bulkhead ? What happens to the wireless signal when flying past airport radar or in the weather radar field of another aircraft ? Shielded wires are passive and relatively immune to electro-magnetic radiation , and are the means of choice for such a safety critical system . Update The OP was on fly-by-wire . In a sense , the flight control system is the most safety critical system on board and must be immediately available at all times . The <URL> in a comment reports on the progress of on-board wireless communication , for systems with a less critical safety aspect : Examples of Potential WAIC Applications Low Data Rate , Interior Applications ( LI ) : Sensors : Cabin Pressure - Smoke Detection - Fuel Tank/Line -- Proximity Temperature - EMI Incident Detection - Structural Health Monitoring - Humidity/Corrosion Detection Controls : Emergency Lighting - Cabin Functions Low Data Rate , Outside Applications ( LO ) : Sensors : Ice Detection - Landing Gear Position Feedback - Brake Temperature - Tire Pressure - Wheel Speed - Steering Feedback - Flight Controls Position Feedback - Door Sensors Engine Sensors - Structural Sensors High Data Rate , Interior Applications ( HI ) : Sensors : Air Data - Engine Prognostic - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Images/Video Comm. : Avionics Communications Bus - FADEC Aircraft Interface - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Audio / Video ( safety-related ) High Data Rate , Outside Applications ( HO ) : Sensors : Structural Health Monitoring Controls : Active Vibration Control <URL> From the same presentation : An A380 has 5,700 kg of wires on board , and 30 % of them are potential candidates for a wireless substitute . So wireless communication on board of aircraft does make sense , starting with the non-safety critical systems first .
<URL> : Airworthiness Directives ( ADs ) are legally enforceable rules issued by the FAA in accordance with 14 CFR part 39 to correct an unsafe condition in a product . 14 CFR part 39 defines a product as an aircraft , aircraft engine , propeller , or appliance . When an aircraft or other component is found to have flaws or other issues , the FAA will issue an AD specifying a solution to be applied to the item . The AD must be complied with , often by a date or total time on the airframe . The action required could simply be an inspection ( often recurring after , say , 100 hours of time in service ) , while in other cases requires modification , strengthening , or replacement of parts . One of the more prominent cases requiring ADs to be issued was the <URL> , which had issues with the tail 's structural integrity under high loads . The cost of complying with an AD falls on the owner/operator of the aircraft . Failing to comply with an AD renders the aircraft unairworthy . It also could incur FAA penalties , but more importantly , it could result in structural damage or failure , and in some cases ultimately cause a fatal accident .
In general , the engine life is measured in terms of two things : Flight hours Flight cycles A takeoff and a landing counts as a flight cycle . The most important concept in engine life is the Time Between Overhaul ( TBO ) , which is basically the manufacturer recommended time period after which the engine is stripped down , checked thoroughly and required parts replaced . After overhaul , the engine is usually cleared till the next TBO . An overhauled engine is theoretically as good as a new one and comes with the same life ( TBO ) and warranty , if applicable . Airline engines ( for example the Rolls Royce Trent series ) usually have TBOs of over 15000 hours . The record for maximum time for an engine on wing ( i.e. use in aircraft before removal for overhaul ) is well over 40,000 hours . The life of an engine is given by the manufacturer and are different for different engines . However , the engine life depends on a number of parameters and is usually different for various engine components . The rotating components have life limits which are less than the engine and are replaced periodically , mostly during the TBO . For example , the turbine blades are replaced after a set number of turbine cycles and/or after a set number of hours , which are lesser than the others . In addition , most rotating components ( compressors , turbines ) are periodically subjected to checks , and are replaced if found damaged . In case of abnormal operations , some parts are required to be replaced . For example , if one engine is required to give excessive thrust ( for example in case of One Engine Inoperative ) , the engine is subjected to thorough checks similar to TBO . Airline engines are usually serviced ( Overhauled at TBOs ) and maintained till they are deemed not good to use or not economical to ( service/repair and ) operate anymore . Most of the engine manufacturers employ condition based health monitoring programs , which helps them to plan when to service and repair the engine . As a result , the engine life varies based on its condition .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
Handlers are private companies who provide services ( for a fee ) to pilots and passengers when they fly in and out of an airport . Depending on the airport , sometimes handlers are required by the local authorities to be used , and other times there are not even any handlers available ( a lot of US airports do not have them , for instance ) . Often though , they are optional and there to assist crews that are unfamiliar with the procedures at a new airport or who want their assistance as a convenience . They typically assist with coordinating things like fuel , lavatory service , flight plans , local permits , passenger transportation , catering , coffee/ice/newspapers , etc. . Many times they pay for everything ( in the local currency ) and provide one consolidated bill for the client to pay . Note that handlers can be employed by local FBO 's ( Fixed Based Operators ) , or they can be part of a larger international company that provides handling services all over the world . In either case , they are generally coordinating all of the different parties and services needed in order to operate an aircraft in and out of their airport .
Summary No . The aspects that are talked about now are not the ones talked about then . My ( hazy ) recollection is of concerns that the A320 lacked a system of cables and pulleys of the sort used by the Wright brothers . Perhaps pilots of the time had more focused concerns but I do n't recall them making the front pages of newspapers . In the 1980s there was discussion of Airbus flight control systems but the discussion focused on factors that were not involved in the most notable A320 crashes in the late '80s and early 90 's . Several Airbus accidents seem to be at least partly the result of pilots lack of familiarity with sophisticated aircraft systems in general rather than with features that are not found in other aircraft . The Airbus control system The main innovations by Airbus were the application to civil airliners of designs that had previously only been used on other types of aircraft . Fly by wire . No mechanical cables , pulleys and associated friction . Sidesticks . To provide clearer view of displays and greater pilot comfort . Flight envelope protection . To prevent excessive inputs stalling or damaging the airframe . Transfer of control Airbus spent some time comparing and investigating support for transfer of control between pilots , including in emergency situations . They investigated pilot preferences for several approaches to this . They revisited this aspect over the years and it has become a point of focus since the AF447 report . However it does n't seem to have been a particular point of controversy in 1987 . Perhaps few people in the 1980s fully realized the extent to which pilots can operate independently and antagonistically in severe emergencies and the degree to which teamwork and communication disappears . There were multiple severe accidents briefly after the entry into service of the A320 You mean these : 26 June 1988 , <URL> . Pilots flew aircraft into trees during unrehearsed demonstration flight at unfamiliar aerodrome after mistaking trees for grass on approach . 14 February 1990 <URL> . Idle/open descent mode engaged and pilots failed to act as aircraft descended into terrain near airport . 20 January 1992 <URL> . Aircraft flown into terrain after autopilot incorrectly put into vertical speed mode and entered numbers appropriate for flight-angle mode . Air Inter had chosen not to equip aircraft with ground proximity warning system . The total number of hull-loss accidents for the 320 does n't seem high compared to other aircraft , but it 's hard to compare the numbers if you do n't take into account fleet size , cycles flown etc. . the A320 seems to have a very aggressive manipulation of the aircraft controls I 'm not sure what you mean by " aggressive manipulation " but that seems an extreme view . The Airbus systems are a progressive development of existing trends . The accidents were largely the result of pilots setting inappropriate modes in systems like the autopilot . The accidents apparently did n't arise because of , for example , the way the control sticks operate . Was there ever any questioning of the Airbus augmented control prior to the introduction to service ? By " augmented control " I guess you mean features like the flight envelope protection that prevents pilot inputs from overloading the airframe . That does n't seem to have been controversial . The only controversy was over two items that had been used in military aircraft but not in commercial passenger aircraft fly by wire sidesticks These do n't seem to have been a large factor in the specific accidents mentioned above . Further reading : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Aeroscraft is their brand name . It does not mean anything generally . The general terms are : " Aircraft " ( but not " aerocraft " ) means any machine capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere . " <URL> " is a lighter-then-air aircraft . That is it has large shell filled with gas with lower density than air and uses buoyant force on that for lift . This includes balloons , hot-air or gas filled , tethered balloons and airships . " <URL> " , or " dirigible " is an aerostat equipped with propulsion that allows it to move on it 's own ( as opposed to balloons that are tethered or carried by wind ) .
According to the tooltips on the Lockheed Martin site , the flight rules are : MVFR - Military VFR ; restricted to military flights MIFR - Military IFR ; restricted to military flights YFR - Initially operated under IFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules ZFR - Initially operated under VFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules There 's very little information on MVFR and MIFR flight plans that I could find , but the FAA 's FSS procedures do include <URL> that are required when receiving a military flight plan ( section 6-4-7 ) . YFR and ZFR are ICAO rules ; the FAA calls combined VFR/IFR flight plans composite flight plans ( see <URL> in the AIM ) and on a US domestic composite flight plan both VFR and IFR should be checked . Interestingly , the Lockheed Martin site does n't allow that .
The <URL> says : The system uses power from the engines , thus reducing their maximum performance . With the anti-ice system on , the highest altitude at which the overloaded aircraft could fly -- without stalling -- was reduced to 31,900 feet ( 9,700 m ) . The de-icing system on most turbine aircraft ( including MD-82 involved in that accident ) uses bleed air from the engines , that is it extracts some air from behind the ( low pressure stage of the ) compressor . This air is therefore not ejected from the nozzle and not producing thrust , so the thrust is reduced . Or fuel flow rate increased if thrust levers are advanced to compensate , provided the engines are still below their maximum permitted thrust setting . Either way fuel consumption per mile increases . Compressing air increases it 's temperature , so this pressurized air is simply blown through tubes under the critical surfaces . There are other uses of bleed air , mainly pressurization and air-conditioning , but turning on deicing increases it 's consumption significantly . And note that this switching de-icing off and on was part of the accident sequence . It was only because they turned de-icing off that they were able to climb to FL330 in the first place . It is also often not allowed to use de-icing when outside temperature is higher than some value because the heated surfaces could overheat .
In order to state the plane is airworthy you must be able to show that all AD 's have been complied with and that the aircraft is within annual ( or 100 hour ) inspection ; these proofs are typically found in the logbook so no , without the logbook your aircraft is probably not airworthy . It may be possible to fly the plane legally in the US anyway if you receive authorization from your FSDO ( which , I believe , would be a " ferry permit " ) . It 's not legally required that your logbook be complete to the beginning of time , just that it shows the current requirements are met ( along with the signatures/cert numbers of the AI 's that are stating them to be met ) . However , an incomplete logbook is very important from a resale point of view . Not having complete logs will make a plane very difficult to sell and will certainly affect the price most purchasers would be willing to pay .
The F-14 manual describes the ejection system as : The aircraft is equipped with an automatic electronically sequenced command escape system incorporating two Navy aircrew common ejection seat ( SJU-17 ( V ) 3/A ( pilot ) and SJU-17 ( V ) 4/A ( RIO ) ) rocket-assisted ejection seats . That means the seats are an integral part of the system . According to <URL> , the weight is 228 pounds ( 103 kg ) and it has a " maximum thrust [ of ] 4,800 pounds for 0.25 seconds " . A cockpit seat on a Boeing 737 weighs around 40 kg if we are to trust this <URL> , so we can say the addition of the ejection elements adds 63 kg . Of course a 737 cockpit seat is much heavier than a WWII non-existent seat ( the pilots <URL> their own cushions ) . This might be useful however if you want to compare a B-52 with and without ejection seats . Below is an image for that ejection system , and as I gather , that 's a very common ( average ) model found on many US aircraft . <URL> ( Click for larger size . )
The pitot tube is not much of a problem - it 's your typical pitot tube , pointing forward ( toward the nose of the helicopter ) to measure forward airspeed . Airspeed is somewhat less important to a helicopter pilot than it is to a fixed wing pilot since lift is generated by swinging the rotor around instead of moving the whole vehicle through the air . The static port requires a little more thought , because it should be located in an area of " undisturbed air " , and being in rotor wash is certainly not " undisturbed " . On the R22 the static port is actually located inside the shell <URL> and is thus shielded from rotor wash : You could locate the static source in a similar unpressurized-but-shielded compartment in a pressurized helicopter . On other helicopters the static port is on the fuselage as on most aircraft , for example this one is on <URL> : <URL> Note that the static port is slightly recessed on the seasprite to keep it out of direct rotor wash . Multiple static ports may also be used ( again , as you 'll find on other aircraft ) to give an average static pressure and reduce the effects of rotor wash on the static pressure reading . As with all static systems there will still be some degree of error - no system is measuring truly static air . As long as it 's within a reasonable tolerance all the instruments should be able to be calibrated to read correctly though .
It 's possible to get a <URL> : An applicant will be considered monocular when there is only one eye or when the best corrected distant visual acuity in the poorer eye is no better than 20/200 . An individual with one eye , or effective visual acuity equivalent to monocular , may be considered for medical certification , any class , through the special issuance section of part 67 ( 14 CFR 67.401 ) .
Though it 's often omitted from diagrams , most pitot tubes have one or more drain holes connected to the pressure chamber , and are essentially " self-draining " ( water does n't make it into the lines ) : <URL> <URL> In addition to drains on the pitot tube itself some aircraft have separate " drip chambers " and drains for the pitot ( and occasionally static ) system to remove condensation or rain that got past the drains ( marked as in the photo below ) : <URL> Regarding other contaminants , at altitude the air is generally pretty clean . The biggest problem you 'll have with contaminants in the pitot tube is usually bugs ( either building a nest in the opening , or smacking into it in flight ) . Pitot covers can be used on the ground to prevent this ( and they 're also used when washing or painting aircraft to prevent water or paint from getting into the system ) . Often some tape serves the same purpose - but you need to be sure to remove the tape or cover before flying .
If an invalid signal is received , then it must be modulated since it is only by measuring the modulation , that the receiver knows if the signal is valid and where it is relative to the localiser and glideslope . An unmodulated carrier on the same frequency is additive . An unmodulated carrier on a different frequency will not affect the receiver ( ignoring possible harmonics of course ) . I suppose that if you could increase the power enough , an unmodulated signal might cause the signal to noise ratio to drop so low that the failure flag would show .
Landing distance is a function of the formula Any change that will increase kinetic energy will require longer landing distances . When we land , the kinetic energy needs to go somewhere . It can be converted into heat with the brakes , opposed with drag from the thrust reversers or deployed spoilers Higher landing speed will cause an increase kinetic energy that must be converted on landing and thus you will have a longer landing distance . Braking , thrust reverser or spoiler issues will increase the landing distance because they will not be as effective ( take more time ) in converting kinetic energy . In a hydraulic issue , most likely the manufacturer has chosen to fly the airplane at a speed greater than needed for a normal landing ( VREF + 20 ) and will most likely not have the ability to use normal braking . Most jets use hydraulic fluid to stop the brakes . In the jets I fly , without normal braking means we use the emergency brakes which are not routed through the anti-skid system so precaution must be taken to not skid the tires . This all adds up to a substantial landing distance penalty . Hare the landing distances for some airplanes . Learjet family : Factor of 3.15 Learjet 45 family : Factor of 2.2 Challenger 604 family : Factor of 1.7 ( braking ) times 1.8 ( airspeed ) for a total of 3.06
Here is what a lot of people experiences about simulator : they sit on a chair in front of a desk at home , run some PC flight simulator game with a yoke , and they can do pretty much anything - in the simulator . Many of these simulators are very real , especially with quality addons . Since they fly very good in the simulator , they should be good pilots too - after all , you just read the readings on the instruments then react to them ! How hard can that be , huh ? It turns out , we are biologically wired to orient ourselves with our ears . It is the result of evolution , with us staying on the ground for the past million years or so . When we fly , the body sends " wrong " signals to the brain . These signals are interpreted as " instincts " , and since we have trusted our body 's sensation ever since we 're born , they are very hard to fight against . Many new pilots faced trouble reacting to instrument readings , because their biological body is telling them the opposite of what the instrument is indicating , creating doubt . Full-motion simulators solves this problem . The movement of the simulator itself is , obviously , restricted . However , it is designed with ear-balance in mind . For example , the simulator will slowly right itself to upright over time , but the rate of rotation is just under the detection threshold of the ear-balance mechanism . Therefore , the occupants will not feel the simulator platform resetting itself . This allows pilots to practice with the sensation associated with attitude changes , in a controlled environment , with a much lower risk ( and much lower cost ) than flying in a real airplane .
end question
start question
What is the procedure to climb and level off using a Bendix/King KAP140 autopilot ?
Only the KAP140 two-axis autopilot with altitude preselect supports capturing a preselected altitude ( which is the one installed in the Cessna 172 before the introduction of the Garmin GFC700 ) Preselect the desired altitude using the altitude preselect knob , switch to VS mode , select the desired VS and the AP will switch to altitude hold mode when the preselected altitude is reached . Taken from <URL> .
Perlan II will climb to extreme altitudes on wave lift , not thermal lift . Wave lift is created when strong winds blow approximately perpendicular to a mountain range , and the wind speed increases steadily with altitude . This creates a standing wave in the atmosphere , kind of like the ripple behind a rock in a fast moving stream of water . On the leading edge of the wave , air is moving up , and that 's where gliders fly . Standing waves can reach very high into the atomosphere , which is why Perlan II is expected to reach 90,000 feet . Perlan II is different from normal gliders in that its wing is optimized for minimum sink , instead of best glide ratio . It 's meant to float along while losing a minimum of altitude , which makes sense if it 's going to fly in nothing but wave . Normal gliders are usually optimized more for gliding long distances , for which glide ratio is more important than minimum sink . Interestingly , Perlan II 's wing looks a lot like RC model glider wings , which are also optimized for minimum sink , since RC gliders do n't typically fly cross country .
Since you are studying maintenance , I would suggest you obtain a copy of ATA iSpec 2200 , Information Standards for Aviation Maintenance ATA Standard Numbering System . Most large aircraft manufacturers and airlines use the ATA Standard Numbering System in organizing their maintenance documentation . To your specific question , the ATA spec lists the following : The FMS is the primary tool for managing the navigation . It is part of the larger Navigation system which includes the aircraft attitude , air data , and positioning sensors . The FMS supports flight planning ( path definition ) and integrated position determination . Chapter 34 NAVIGATION , section 60 Flight Management Computing . That portion of the system which combines navigational data to compute or manage the aircraft 's geographical position or theoretical flight path . Includes items such as course computers , flight management computers , performance data computers , and associated control display units , warning annunciators , etc. . The FM function outputs a desired path and guidance data to the displays and AFCS . The FMS is one source of path and target ( altitude and or speed ) data for the AFCS . The other input source is by crew input via the Mode Control Panel ( MCP ) . The AFCS is functionally independent from the FMS and primary flight control system ( FCS ) , though it is sometimes physically integrated with one or the other or both . The AFCS has two major components , autopilot and auto throttle . Autopilot includes the Flight Director . Chapter 22 AUTO FLIGHT , section 10 Autopilot That portion of the system that uses radio/radar signals , directional and vertical references , air data pitotstatic , computed flight path data , or manually induced inputs to the system to automatically control the flight path of the aircraft through adjustment to the pitch/roll/yaw axis or wing lift characteristics and provide visual cues for flight path guidance , i.e. : Integrated Flight Director . This includes power source devices , interlocking devices and amplifying , computing , integrating , controlling , actuating , indicating and warning devices such as computers , servos , control panels , indicators , warning lights , etc. . and Chapter 22 AUTO FLIGHT , section 30 Auto Throttle That portion of the system that automatically controls the position of the throttles to properly manage engine power during all phases of flight/attitude . This includes engaging , sensing , computing , amplifying , controlling , actuating and warning devices such as amplifiers , computers , servos , limit switches , clutches , gear boxes , warning lights , etc. . The AFSC computes the necessary control inputs to fly the aircraft along the defined path and meet targets . It provides control inputs into the flight controls ( ATA Chapter 27 ) or in the case of the Flight Director , it generates a display that directs the pilot to make the needed control inputs . This steering will steer the aircraft to the path defined by the FMC , or it can steer to a simple path entered by the pilot directly into the AFCS via the MCP . In older aircraft , the autopilot steers by using a series of special actuators to manipulate the controls . In modern fly-by-wire aircraft , it provides input directly to the FCS as the FCS already has the necessary actuators . Auto Throttle provides throttle adjustments to meet speed targets from the FMC or MCP . By the ATA standard , the FMS , AFCS , and FCS are three distinct systems . As noted above , modern fly-by-wire systems are beginning to blur the boundaries . Without the need for separate actuators for the AFCS , it just becomes software much of which is getting merged with the primary FCS .
GPS speed is already available to the crew , although not in an easy to see place . It is n't designed to cross-check other instruments because it is showing entirely different information . The winds are changing the actual speed of the airplane across the ground ( which GPS shows ) and altitude affects the air density ( which changes the airspeed shown on the airspeed indicator ) . The difference between the two can be vast , with no easy correlation . Altitude has similar issues , although not as severe . Even if they could be " synced up " , the problem comes in when there is a difference between the two . Which do you trust ? GPS receivers can ( and do ) fail , and could show an incorrect speed as well . When the computer gets conflicting information like it did between the different systems in the AF447 accident , it gives control to the pilot to sort out . From the time that the autopilot disconnected until the ice blocking the pitot system melted away , only 12 seconds passed . During that time the crew stalled the airplane and then a chain of events ultimately resulted in the crash of a perfectly functioning airplane . The exact same thing had happened numerous times before then without resulting in a crash . After the fact , the NTSB identified numerous factors and made recommendations to improve crew training ( which has been implemented ) and hardware/software modifications to the airplane . Aviation very much takes a " continuous improvement " view of things , trying to learn from every accident and to try to prevent the same thing from happening again . Based on what I 've seen , I doubt that this exact same scenario will play out again .
First and foremost you should always be looking at the turn coordinator to see what is going on and applying rudder as necessary . In your specific case ( if we want to discuss the physics ) , basically what your instructor is saying is that you are using the ailerons to bank ( turn ) the plane and the rudder to counteract the propeller 's yawing moment . The rudder is simply counteracting the P-Factor : the inputs will change depending on how steeply you are banking . If opposite rudder is called for on your ball , then step on it . Perhaps more importantly , what your instructor is actually stressing is during your crosswind , base and final turns you should really be paying attention to staying coordinated . A great deal of Stall - > Spin - > Crashes happen in the pattern as planes slow down and dirty up , thus it 's extremely important in the pattern to watch your speed and your turn coordination .
Normal autopilots do n't . They expect all systems to work correctly , and in case of failure of a single control surface they will stubbornly command actions which are no longer possible . For them , thrust is only for controlling the vertical speed , and the application of asymmetric thrust for yaw control is not possible . There are experimental autopilots which compare the result of their actions with a number of pre-programmed scenarios and select for their next commands the scenario which agrees best with reality . These really do what you assumed , but the specific scenario must have been considered before so the specific control laws are part of the code . Computers small enough to be carried on airplanes became powerful enough to do this in real time maybe 20 to 25 years ago , but I am not aware that regular autopilots of airliners have this capability even today . It is , however , used for unmanned vehicles .
Turning on the autopilot is generally a single button or switch , but with a caveat . That big panel with the altitude selector , heading bug , nav options , etc programs the flight director , which is most likely enabled prior to even taking off and pre-programmed with your initial altitude leveloff , departure heading , etc. . While hand flying the pilot not flying who is operating the radios will update the flight director settings as your ATC instructions vary . This is generally updating altitude , heading and engaging nav . When it is time to let Otto fly , at that point it is just a single button to slave the autopilot to the flight director .
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
Assuming that thrust is entirely in the direction of travel and the flight path angle is constant , the Lift is equal to the weight times the cosine of the flight path angle : $ L = W \ cos ( \ gamma ) $ For small $ \ gamma $ , $ \ cos ( \ gamma ) \ approx 1 $ E.g. for a flight path angle of 10 degrees , the error introduced by the approximation is ~ 1.5 % For unaccelerated climb , the sum of all forces in the along path direction cancel each other out : $ T-D-W \ sin ( \ gamma ) = 0 $ The gradient is $ \ tan ( \ gamma ) $ . Again , for small angles , $ \ sin ( \ gamma ) \ approx \ tan ( \ gamma ) $ From there it is a small step to see that the calculation suggested by your colleague is acceptable for unaccelerated climbs at small flight path angles .
Military aircraft takeoff with afterburner when it is safer to do so with an exception - carrier pilots always light their cans while taking off ( and also when the pilot wants to show off , but lets leave it at that ) . The main consideration for using after burner in operational land based aircraft is the available runway length . When the aircraft is loaded heavily with ordnance , the runway required may be more depending on other factors ( like OAT etc ) . In this case , it is better to go for afterburner takeoff . For example , <URL> specifically states : 3.6 Takeoff 3.6.6 Make an afterburner takeoff anytime the computed MIL power takeoff roll exceeds 50 percent of the available runway . The same is true for <URL> : 3.7 Takeoff 3.7.2 ... For single ship takeoffs , if the single ship computed military power takeoff distance exceeds one-half of the available runway , takeoff using afterburner . Another reason the pilots do it is to check the systems - it is better to check the afterburners on ground rather than finding any problems ( like intermittent afterburner ) in air . Of course in case of naval aircraft , the afterburners are on till the aircraft clears the ship . Also , as @J örg pointed out , people upload videos that look ' cool ' - hence the impression that they always use afterburners rather than the boring military power takeoff .
It 's tough to tell based on your question , but I think you are talking about an inspection due to an over-G reported on a flight either by the pilot or the flight control system post-flight report . Maintainers will do inspections of known stress points on the aircraft to look for breaks , cracking or loosened parts and then declare it safe for flight or fix anything out of tolerance . For a low level over-G , this could be pulling a few panels . For higher level over-Gs it could be 8 hours worth of work
If I wish to downgrade my software 's design assurance level ( DAL ) from Level A to Level C , what do I need to do ? DAL level A software is software which , if it fails , may have " catastrophic " results , defined as " Failure may cause multiple fatalities , usually with loss of airplane . " DAL level C , " Failure significantly reduces the safety margin or significantly increases crew workload . May result in passenger discomfort ( or even minor injuries ) . " So , to move your software from DAL level A to DAL level C , you 'll have to reduce the responsibility of your software . Your software 's operation or failure to operate can not : result in passenger major injury or fatality produce a large negative impact on safety or performance of the aircraft reduce the ability of the crew to operate the aircraft due to physical distress or higher workload ( though significant increases in workload is acceptable at Level C ) At most , your software 's operation or failure to operate may : Significantly reduce safety margins Significantly increase crew workload Result in passenger discomfort or minor injury If you can change your software , or change your customer 's use of the software ( ie , can not be used or installed as part of a safety critical control system ) , then the certifying authorities may allow your software to be certified at Level C . What are the benefits and drawbacks of doing this ? There are only 62 objectives that have to be met , and of those only 8 have to be verified by someone independent of the person who implemented the code that falls under that objective . While the number of objectives is only reduced a little ( 71 vs 62 ) , the number requiring independent verification is cut by over 75 % from 33 to 8 . This significantly reduces the amount of work required to meet certification requirements , mostly in traceability . The major drawback is that your software can not be used or incorporated into systems which require a higher level of compliance . So if your software is designed to control actuators and is currently certified to Level A , you might find that it 's being used to control flight surfaces on some planes . The move to Level C may , in that case , not require any software changes at all . If you stop performing the full traceability , tests , and meeting objectives with independence at Level A , and only perform those necessary for Level C , then your release under this new system will necessarily only be certified under Level C . The software can no longer be used to control flight surfaces , but if a new plane comes out with electronically adjustable air nozzles in the passenger compartment , it may be eligible for inclusion there where failure would , at worst , cause passenger discomfort and increase crew workload managing complaints about air vents being misdirected or opened/closed when the opposite is desired . If your software is an autopilot , though , then it will never be used if it does n't meet Level A . In this case , there 's no way to change your software or process to a lower level and expect it to be used - the usage of the software defines the level to which it must comply . In most cases , the usage will drive which level the software must be certified to , and there 's no real way ( or reason ) for you to change your level . It would cease to be useful software at the wrong level .
Yes , the required obstacle clearance is based on this minimum performance : Cross the departure end of the runway ( DER ) at at least 35ft AGL ( that 's above the DER , not above the airport reference elevation ) Climb to 400ft above the DER before turning Maintain a climb of at least 200ft per nautical mile ( FPNM ) until reaching minimum IFR altitude The minimum IFR altitude is 1000ft above obstacles , or 2000ft in mountainous areas . This is explained in detail in <URL> ( starting on page 1-14 ) . The FAA carries out an assessment to see if the airport needs a specific procedure ( ODP or SID ) and if it does n't then the standard clearance performance above applies : If an aircraft may turn in any direction from a runway within the limits of the assessment area and remain clear of obstacles that runway passes what is called a diverse departure assessment , and no ODP is published .
Flight levels use <URL> or pressure altitude , while altitude references <URL> or local pressure adjusted to sea level pressure . Altitudes are used at low levels and flight levels at higher levels . The transition between altitudes and flight levels differs by country and is generally just above the highest obstacle in that country . In the US the transition altitude/level is 18,000 ' / FL180 . Some countries transition as low as 5000 ' / FL050 and the transition altitude/level may vary from airport to airport . In the altitudes knowing accurate elevations relative to the ground and obstacles is important for collision avoidance and this is the reason QNH is used here . Each airport will report QNH and controllers will issue the current QNH as needed . You need to know the QNH for obstacle / terrain avoidance but you need to be using the same QNH as those around you for aircraft vertical separation . Above all terrain/obstacles the only thing we care about is vertical separation , so we no longer need to know about the actual pressure and instead use a standard reference pressure , QNE / 1013.25 hPa / 29.92 " Hg . Note that flight levels drop the last two zeros of the corresponding altitude and so 30,000 is FL300 , not FL30000 . When checking in with a controller , FL300 would be pronounced . It is also worth noting that an altimeter can not actually determine altitude . It can only determine pressure ( technically local static pressure compared to a reference pressure ) . It converts this pressure to an altitude using a calibrated non-linear scale . To illustrate the point , look at this map of 500 mb heights : 500 mb correlates to 5500 m or 18,000 ft in a standard atmosphere . In a real atmosphere this height varies and is not actually level . An airplane flying " level " at FL180 from LAX to NYC last night will have actually descended almost 300 m while indicating a constant altitude . These deviations in true altitude from indicated altitude are acceptable , however , since they effect everyone equally in the same locality and separation is maintained .
The procedure used would depend on which information is conflicting/unreliable ( and of course the aircraft type ) . With one or more unreliable airspeed indications ( which is one of the more critical ones ) , the initial action is NOT to start troubleshooting/figuring out which indicator is " the correct one " , but to ensure safe speed/flight path by other means . The initial actions on Boeing aircraft is to disconnect automatics ( auto throttle , autopilot , flight director ) and control the aircraft given memorized combinations of pitch and thrust . With the aircraft under control , and when directed by the checklist , you start analyzing the situation , to see if you can rectify/isolate the faulty source . If a reliable source can not be determined , the aircraft continues to be flown by pitch/thrust settings given in the manual ( based on altitude , if known , weight , flaps/gear , desired vertical profile etc ) . In the case of unreliable altitude , in case you ca n't determine a reliable source , you can typically use radio altitude below 2 ' 500 ft. A big caveat is that if the transponder is set to use an unreliable static pressure source , the altitude that ATC sees on secondary radar will also be unreliable . An example of this was seen in the Aeroperú 603 accident , where the aircraft took off , with the static ports taped over , and ATC was asked to assist with altitude and speed information : <URL> - <URL> Erroneous airspeed/altitude indications often imply each other , as an unreliable static pressure source will affect both .
What does your POH/AFM says ? Ignoring winds and other factors , it depends on effective runway length , not just runway length . If you have a runway long ( really long ) enough , you can takeoff/land in either direction . As mentioned <URL> : ... advantage or disadvantage of a sloped runway is that a 1 % runway gradient -- an increase or decrease in altitude of 10 ' for every 1000 ' of runway length -- is equivalent to a 10 % increase or decrease in effective runway length ... Example : Runway length is 1500 ' with 3 % up-slope gradient Landing uphill on it will give us an effective runway length of almost 2000 ' ( 1500 ' x 1.3 = 1950 ' ) . Landing downhill on it will give us an effective runway length of just over 1000 ' ( 1500 ' x 0.7 = 1050 ' ) . Just for reference , the runway ( 6 : uphill ; 24 : downhill ) at Lukla Airport has 12 % gradient and is 1500 ' long . Effective Runway Lengths ( using the formula above ) Hence , hypothetically speaking , if runway 24 is 48,400 ' long with no wind , A380 <URL> takeoff too .
Another Airbus <URL> mentions ( on page 188 , section 5-2-1 ) full load of A380 as and rate of loading and unloading as From this calculation best case is they can finish unloading and loading within just above 30 minutes . However this is not possible since there will be some delay due to the fact that there are other things to be done during turn around that may disrupt exchange of cargo . Also other services such as cleaning need to be done during turn around time . Airbus provides 2 scenarios for turn around time - 90 minutes if both decks are serviced at the same time . - 140 minutes if both decks are serviced only from the main deck .
The FAA has <URL> disturbances into four levels : Level 1 : Disruptive behavior - suspicious or threatening Level 2 : Physically abusive behavior Level 3 : Life-threatening behavior Level 4 : Attempted or actual breach of the flight deck These are also ICAO standard classifications from the restricted Doc 9811 , according to <URL> . I 'm not sure who came up with them first . That IATA document also provides sample things that might be considered to be each level .
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
Your question appears to assume that thrust reversers are an acceptable way of keeping an aircraft from sliding off a slippery runway . While this may be true in rare cases , generally speaking you would NOT want to use reverse thrust to avoid skidding off a runway as that typically would exacerbate the problem . Consider the following scenario : you have an icy runway and a strong crosswind from the right . As you start the takeoff roll , the airplane begins drifting left . You apply right rudder to correct , and the aircraft heading moves to the right of the runway direction . If you resolve the engines thrust vector into it 's components relative to the runway centerline , you have most of the thrust propelling you down the runway , a much lesser amount propelling you toward the right side of the runway . Lets say the left drift continues in spite of the engine thrust vector driving the aircraft to the right side of the runway , and you decide to abort the takeoff using reverse thrust . Thus , the thrust vector relative to the runway centerline will slow the aircraft . However the thrust vector 90 & deg ; to the runway centerline will be toward the left side of the runway , which when added to your leftward drift will likely put you off the left side of the runway . If you Google " tower air 747 crash " you 'll see a number of entries concerning just such a scenario and the result . I found <URL> to be the most instructive , although I do not wholly agree with the conclusions or with the narrative of what happened ( a friend of mine was in the jumpseat right behind the captain , and I flew as a f.o. with that captain ) . An obvious answer to your question is to never get yourself into such a serious situation . Can you wait for better conditions ? Is another runway available ? But if you MUST use a slippery runway for either takeoff or landing ( or have already foolishly committed yourself ) , remember that if a runway is that slippery , it 's feasible to continue down the runway in a manner that your course ( the runway direction ) does n't match your heading . If the captain of the Tower Air flight had elected to do that , he might not have had the accident he did , or he might have had a much more serious accident . Tough call !
end question
start question
Can flight crew book tickets for themselves , on the same flight ?
Since the pilot wo n't check-in their flight bag , the booking will be cancelled ( no-show ) . They wo n't board with the passengers , so they wo n't be counted , same end result . Answer is no . Many airlines now prohibit active duty ( including relief ) flight-crew from mingling with the passengers . Long gone are the days of the pilot walking up and down the plane . That would be the most expensive shower in the history of showers . A first-class Emirates long haul flight is easily $ 24,000 ( SFO-DXB ) . <URL> are beds for a reason , a shower goes against the idea of sleeping ( may not be a universal thing though ) . But I would n't want to see my flight-crew in a robe going to bed after a nice warm shower . Unless the robe comes with epaulets .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
Short answer : no . Longer answer : you would need to design a carrier craft that could store large quantities of ammunition in safe conditions - enough to supply more than one fighter , perhaps several times . Having a lot of live ammo on board would increase the chances of something going off at a bad time . To continue : this ammunition then needs to be transferred to the fighter , while in flight at speeds of what , say 200 kts ? How do we do this ? Perhaps some sort of pneumatic tube would work , but only for the small stuff and you would have to make sure it would arrive safely . Transferring whole cassettes of rounds or bombs would need some other means . OK , so let 's say we transfer the ammo with some sort of failsafe on ( pins , etc. ) . So now the fighter pilot needs some means of removing the failsafe in order to use the stuff . Perhaps the only feasible solution would be a carrier aircraft that could take the fighter on board while refuelling and rearming . That is what they built the Akron zeppelin for in the 1930s ( Wikipedia link : <URL> ) . Do n't think it would be feasible with modern fighters , though .
I 'll answer for the US . As long as there 's no official slot program , airlines can schedule however much they want to an airport , beyond what it should be capable of handling . Now that does n't mean ATC lets a free-for all happen . Hopefully , various traffic management units are on it and aware of how much demand is scheduled and already airborne into the airport/region/area that there 's too much demand , and will implement various flow control programs to moderate the volume to what can be accepted into a specific sector ( Certain airways can get super busy and require these types of actions ) , or airport . These control programs will either slow aircraft farther out from their destination , hold , or give small to longer delays on the ground , depending on how over scheduled or limitations of weather at the destination . [ Begin edit poriton ] Since the other part of the question was n't there when I first answered , I 'll answer now . Slot controls vary heavily from airport to airport . In the US , LGA , LGB , DCA , SNA , and at times JFK are slot controlled , with a few others threatened to go to slots due to how many delays they impact the system ( SFO , EWR , and ORD ) . How each airport deals with the slot allocation is different due to how they got slot controls . DCA is controlled partly through congress , LGA and SNA are restricted due to noise controls . In the US , once an airline gets a slot , often times it 's considered transferable property , so airlines can sell them to each other if needed . Now if a slot is n't used and goes back to the airport , the airport can put it up for bid , or allow applications for it , again depending on how their program is structured . AT DCA , some slots are transferable , some require an act of congress to change or modify , and some can only be used for certain routes or types of cities .
The pilot can not just sit down in the flight engineer station . First there is a different FAA flight engineer certificate that the pilot needs to obtain . Secondly , the pilot would need to go through the airline 's training program for that station . Granted , a pilot who has flown that airplane before should quickly get those done .
The exact number of air marshals is not public information , and they certainly do n't disclose what flights they fly on or other operational details . However , the number <URL> to be on the order of ~ 3,000-4 ,000 and reports indicate the number has decreased somewhat since then . All of them are , of course , not on duty 24/7/365 . There are around <URL> a day in the US alone , but only around 28,000 are commercial passenger flights , where air marshals are presumably most likely ( hopefully there 's not a need for air marshals on military flights , for instance ) . So for some back of the envelope math , let 's conservatively say there are 3,500 air marshals who all work five days a week , they all work alone ( in reality , they appear to work at least in pairs ) , and they somehow manage to average protecting four flights a day . Even with these conservative assumptions , that would only be 5000 flights/day covered by air marshals . From this , it should be clear that there can not possibly be an air marshal on every commercial flight in the US . The President of the Air Marshal Association/CWA ( their union ) , not entirely a disinterested party , <URL> : " There are around 30,000 commercial flights per day over the U.S. , " says Casaretti . " If you were to attempt to place a team of just two FAMs on each flight , it would require an agency of over 75,000 FAMs ( accounting for training and days off ) . FAMs cover a very small percentage of commercial flights . " Which flight air marshals get on is determined by a computer program that assesses the probability of threat based on the aircraft , departure and destination cities , as well as the amount of fuel on board . This is the threat matrix that comes out of the missions operation center . The TSA will not release statistics on the number of air marshals . TSA 's Pascarella acknowledges only " many thousands . " But Biles estimates that there are approximately 3,300 FAMs and of those , 34 % are filling ground assignments in training , operations and management . " We call them ' chair marshals , ' riding out their career in management , " says Biles . That leaves 66 % of the workforce to perform in-flight security duties . " If one accounts for vacations , sick leave , medical leave and days off , some air marshals working in operations have told me that this accounts for less than one half percent of all U.S.-flagged aircraft being covered by federal air marshals , " he says .
Here in the US you can get your <URL> but that is a pretty heavily limited license , your basic VFR PPL will require at least <URL> . You should note that this is flight time which is generally tracked on the hobbs meter ( positive oil pressure or master switch on depending on configuration ) . There is a lot of other time in ground school , flight planing , pre-flight checks , and waiting for weather to pass that you will undoubtedly run into . Looks like <URL> and thats day only . The <URL> . These hours are for <URL> . An instrument rating , which is not a separate license but an additional rating on the pilot certificate , will take more hours . Some countries limit night flying privileges without an instrument rating , and if you intend on doing any serious flying its a good idea to have . As mentioned by <URL> in the comments , not all licenses are valid everywhere . Some are recognized with limitations , and some can be transferred depending on what you are trying to do . Some privileges may be recognized if you are flying to an area to visit etc. . Other situations may require more training or filing different types of flight plans . Almost everyone is on ICAO format these days .
Looking at the route your plane took , this low altitude flight was likely to avoid the polar jetstream . This is a band of wind that blows west to east in roughly the area the first half of your flight was flying through . It exists mostly between 30,000 and 39,000 feet altitude , and can range from about 60mph to over 200mph . I suspect that the low altitude was to keep the plane below this jetstream , avoiding the headwind and fuel and time costs that flying through it would create . To answer the other part of your question , as I mentioned in the comments , weight should n't have been an issue because the plane you were in ( a 777-300ER ) , has more than enough engine power to maintain a higher altitude , even fully weighted .
Both log time , they just log it as different things . This is similar as a student and instructor logging time , but for different roles . The captain is the pilot-in-command and thus logs ' PIC ' , the F/O is second-in-command and logs ' SIC ' . The pilot who is tasked with controlling the plane is called ' PF ' or " pilot flying " , and the other is called ' PNF ' or " pilot not flying " , or " pilot monitoring " . This does n't affect who 's PIC and who 's SIC though , and if I understand correctly , it 's not generally logged who 's actually flying .
There certainly are similar routes - the Niagara Scenic Falls route , given in FAR <URL> comes to mind . ( <URL> . ) Comply with the following procedures when conducting flight over the area described in paragraph ( a ) of this section : ( 1 ) Fly a clockwise pattern ; ( 2 ) Do not proceed north of the Rainbow Bridge ; ( 3 ) Prior to joining the pattern , broadcast flight intentions on frequency 122.05 Mhz , giving altitude and position , and monitor the frequency while in the pattern ; ( 4 ) Use the Niagara Falls airport altimeter setting . Contact Niagara Falls Airport Traffic Control Tower to obtain the current altimeter setting , to facilitate the exchange of traffic advisories/restrictions , and to reduce the risk of midair collisions between aircraft operating in the vicinity of the Falls . If the Control Tower is closed , use the appropriate Automatic Terminal Information Service ( ATIS ) Frequency ; ( 5 ) Do not exceed 130 knots ; ( 6 ) Anticipate heavy congestion of VFR traffic at or above 3,500 feet MSL ; and ( 7 ) Use caution to avoid high-speed civil and military aircraft transiting the area to or from Niagara Falls Airport .
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
This is what I could find . I looked on the Civil Aviation Authority 's website and found this article . <URL> Families , children and infants The seating of children close by their parents or guardians should be the aim of airline seat allocation procedures for family groups and large parties of children . Young children and infants who are accompanied by adults , should ideally be seated in the same seat row as the adult . Children and accompanying adults should not be separated by more than one aisle . Where this is not possible , children should be separated by no more than one seat row from accompanying adults . This is because the speed of an emergency evacuation may be affected by adults trying to reach their children . Whenever a number of infants and children are travelling together the airline should make every effort to ensure that they can be readily supervised by the responsible accompanying adults . From what I read , it does n't look like there is a law set in stone , but instead it is recommended by the CAA to be put in regular practice by airlines . If there was a law then Ryanair would have been in serious trouble for charging people extra money to sit next to their kids . <URL>
The simplest thing is to ask someone local where runups are usually done : the FBO , Ground Control or another pilot . If you ca n't find out then you can do them anywhere you like as long as it 's safe . Some airports have specific runup areas but they are n't always obvious . For example , KPDK has runup areas at both ends of taxiway A , they 're shown on the <URL> as ' bulges ' in the taxiway but they are n't labelled . You might notice them when you land and taxi but you might not . I 've circled one of the runup areas in red here : <URL> If there are no runup areas , the ' default ' location is the one you remember from training : on the taxiway just before reaching the runway , angled into the wind . If the taxiway is wide enough , you can move to the edge so that other aircraft can pass you if they 're ready before you . That 's very common and it 's what many pilots will expect you to do , even if you have to block the taxiway for a couple of minutes . This is where you have to use some judgement : if you know that you need to take your time on runups - perhaps it 's an unfamiliar aircraft , or you 've just had maintenance done and you 're double-checking everything - then you might look for another spot where you wo n't be in the way . Blocking other aircraft from reaching the runway is always a possibility , but at airports with a lot of GA traffic - and especially a lot of flight training - it 's common and just something to be expected . That does n't mean you should take forever doing your checks and of course some other pilots will always get annoyed at even minor delays , but if the only safe place to do runups is the taxiway then just do them there and the others will wait . Another option is to do runups on the ramp or before entering the <URL> so that you do n't block other aircraft anywhere . That 's especially important at airports with scheduled commercial flights because they usually have very precise departure times and getting stuck behind another aircraft for even a few minutes could be an issue . If you 're in that environment , then you should definitely check with Ground Control what they want you to do . But be careful about doing runups on the ramp because of people and vehicles moving around . Also be wary about doing runups a long way from the runway : during a long taxi you might change something ( e.g. the mixture or fuel controls ) and then forget to reset it for takeoff . The one place you should never do runups is on the runway itself . Sitting there for several minutes blocking the runway for landing traffic and unable to see final approach behind you is n't a good position to put yourself in . Finally , avoiding blowing debris into other aircraft should be simple : just look around you , and do n't position the aircraft so that your prop blast is going somewhere it should n't .
For a jetliner , the ' why early ' is to test the auto flight system . Turning on the F/D also turns on the <URL> ( FMA ) and displays the armed modes . So it 's an early check that all systems are go . <URL> From a 777 manual , any fault will be indicated on the FMA as it reads above . Here are the flow checks pertaining to the F/D and FMA during the cockpit setup : <URL>
Say you are flying on a route that requires an even level , but you would like an odd level such as FL350 . The phraseology to use would be Request FL350 The rest is up to ATC . Depending on local agreements and the current situation , we may be able to grant you the level right away , maybe we need to pick up the phone and talk to downstream sectors or maybe we ca n't offer the level at all . In any case , there is no harm in asking . Regarding the part of your question that mentions weather , if you are requesting a level change because of extreme weather ( such as moderate/severe turbulence or icing ) , state so in your request . We will then handle your request with higher priority , and you are more likely to get the different level . Request FL350 due to moderate icing
Having flight training has no effect at all on your visa status . It 's actually the other way around : your visa status can determine <URL> . But you can definitely get flight training with an H1B . And flying has no special impact on your job : how you choose to spend your free time is none of your employer 's business . There could be some very specific scenarios where flight training and work intersect , e.g. if your company is in the aviation sector you might be able to get them to pay for training . Or if you 're a very senior executive at a very large company then the Board of Directors might have concerns about you spending your time on ' risky ' activities . But otherwise , flying has nothing at all to do with your work .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
The 747-8 has three packs , and it is feasible to complete the flight with one of them inoperative ( in case of aircraft with two packs , cabin altitude can be maintained win any one ) . The following is taken from the <URL> : <URL> Screengrab from <URL> As can be seen , flight is possible with some limitations . In case of a failure in-flight , the flight crew would follow the applicable checklist and decision will be taken whether to continue the flight or not ( as altitude is limited ) . In case of failure , the appropriate warning message will be displayed ( the pack , sensor , valve etc. )
It 's on <URL> : <URL> RF-85655 's Open Skies flights over the United States since the beginning of 2017 Here you can see <URL> over Washington . Two of the recent routes <URL> . One of them flying as low as 3,800 feet . <URL>
Flight crew training facilities have a big pool with a mock aircraft hull with slides and rafts . Real aircraft are rarely used for training . It 's much cheaper to build a fake aircraft interior into the building and use that than to tie up an aircraft that should be making money . It also lets the instructors simulate more dangerous scenarios , like smoke in the cabin , safely .
end question
start question
Could future airplanes use rockets to recover plane and/or prevent crash landings ?
They could but there really is no reason to do so . Most aircraft <URL> and are perfectly controllable in such situations ( provided they can actuate the control surfaces ) . As for the situation you propose there are a few issues with it , First off , <URL> is not <URL> and ca n't just be burned in the same way . The JATO engines are a bit different than the rocket assist that Space-X is using ( although the principal is similar ) . For takeoff the Jato engines help add to the totally available thrust and allow the plane to get off the ground in a shorter distance . The rockets are ( I believe ) single use and provide a very quick burst of thrust . As for the loss of control this depends on what causes the loss of control and how the rockets are affixed to the airframe . In the case of the Alaska airlines flight you reference the jack screw forced the tail into a position and prevented it from moving , this put the plane in an unrecoverable dive that would only be exacerbated by rocket engines unless you could control the angle at which they were pointed . Again in the outlined case you would need to be able to counteract the full surface deflection of a control surface . In essence you would need the kind of thrust control that <URL> . Now to answer the broad question of " could rocket thrusters be used to bring a disabled aircraft down softly " the short answer is yes . They could be added for such a task but the toll they take on the plane would make it a hard sell to the airlines . In short the use case is small and the added weight cuts into the profitability of the flight ( you need a lot of jet fuel and heavy thrusters to pull this off ) . On top of all that the system would have to be built and certified for use , a task that should not be taken lightly . In the end you get a safety system that has a small use case and a big impact on the aircraft . Perhaps the <URL> can learn from <URL> is the use of parachutes . The last and somewhat debatable point ( common to all safety systems ) is when do you actually turn it on ? What is your definition of unrecoverable ( yes this varies ) ? Cirrus teaches people to basically always pull the chute in an emergency . Are you going to teach pilots to to always trigger this rocket decent system even if the plane may be recoverable ? What if you run out of fuel before getting to the ground and now you are to low to recover from the rocket assisted decent ?
It helps to know the objective of both ICAO and IATA to understand when which code is used . <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) is a UN-body which focusses on international harmonization of civil aviation regulations . ICAO codes are used for " official " purposes such as Air Traffic Control ; E.g. flight plans use ICAO codes for airports and airline flight identification . <URL> ( International Air Transport Association ) is a trade association that focusses on making air traffic businesses safe , secure , reliable and efficient . IATA codes are mainly used for ticketing . E.g. travel itineraries use IATA codes for airports and IATA flight numbers .
In the early days of aviation it was simply easier to have the gear fixed . The landing gear adds drag , but so does <URL> and <URL> . Airplanes generally did not fly very fast or far , so the drag from the landing gear ( and that other stuff ) was not a big issue . The first design with retractable gear <URL> . Since then , retractable gear has been a design decision each airplane must make . Retracting the gear into the airplane allows for a cleaner form , which reduces drag . However , this is at the expense of added weight . The retract system , which is usually hydraulic , must be added , and the plane must be designed to make room for the gear somewhere at least mostly inside the aircraft . The plane must also be designed to handle situations where some or all of the gear does not extend properly . For planes that need to be fast and/or efficient , retractable gear is worth the reduction in drag . The additional drag has to be supported by the structure as well . Aircraft with retractable gear will have a maximum speed at which the gear can be extended . Even gear with proper fairings would add significant drag at the speeds airliners fly at . This would be much more critical at supersonic speeds . In these cases the weight of reinforcing the gear could be even higher than the weight of the retracting system . Particularly smaller general aviation planes tend to not have retractable gear . The retract system adds extra weight and complexity ( and therefore cost ) , which will be fairly significant in a small plane . Fixed gear is simple and can be designed to minimize drag as much as possible . These planes do not typically need to fly fast or have large range , so the added drag is less of an issue . Other small planes do have retractable gear , which will allow for greater speed and range . The PA-32 type shown in <URL> was later produced in a <URL> as well .
No , there are no safety features . Only safety procedures on the flight deck and on the ground . Basically it all boils down to that nobody may go near any aircraft ( jet or prop ; they are both similarly dangerous ) that may have engines running . When starting the engines , the pilots first turn on the beacon ( the red flashing lights on the belly and tail ) , then check the ground crew has left and only then start the engine ( s ) . And similarly upon landing , the pilots shut the engines down , wait a bit to let them spool down and turn off the beacons ; then the ground crew should ask ( via radio or the wired intercom connected to a socket at the nose ) whether the engines are indeed off and only then they may start working . Since start-up normally only happens after push-back , so away from the terminal , there is usually no risk then . Upon arrival however the ground crew needs to come to the aircraft relatively quickly and insert chocks to the wheels , so the correct procedures are important . <URL> where ground worker was injured because the procedures were not followed ( he was coming from the rear , so he was only blown away , not sucked in ) . In that incident , the engines were at idle . They are still very dangerous in that case . I found an Airbus document which shows danger areas , for A320 with CFM56 engines , at idle as : suction danger 2.2 m ( 7.2 ft ) from engines ( semicircle forward and to the sides of the engine and back to 1.5 m behind the inlet ) and exhaust danger to 55m ( 180ft ) behind the nozzles with 30 ° spread with exhaust velocity exceeding 105km/h ( 65mi/h ) for 17m ( 55ft ) aft of the nozzles . At full power the suction area grows to 5.9 m ( 19.5 ft ) radius and the exhaust danger to 275m ( 900ft ) with velocity over 105km/h down to 150m ( 500ft ) aft .
Besides the main points you mentioned , I can think of a couple things , the first is sort of related to your point # 1 . Airplanes are designed to be easy to service . Cars are less so . Cars only have a few very expensive parts , mainly the drivetrain ( engine and transmission ) . If either of those needs to be replaced in an older car , it can easily cost more than the car is worth . Airplanes are much more complex , and have a larger number of expensive components . The engines of most airliners are designed to be removed relatively quickly . Although the engines tend to be the most expensive part , replacing an engine is nowhere near the total cost of the airplane , and there is generally a good pool of engines out there for parts and replacement ( just look at how many JT8D engines are still in service ) . In GA aircraft , it is easier for a repair to cost more than the airplane is worth . However , the more comprehensive maintenance required on aircraft means that this kind of repair is less likely to be needed . Also , while its usually easy to go out and replace a broken car with a comparable new or used one , the aircraft market is n't as large . New aircraft tend to be much more expensive , and the used market is more limited . Another reason is that airplanes can have more unique qualities than cars . For example , there are original 737s flying in Canada because they are able to operate from gravel runways . There are just more combinations of sizes and capabilities in airplanes than with cars . Many times , it is only economical to replace those aircraft ( both for the builder and the buyer ) in very long cycles .
Two reports are published and everybody is free to believe whichever they choose . According to ICAO rules the ( investigation board1 of ) country of occurrence ( or country of operator if it happens over international waters ) leads the investigation and ( investigation boards of ) country of operator , country of aircraft registration and country of aircraft manufacture are asked to take part in the investigation2 . So it is expected that the investigators from country where the accident happened will publish the official report . But some investigators may choose to publish their own report if agreement about the probable cause is not reached . Since even the official report does not have any legal effect ( the investigation boards do n't have any legal power ) , so it does not really matter much . An accident report identifies factors that contributed to the accident and suggests improvements to safety practices to reduce risk of the accident reoccurring . But whether the recommendations are implemented depends on aviation authorities3 , which are separate governmental bodies with legislative power . And they decide which recommendations they will incorporate into the legal rules . Of course each such authority only has power over that country . So while the accident is investigated just once ( even when multiple reports are published , the investigation is joint effort , just the investigators do n't agree on the conclusion ) , the rules may be implemented differently in different countries . ICAO tries to coordinate , but it does not have any legal powers itself either . So it is up to the aviation authorities to choose which report they believe more . Assigning blame is explicitly not purpose of the investigation according to ICAO rules . A criminal trial or civil litigation may be started about the accident by complaint from police , state attorney or damaged person , in which case the investigation report will likely appear as expertise in the court , but if there is not agreement between the investigators , it is again up to the court to decide which explanation it believes most . Finally , the investigators not agreeing is rare in practice . Usually the investigation continues until they get something they can agree on ; for several years if needed . Suspected intentional crashes by pilot ( which is both cases you mention ) seem to be the main exception as there may be political reasons why the leading investigators ( from the same country the pilots were ) do n't want to accept that resolution . 1Investigation board in USA is NTSB , in Canada TSB ( the most rigorous investigation board in the world ( or at least they very carefully collect and report even the smallest incidents , see <URL> ) ) , in UK AAIB , in France BEA etc. . 2It is not strictly necessary , but it is the usual setup . The country of occurrence handles most investigation on site , country of registration takes care of interviewing operator and maintenance personnel and country of manufacture cooperates with manufacturer on identifying mechanical damage and usually reads the FDR and CVR data as there are only a few labs in the world that do that . Plus some of the large investigation boards may be asked for additional help . And in politically sensitive cases like MH17 additional countries may be involved to reduce risk of manipulation with the results . 3Aviation authority in USA is FAA . In Europe there is EASA , which coordinates the regulations , and separate authorities in each country that carry out the actual oversight .
If your definition of drone is any remote control aircraft freely available to consumers , then the answer is yes , but highly unlikely . <URL> Its very unlikely , but it is possible . First , I 'd like to point out that Radio Controlled Aircraft ( RC Aircraft ) have been available to consumers since at least the late 1950s . Hobbists build RC aircraft all the time , and when I was a kid I built my own RC aircraft that was much bigger than most commercially available " drones " . To focus on drones alone misses a big slice of the pie . RC aircraft are sometimes built as 1/4 scale models of the original aircraft and can weigh 100lbs or more , so imagine a remote control aircraft that is 25 % the size of the real aircraft . So , the potential has always been there for at least the last half a century for a remote control aircraft to have enough mass to potentially cause a serious collision with a real aircraft . Imagine if a couple of 18lbs geese took down the Flight 1549 , what would a 100 + lbs quarter scale RC Aircraft do . Personally , I 've never been too concerned with this because I 've flown both RC aircraft and real aircraft . It would be extremely hard for a drone or RC aircraft pilot to target an aircraft and hit it in its most vulnerable locations such as cockpit or engines . So , yes , its possible , but I would not lose any sleep over it .
consider if you Google a flight number you can see the flight status , imagine if the number was from a past crash , you might for a moment think the one you 're looking up had crashed <URL>
I think you are missing some physics knowledge , so let 's start from here : If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound <URL> is a compression wave that travels through air . Given a certain air temperature , the sound will travel at <URL> through the air . If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound means that the compression waves it is generating will remain behind the aircraft : image from <URL> will he be able to overtake his own sound and hear itself ? As you can see on the right picture , if the aircraft is travelling faster that the speed of sound , the compression waves it generated in the past will remain behind . If it would stop/slow down , the waves would then catch up with the plane and a person on board would be theoretically capable of hearing them .
In the UK a paramotor does not have to take off from an airfield . There is an explanation of the UK regulation of paramotors on the <URL> website . You do need the landowner 's permission to take off , but you do n't need any type of pilot 's licence . You have to comply with the rules of the air ( the <URL> ) , as does any other flyer Taking off from an airfield that is being used by faster aircraft ( anything else with an engine is faster than a paramotor ) may be a bad idea !
AC is easier to produce with the engines , that act as generators . The engines have a rotating shaft that it is easily equipped with magnetic dipoles all around . Then , depending on the instrument , the current is either used directly or , by the use of converters , in DC form as not only it is easier to produce , it is also easier to convert . So electronic devices that uses 12 , 5 or 3V may contain their own voltage converter ( though this is less and less true with modern efficient switch-mode converters ) . If DC conversion was as much efficient as AC conversion , we would n't see high-voltage lines . Last but not least , it 's easier to switch , because the current is null twice per cycle . DC must be switched at full current , which is expensive and weight costly . ( thanks mins )
Neither technique is " preferable " - the assumption that one is superior to the other is one of the most common <URL> ( and over-simplifications ) in aviation . With some notable exceptions ( like the Ercoupe which is incapable of a slip and lands crabbed ) a proper crosswind landing should involve elements of both techniques . Crabbing Crabbing involves turning the nose into the wind so that some component of the aircraft 's thrust is counteracting the crosswind , allowing the aircraft 's ground track to align with the runway . Advantages Flying on final it is advantageous to crab into the wind : It is aerodynamically more favorable than a slip , and as the aircraft is kept coordinated it is more comfortable for passengers than a slip . Pilots often find a crab subjectively " easier " to maintain for extended periods of time compared to a slip : It does not require the pilot to maintain " crossed controls " , and it 's similar to how we maintain our course in other phases of flight ( you were probably crabbing into the wind on downwind just a few seconds ago , and on instrument approaches flying the localizer in a crab is analogous to tracking a VOR on the enroute portion of your flight ) . Disadvantages On touchdown however landing in a crab will put a side-load on the landing gear ( the aircraft is traveling along the runway centerline , but the gear is not aligned with that direction of travel ) . In extreme cases this can damage the tires , cause difficulty controlling the aircraft , and possibly even damage the landing gear assembly itself . " Kicking out the crab " to align the landing gear with the runway requires an abrupt control movement at low altitude ( generally not a good thing ) , and if done too early the crosswind will begin to blow the aircraft across the runway ( leading to a landing that 's not on the centerline , a side-load on the gear , and in the worst case an unintended departure from the runway surface . Slipping Slipping involves banking the aircraft so that some portion of the wing 's lift is counteracting the crosswind . Ordinarily the aircraft would tend to turn in the direction of the bank , so opposite rudder is applied to prevent the aircraft from turning and maintain the ground track parallel to the runway . Advantages Touching down on the runway a slip has the advantage of allowing you to align your landing gear with your direction of travel ( down the runway ) and avoid side-loading the gear . It also allows you to touch down on the upwind landing gear first which helps to stabilize the early roll-out , and positions your ailerons appropriately for taxiing with the crosswind . Disadvantages Slipping down final however is likely to make your passengers uncomfortable - the plane is slanted in one direction , the rudder is pushing the nose around in the other direction , and folks start to feel like their butt is sliding out of the seat . Aside from passenger comfort a slip is a terribly inefficient aerodynamic arrangement ( you 're essentially trying to fly sideways ) , and not a " normal " way to fly in other phases of flight . You may have difficulty estimating the aircraft 's performance and require power to maintain your glide path in this configuration . Combining the techniques So a crab is advantageous on final ( and flying an instrument approach ) , and a slip is advantageous on touchdown . It logically follows that the two techniques can be combined to provide the advantages of both : Crab down final ( or on the localizer ) . At some point transition into a slip . Exactly where you make this transition is pilot preference , but the transition should be smooth , simultaneously bringing the nose around to align with the runway while banking into the wind to counteract the crosswind component . Touch down in the slip . Complete your rollout with the appropriate crosswind aileron deflection , controlling your ground track with the rudder as needed to prevent weathervaning .
Yes , you could create an altimeter using a laser . And they exist ; See <URL> as one example . Laser altimeters , however , have a significant disadvantage over radar altimeters : They can be obscured by weather , like clouds and rain .
Yes you may , but you need to carry a <URL> while above 10,000 ft or in some types of <URL> and have it switched on . Which pretty much negates the stealth capabilities of your aircraft . To quote the linked AOPA page : According to 14 CFR 99.13 , no person may operate an aircraft into or out of the United States , or into , within , or across an ADIZ designated in subpart B unless operating a transponder with Mode C. Certain exemptions might apply to aircraft that were not originally certified with an engine-driven electrical system ; see 99.13 ( d ) .
There are a number of things to take into account : The distance between the runways ; can they be operated as independent runways ? This requires the centrelines to be more than 1035 meter apart . The traffic mix : is there constantly the same distance between landings or a large gap every now and then between a Heavy and a Medium that allows for one or two departures in between ? The runway entry and exit points . Can aircraft wait sufficiently short of the approach end to allow for a rapid departure when cleared for take-off ? Does the runway have high-speed exit taxi-ways at appropriate places for the landing traffic to vacate the runway quickly or is a slow 90 degree turn required ? In general , mixed mode operations can increase capacity significantly . For example the estimate for London Heathrow is that the traffic could increase from <URL> . But it is not a simple change . The requirements on ATC increase . For example , to monitor the parallel approaches , the update rate and accuracy of the surveillance system must meet higher standards than for single runway approaches . Also missed approach and emergency procedures need to be changed . And then there is an important noise issue ; in mixed mode operations , all four runway ends are continuously exposed to aircraft noise , while in dedicated operations the departure end of one runway and the arrival end of the other is not exposed . " Back of the envelope " estimation : For simplicity let 's assume traffic that is only Medium wake category with 3NM final approach separation at about 150 knots groundspeed . This would result in ~ 75 seconds intervals between aircraft passing the threshold for a pure landing runway , allowing for 48 landing per hour . In mixed mode , a line up and hold instruction would be given as soon as the landing aircraft is passed the numbers , so take-off will commence quickly after take-off clearance is given . The take-off clearance itself can be given as soon as the landing aircraft has vacated the runway , which should be about 60 seconds after it crossed the threshold . The take-off run itself is 30-40 seconds for B737 / A320 family aircraft . Let 's add about 20 seconds reaction and engine spool up time + margin . The next landing aircraft can cross the threshold after lift-off . The interval would be ~ 120 seconds between landing aircraft , resulting in 30 landings per hour . But this can be done on two runways at the same time , effectively increasing the throughput by about 25 % percent . The above schedule is very idealised with pure alternating take-off and landings and little margin for error . If put in practice it will probably result in too many go arounds due to late take-offs , but it gives good idea of the capacity increase that is possible .
I 'll assume you 're referring to astronaut helmets only because of their sunglasses-like reflective properties against visual light , not other wavelengths . There are some small efforts by manufacturers to add some reflective coatings to their windshields . The 787 has <URL> that had a gold-based heating film that also reflected infrared light - useful because a cockpit can heat up quickly . Military jets like the F-16 can have golden-tinted " Have Glass " cockpit windows but <URL> , not to filter visual light . There are several reasons visible-light reflective windshields are never seen . The first is that optically it 's very difficult to have reflection only go one way . Reflective coatings work well for sunglasses and some car windows because the light coming in can be assumed to be much brighter than the light going out , so glare from inside is not a huge problem . In an aircraft , where that tiny light on the horizon could be a several-ton aircraft closing in fast , the requirements for night vision are a bit higher . It should be noted that , for cars , reflective or tinted windshields are illegal in the USA for a number of reasons , including visibility . The second reason is that bright outside light is a solved problem , so we do n't have to resort to desperate measures like permanent reflective tinting . Sunglasses use by pilots , even though <URL> , is so widespread there 's literally a style of sunglasses named " aviators " and the FAA has a safety brochure on selecting sunglasses ( <URL> ) . If the pilot does n't like sunglasses , they can <URL> .
It is the larger aircraft that came first . Historically , the runway length ( and design ) of an airport has depended on the aircraft operating there ( among other things ) , though this is changing . For example , the <URL> : The main runways -- RWY 04/22 and RWY 13/31 -- were continually lengthened during post WW II operations which kept them in line with the demands of the aviation industry until the mid 1960s ... The runway required for the aircraft depends on the take-off weight and the lesser runway length restricts the payload or range . As a result , for economical operation , the runway needs to be longer . However , there are other constraints to consider : For large aircraft , the runway ( and taxiway ) width , apron and parking space are important considerations . In most cases , lengthening the runway will be easier than taking care of these other constraints . In the end , airports have to weigh the benefits of letting heavier aircraft operate against the resources required for runway lengthening . For major airports ( like Heathrow , for example ) , the cost of runway expansion will run into the billions . Unless the aircraft is going to be operated regularly ( which depends on how many airports it can land ) , there is no point in lengthening the runway in an airport . The economic operation of the aircraft has to be considered . For example , the A380 was designed around a 80m ' box ' , which the airlines had decided is the maximum size they can operate economically . A bigger aircraft does not mean more runway required . For example , the A380 requires ( slightly ) lesser runway compared to 747-400 . If it comes to that , aircraft requiring more runway can takeoff from smaller ones . For example , a Boeing Dreamlifter once <URL> runway ( it normally requires > 9000ft ) . The airports with longest runways have them for different reasons - the Qamdo Bamda Airport ( 5500m runway ) has a long runway due to its elevation ( > 4300m above MSL ) , while the Ramenskoye Airport as a long runway ( 5400m ) due to the aircraft operated there ; it was a test facility , for among other things , the Soviet Buran spacecraft .
If you are talking about externally carrying/deploying other aircraft , this has already been done with the B-52 ( albeit for testing purposes ) carrying the <URL> . I 'm not too sure about having an aircraft drop out of a cargo bay such as the C-130 . On a side note <URL> were used extensively during WW2 and some were capable of carrying light tanks . The gliders were usually towed behind larger bombers to give them the required altitude and speed . They were used because of their wooden construction allowing a stealthy approach due to the reduced radar signature .
Yes , they do . They are called Anti-Skid and they go from Mark I of 1948 , with simply an on-off switch triggered by wheel lock , till Mark V ( or at least that 's the last I 've seen ) , with quite complex control systems and sensors behind . The full details are a bit long to include them all here ( there are <URL> ) . For a brief overview , see <URL> from slide 12 till 18 .
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
end question
start question
Will wind tunnel modelling ever be completely replaced by computer models ?
The thing about computer models is that they are just that ; models . They can only approximate the actual behavior we see in the real world . Computer models are good for trying many different ideas and making predictions . It can be faster to create a new computational test than to make a physical model for a wind tunnel . But very detailed fluid dynamics calculations require large amounts of computing power , and this takes time and money as well . Wind tunnels can give much more detailed and accurate information , and are useful for validating the results given by the computers . The results do n't always match , which means that the computer models must be revised . This is where wind tunnels are still very useful . They can test an entire airplane in actual flow , where computing that detail across the whole aircraft would require long computations . Although a wind tunnel is also only a model of real conditions , it provides an actual body in actual flow conditions , which means the results can correlate much more closely to the real conditions being tested . Computational analysis is limited by assumptions , the chosen modeling method , and computational power . Until computing power reaches the point where it can run models that will truly match a wind tunnel 's accuracy and detail , there will still be a need to use wind tunnels to provide data .
Probably <URL> . Though , I should note , that there is some credible evidence that only one person was actually flying the plane and the other may have been forced into coming along . So you could probably consider it to have been stolen by one person , and that person appears to have not been remotely qualified to fly it . When it was leaving the plane seemed to meander down the taxiway to the runway , like the pilot had no idea what they were doing , and then it took off . It has n't been seen since , and most credible theories think it crashed in the ocean . But <URL> abound . A close second would probably be <URL> ( <URL> plane reference ) , also stolen in Africa . This time by an employee of the company who was , unfortunately , suicidal . He flew the plane around the airport for a few minutes demanding to speak to everyone from his boss , to his significant other to the president of the country . He eventually crashed it into a couple of other ATR 's the company owned . In reference to the " I 'm writing a story " line . I would suggest that a 727 probably is n't the optimal plane for a single person to steal . They 're older and difficult to manage on your own . I think a much better option would be a more modern aircraft , like an <URL> or a <URL> . They have avionics that allow for one person to reasonably fly the plane . Granted , they are very new and may be harder to steal . Probably the sweet spot between " new enough to be flyable by one person " and " old enough to have one just sitting around to be stolen " would be something like a <URL> or an <URL> . Both are still quite large , but a skilled pilot could probably operate one on their own if they needed to . In fact , <URL> .
Please let me assume that you wonder about control surface effectiveness rather than their efficiency . Both are closely related , but I prefer to address their effectiveness - doing what the pilot demands them to do . The aerodynamic forces are proportional to the dynamic pressure $ q $ of the flow , which is density times velocity squared , as in $ $ q = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ $ To create the same amount of lift at a higher altitude , the airplane has to fly faster , so in effect the forces can stay the same . Only the true air speed will be different , which helps to get where you want faster . The control surface effectivity remains unchanged . If we dig a little deeper , the atmosphere cools down with increasing altitude until you reach the <URL> . This cooling makes the engines <URL> but also <URL> of the flow around the aircraft . A lower Reynolds number translates into a thicker boundary layer , which will reduce the effectiveness of control surfaces a tiny bit and will reduce the range of their best effectivity . But this effect is so small that it has no practical consequence . Airliners fly at transsonic speeds at altitude , so now sonic effects become more pronounced . For the control surfaces this means that they will <URL> . For small corrections all is very similar to low level , slow flight , but if you need full deflections the control surfaces are indeed less effective at altitude . Another effect will be rather more pronounced , and this is aerodynamic damping . Damping is the tendency of a system to create additional forces from movements which run against this movement . Take a wing : If the aircraft rolls , the wingtips will move up on one side and down on the other . Both movements will add a small angle of attack , lowering the total angle of attack on the up moving tip and increasing it on the down moving tip . Both tips will see a change in lift which will counteract the rolling motion . If the rolling speed is $ \ omega_x $ , the resulting change in angle of attack $ \ alpha $ at a wing station $ y $ is $ $ \ Delta \ alpha = arctan \ left ( \ frac { \ omega_x \ cdot y } { v } \ right ) $ $ As you can see , the flight speed is in the denominator , so a higher flight speed will create a smaller angle change for the same roll rate . The same holds true for the other axes of movement , and in consequence the <URL> or an artificial damper . I guess it is the lower damping which made you think that the control surfaces are less effective . They are n't .
The <URL> you are referring to explains how radar is used to fly through a <URL> whilst avoiding the most turbulent areas . Conventional weather radar can not detect wind speed or turbulence directly , it only detects solid and liquid objects above a threshold size . The most turbulent areas of thunderstorms are also those areas that contain the most water and ice . This precipitation reflects radar waves very well so the most turbulent areas have the strongest reflections and shows up as red / purple on the scope . The area downwind of the core is usually very turbulent as well . So the weather radar is merely detecting the presence of water . It is the pilot interpreting the picture who is really detecting the turbulence . <URL> ( CAT ) does not have condensated water in it and is therefore undetectable by conventional radar . There are systems such as LIDAR that can detect CAT but they generally not installed on aircraft . As @reirab noted in a comment , a Doppler radar can be used to detect the relative speed of the particles from an aircraft . This is not used to reliably detect wind speed , but when there are large variations in wind speed ( a.k.a. turbulence ) the Doppler shift in the reflections from the particles causes a spectrum spread . This is an indication for turbulence . The traditional S-band airborne weather radars do not have this capability but the newer X-band radar ( e.g. this <URL> ) can detect wet turbulence to distance of up to 40-60 nautical miles using this technique . LIDAR ( a portmanteau of Light and RADAR ) is a technology that uses light instead of radio waves . LIDAR can measure position and relative velocity of aerosols and therefore it can be used to detect turbulence . It has been used successfully to detect wind shears and map wake vortices on final approach from the ground ( <URL> ) . <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) is going on into airborne use of LIDAR to detect CAT . One of the difficulty is to detect vertical components of the turbulence . This causes very little Doppler shift but at the same time have the most effect on the aircraft ( since the vertical component of turbulence causes changes in angle of attack ) . As far as I know there are currently no commercial applications of LIDAR for airborne turbulence detection .
There have been a couple of examples - the <URL> , for example , had a retractable pontoon below the hull ( and retractable wing floats ) , though it was an one-off experimental aircraft with a single flight to its credit . <URL> Blackburn B20 , image from <URL> As a more widespread example , the <URL> 's wing floats were retracted electrically after takeoff . <URL> Catalina 's retractable wing float ; image from <URL> Retractable floats have been used in other aircraft too - like the <URL> and the <URL> . Some designs like the <URL> featured retractable floats , which were later removed due to issues . A little more digging reveals that the German <URL> had retractable floats quite early - during WWI ! . However , I doubt it counts as the aircraft never went past taxiing stage . <URL> Ursinus WD 10 fighter seaplane , image from <URL>
One example of a system that can not be switched off by the pilot that is probably more common to all other airframes than just the one airframe I 'm indicating . Whenever electrical power is applied to a Gulfstream G550 , whether it is powered by battery , generators , an apu , or some external power source , each engine 's FADEC Electronic Engine Control ( EEC ) computer will be powered and the pilot can not switch them off . The pilot could only indirectly turns them off by switching off all power sources . However , when the engines are running , he ca n't even do that since there is an engine-driven generator dedicated to powering the EECs in the event of a total power loss . In fact , while the engine is running or even windmilling above 35 % rpm , the EEC 's dedicated generator is supplying all power to the EEC and there is no switch or circuit protection that can be manipulated by the pilot to interrupt it .
There have been tests of real aircraft in wind tunnels , with a pilot sitting in the cockpit . But in all cases the plane had been tied in place with strings . Trimming the lift and especially the thrust in all phases of the test is really impossible . The Messerschmitt 109 was tested in the French Chalais-Meudon tunnel in 1940 , the Bell P-39 was tested at Langley , where the top speed could be improved from 340 to 392 MPH , the <URL> was tested at Langley in 1943 like most small military planes of that period , and lately a stealth demonstrator made by MBB was tested in 1984 , in most cases with the pilot in place . These are the ones I know ; there were certainly more .
<URL> are your friend here . While the area which can be attacked by a gust grows with the square of the length increase , the mass of the drone will grow with the cube of length . This translates into higher disc loading of the props , which in turn requires them to operate at a higher dynamic pressure . The same wind gust will change forces relatively less on a bigger drone . It is the same with aircraft : Light <URL> have the same problems outside that you experienced with the small drone . It gets even better when you look at the capability to resist rotation : Here the <URL> is the deciding factor which grows with the product of mass and length squared . This means the bigger drone will better resist attitude changes by the length increase to the fifth power . To be fair , gust moments will increase with the cube of length increase ( area times lever arm ) , leaving you still with an advantage of length squared . This also means that all changes will happen more slowly , which improves the chances that the control system ( the MEMS sensors onboard as well as your control inputs ) will keep the situation under control .
For subsonic aircraft the Mach number is normally measured from dynamic pressure and static pressure , very similar to the way calibrated airspeed is measured . $ $ M_a = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 } { \ gamma-1 } \ left [ \ left ( \ frac { q_c } { p } +1 \ right ) ^ \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { \ gamma } -1 \ right ] } $ $ with : $ M_a $ , the Mach number $ q_c $ , the dynamic pressure $ p $ , the static pressure $ \ gamma $ , the ratio of specific heats ( 1.4 ) If there is an error in the measurement of either the dynamic or the static pressure both the indicated airspeed and Mach number will be affected . Note that the Mach number has no direct dependency on temperature . The true airspeed is calculated by the ADC from the Mach number and the outside air temperature . $ $ V _ { TAS } = M_a \ cdot \ sqrt { \ gamma R T_S } $ $ with $ R$ , the specific gas constant ( 287.05 for dry air ) $ T_S $ , the static air temperature The indicated true airspeed has a direct dependency on the static air temperature ( $ T_S $ , SAT ) also known as the outside air temperature ( OAT ) . The static temperature can not be measured directly since the air will heat up on impact with the temperature sensor due to adiabatic compression . Instead the total air temperature ( $ T _ \ mathrm { total } $ , TAT ) will be measured . The relation between the measured total air temperature and the static temperature is given by : $ $ \ frac { T _ \ mathrm { total } } { T _ { s } } = { 1 + \ frac { \ gamma -1 } { 2 } M_a ^ 2 } $ $ Since the measurement probe may not recover all the energy from the adiabatic heating a correction factor is introduced : $ $ \ frac { T _ \ mathrm { total } } { T _ { s } } = { 1 + \ frac { \ gamma -1 } { 2 } eM_a ^ 2 } $ $ This ' recovery factor ' $ e $ is determined empirically for the temperature sensor used . The display on the EFIS will show the OAT , which may be slightly off if $ e $ is not entirely correct . This will also affect the " true " airspeed indication . To conclude ; anything indicated in the cockpit can contain measurement errors , regardless whether it is called ' indicated ' or ' true ' . With the introduction of digital flight data systems the error correction tables have been moved from the manuals to the computer , which automatically corrects for them .
Because many copter autopilots are capable of flying a Cat I ILS to 200AGL , and then descending on autopilot into a hover at a pre-determined altitude above the runway . The pilot can then descend down to the runway surface without any forward visibility . The radar altimeter is used to judge distance to the ground . Because of the unique capabilities of helicopters and their autopilots , Cat II and Cat III are superfluous .
If the pilot flubs the flare and landing , the result is frequently survivable . The reason is that even a flubbed autorotation will reduce the vertical speed . Student and instructor walked away from this one : <URL>
A foamed <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Inaugural Virgin Atlantic flight to Atlanta cancelled after ' water cannon salute ' is swapped for foam and clogs engines The de-clogging work was carried out as the pilot and flight crew went on a diplomatic mission to explain exactly what had gone wrong . If it 's only foam , the non-faulty engine can be de-clogged , checked , and returned to service . For QF32 , all the engines <URL> . There were issues with the Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines . The rest of the Qantas fleet either received new engines or modifications . Video for an <URL> . Video for an <URL> .
Correct . True airspeed refers to the actual speed which the aircraft is moving through the air . Ground speed is the speed at which the aircraft moves over the ground . The formula $ v _ \ text { ground } = v _ \ text { true } - v _ \ text { wind } \ cdot \ cos ( \ alpha ) $ Where $ v _ \ text { true } $ is the true airspeed $ v _ \ text { ground } $ is the groundspeed $ v _ \ text { wind } $ is the magnitude of the winds aloft $ \ alpha $ is the angle of the winds aloft relative to the longitudinal axis of the aircraft .
It depends on the aircraft , but in general the answer is that there are no regulatory age limitations , and indeed we have many aircraft flying that are 50 + years old . A notable exception is the Robinson line of piston helicopters . <URL> , whichever comes first , at which point the entire airframe must be completely overhauled . Some of the airframes are indeed rebuilt , but some are also scrapped , depending on level of wear and corrosion . Since the airframe lifetime is in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH , it is governed by : § 91.9 Civil aircraft flight manual , marking , and placard requirements . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry .
It 's not as much boarding as much as standing around does not generate any revenue . Use Your Capital Assets : 25 minutes a day is a lot , and in some cases is equivalent to a domestic leg . Rather than arriving at 23:00 , you could arrive at 22:30 and still squeeze in an additional short flight before midnight . If you 're flying 10 flights a day and you can now fly 11 , you 're doing 10 % more work with the same amount of assets . Estimates for a flight hour of a B737 are ≅ \ $ 3000 - \ $ 3500 in the US , for an aircraft worth perhaps $ 60 million . Fixed Costs : You 're looking at a bit of fixed costs , such as insurance . The more flying time you can squeeze out of the plane , the cheaper each hour will become on average . Less Staff , More Product : You need a certain number of ground staff . If you can cut the time required for an aircraft to be handled by ground staff by 20 % ( 50 → 40 minutes ) , that potentially means that they could handle an additional aircraft in their shift . This principle applies for airline flight crew , as well . It 's a lot cheaper to let the your pilot fly a few hours more than needing to hire another one . Standing around is not always cheap either : Depending on airport cost/fee structure , you may be charged less for the ground time . This is not only standing around ; for instance , Munich airport charges you $ 44 for every 30 minutes of using a ground power unit .
Yes , for a while : Capt. Al Haynes , after <URL> on United Flight 232 . <URL> I was lucky enough to have dinner with Al Haynes a few years ago , and he told me that he had a very difficult time overcoming the guilt of the disaster . The talks he gives have been a way of coping . ( As a side note , he also donates all the money he receives from the talks to the survivors of the crash ) . Capt. Haynes has said the same thing in various interviews : The Seattle Times : Haynes said it took many sessions with a psychiatrist to overcome his survivor 's guilt . He resumed flying three months after the accident ; mandatory retirement at 60 followed two years later . <URL> NY Mag : It was very hard to get past the guilt of surviving . My job had been to get people from point A to point B safely , and I did n't do it . I felt that I had killed them . I had a lot of psychiatric help at the hospital and afterward . Finally , one psychiatrist said , " You 're not going to find an answer . You just have to accept that it happened . " <URL> AvWeb : Haynes said , at the time , that he remained troubled by the accident and constantly wondered if there was something he could have done , some overlooked decision that would have saved all aboard . <URL> Before his death , <URL> said something similar : " To find out 112 people did n't make it , that just about destroyed me , " Fitch once said . " I would have given my life for any of them . It was a really tough time . " <URL>
Passenger operations are overwhelmingly scheduled whereas cargo is on demand and thus less easy to plan . The upside : A cargo plane crew will fly quite diverse routes . The downside : Capacity utilisation is much worse . This shifts the balance of cost such that fixed cost must be much lower than what is possible with scheduled services . As a consequence , older aircraft with much lower depreciation cost are preferred . With them it is less costly if they do n't move for some hours or even days . Operating cost are more important when the aircraft flies as much as technically possible . Especially low cost airlines need to operate hardware with the lowest operating cost possible so they survive the next price war . Premium airlines also have a need for the newest planes : This makes them look premium and more safe . Cargo operators have no such incentive to prefer the newest airplanes ; they profit from the need of passenger airlines to sell their older hardware off . The Economist wrote in April 2013 about Norwegian Air Shuttle : As fuel prices soared in the mid-2000s , and competition from the likes of Ryanair and easyJet intensified , Mr Kjos realised that the only route to survival was to buy lots of new , fuel-efficient planes to achieve economies of scale , and to base some of them in cheaper countries . Boeing and Airbus are straining to keep up with booming demand for new aircraft , so by reserving a large chunk of their delivery slots NAS is denying potential rivals the chance to refresh their fleets with better planes . If an airline is large enough , ordering new aircraft has the added benefit of saturating supply and denying the same aircraft to its competitors . If oil prices are high , this airline will have won the price war before it started in earnest .
Air expands as the temperature increases and it compresses when the temperature decreases . <URL> image source : <URL> When it is colder than ISA , the air column is compressed and therefore you are flying lower than the altimeter is indicating . In other words : the altimeter will over read in cold air .
Jetstreams generally do n't stay perfectly straight . They tend to follow a meandering , curved path so it would be rare for a flight to stay in the max tailwind for very long . Dispatchers will often take advantage of jetstreams and plan the routing to follow part of the jetstream core . There is a website called <URL> where pilots can post photos of high groundspeeds for an " Unofficial " record . Here is an example from that website giving a groundspeed of 736 knots from a 240 knot jetstream tailwind . That is probably about the highest jetstream speed you will see : <URL> <URL>
Yes , this is the system used on the Boeing 737 . As the document mentions , it is similar to the system design on the Boeing 757 and 767 models .
end question
start question
Is the aircraft used by NOAA specially modified ?
Except for modifications related to instrumentation , not much . The WP-3D was developed from the <URL> Orion is a sturdy platform . Used during the Cold War as an antisubmarine patrol aircraft , the plane is built to take punishment . As the <URL> The WP-3D is built like a tough old pickup truck . It can handle a lot of abuse in the storm environment and come back and fly the next day . This is mainly because of the extremely talented maintenance team at NOAA 's Aircraft Operations Center ( AOC ) Simply put , it is a normal aircraft with extensive instrumentation , albeit maintained well . The same applies for the <URL> : The 53rd WRS uses the WC-130J to penetrate tropical storms . These aircraft are not reinforced in any way in fact the only differences between a WC-130J and a C-130J is the addition of two external fuel tanks ( giving them longer range ) , a radiometer pod on the left wing and the two addition crew pallets in the cargo bay ... and of course , the instruments . Actually , the NOAA has <URL> : Why are n't NOAA 's Hurricane Hunter planes torn apart in storm ? Planes are generally not destroyed by strong winds while in flight . Airliners routinely fly in jet streams with winds exceeding 150 mph over the U.S. during the winter . It 's the shear , or sudden change in horizontal or vertical winds , that can destroy an aircraft , or cause its loss of control . That 's why NOAA 's Hurricane Hunter aircraft do n't fly through tornadoes . In a like manner , NOAA pilots and crew routinely ( but never casually ) fly in the high-wind environment of the hurricane and do n't fear it tearing the plane apart . However , they are always monitoring for " hot spots " of severe weather and shear that they can often identify on radar and avoid if it 's too severe .
The builders of an FDR must comply with <URL> ( the older <URL> may also be of interest here ) as per <URL> . These documents do not specifically define a data format but provide requirements for what it must be resilient against . Here is an <URL> that covers some of the topics you are asking about . Since most avionics use <URL> as their standard of communication some FDRs provide <URL> to record the avionics instructions at the time . I would assume these inputs dump the bus data right to the storage medium ( most likely solid state memory these days ) . Since the formats the device uses may be proprietary as well as very low level ( and memory efficient ) I am sure they make software to dump it to other formats . For example <URL> . After some more searching I found what may be the most comprehensive answer from this <URL> What Is a Data Frame ? A flight data recorder ( FDR ) data frame is the order of the words that are transmitted from the digital flight data acquisition unit ( DFDAU ) to the digital FDR ( DFDR ) each second over many seconds ( see ARINC 717 for additional information ) . Most FDR system data frames are made up of four subframes within one superframe . For a 64-words-per-second ( wps ) FDR system , a DFDAU will output 64 12-bit words to the FDR each second , where each word typically contains the value of an analog parameter . The order of the words ( for example , word number 12 of the 64 words ) within a subframe , as well as the order of the subframes , define an FDR data frame . This order is important to understand in order to decode the data recorded in the DFDR . It should also be noted although they may have all been phased out by now , some older cockpit voice recorders and FDRs recorded on analog mediums and may still be inservice doing so .
Traditionally , it was almost only movie projectors in the cabin , since Cathode Ray Tubes ( CRT ) were too bulky and impractical to fit . It was also very expensive . I think only with the arrival of LCD displays seatback displays that we know now were made possible . As for cockpit displays , the CRTs were widely used until LCDs were introduced and offered better performance . You can compare the 737 Classic with retrofitted CRT displays with those of the 737 Next Generation . Compare the 747-400 to the 747-8 which had LCD in place of CRT . I ca n't find pictures , but have been told that the old CRT modules were huge , very deep ( which you ca n't see ) and heavy , compare to the thin panel that now is available . You can still backwards order CRT for aircraft . I was flying with one airline that had done on a very new A320 to maintain commonality with the rest of the fleet . The pilots did n't appreciate it though , since it was bad for the eyes , needed to be dimmed and had ( I believe ) inferior resolution . Page 9 of <URL> gives some details on the display type tradeoff .
Possible : Yes You can in theory lift anything . To do this you will simply need to generate an equal or exceeding amount of lift than the weight of the object . You will also need to generate enough thrust to achieve said situation . The closest thing I can think of to this was <URL> which did actually fly . If you are talking about the kind of vertical hovering that the ship in the movie does you would need to generate an amazing amount of thrust to achieve that . A US <URL> displaces 100,000 long tons ( 224,000,000 LBS ) so you would need to generate at least that much thrust but in reality you would need to generate more to overcome drag and to actually accelerate the craft vertically . For a point of comparison the <URL> weighed 3270 tons ( 6,540,000 pounds ) . If we work through a quick example ( these are very very lose numbers ) , lets take the Nimitz at 224,000,000 LBS and the <URL> ( currently the biggest turbo fan jet ) . The GE90 generates about 115,000 lbf of thrust . So it would take just under 2000 GE90s to generate enough thrust . But lets round it off at 2000 for ease of use and a bit of extra power . The diameter of the engine is 3.429 m and the Nimitz is 332.8 m long . You would need arms with 10 engines a piece just to make all 2000 engines fit down the length of the side . If they were stacked directly next to each other the arms would be about 35m in length . The bigger issue here is fuel flow/mass . You would need to lift enough fuel to actually power these engines for a useable amount of time . On the more sifi side of things , you could use the Nimitz 's nuclear reactor to power ducted fans which overcomes the fuel problem to an extent but I dont have any numbers on that .
Probably <URL> . Though , I should note , that there is some credible evidence that only one person was actually flying the plane and the other may have been forced into coming along . So you could probably consider it to have been stolen by one person , and that person appears to have not been remotely qualified to fly it . When it was leaving the plane seemed to meander down the taxiway to the runway , like the pilot had no idea what they were doing , and then it took off . It has n't been seen since , and most credible theories think it crashed in the ocean . But <URL> abound . A close second would probably be <URL> ( <URL> plane reference ) , also stolen in Africa . This time by an employee of the company who was , unfortunately , suicidal . He flew the plane around the airport for a few minutes demanding to speak to everyone from his boss , to his significant other to the president of the country . He eventually crashed it into a couple of other ATR 's the company owned . In reference to the " I 'm writing a story " line . I would suggest that a 727 probably is n't the optimal plane for a single person to steal . They 're older and difficult to manage on your own . I think a much better option would be a more modern aircraft , like an <URL> or a <URL> . They have avionics that allow for one person to reasonably fly the plane . Granted , they are very new and may be harder to steal . Probably the sweet spot between " new enough to be flyable by one person " and " old enough to have one just sitting around to be stolen " would be something like a <URL> or an <URL> . Both are still quite large , but a skilled pilot could probably operate one on their own if they needed to . In fact , <URL> .
This answer applies to the AVRO RJ ( BAe 146 ) , because this is the aircraft I 've flown . Other aircraft may or may not have similar features/issues/restrictions . Reasons for APU use in mid-air For takeoff , the APU bleed-air can be used to supply the cabin air pressure system to reduce load on engines . This leads to a significant reduction in runway length required . This is routinely used on short runways . Similar reason for the landing , where , for the missed approach/go-around phase , a high climb gradient is required . For example in mountainous areas or combined with icing conditions , where use of engine bleed air is limited , the APU bleed air can feed the cabin pressurization . During flight , when in icing conditions . Similar reason as above . The air-frame anti icing system uses that much bleed-air , there is not much left for cabin pressurization ( or the other way round ) . If the APU bleed-air is used to pressurize the cabin , the ( already low ) climb gradient is improved . During flight , in the event of a generator failure . The generator of the APU can replace one failed generator of an engine . To save engine life . If APU bleed air ( - to pressurize cabin ) is used for normal takeoff , the peak engine temperatures will be lower during takeoff . This increases engine life as the peak engine temperature is the main factor of engine life . It 's significantly cheaper to replace an APU than an engine . In all of the above cases , there are restrictions on the operation of the APU . It may not light-up above 15 ' 000 ft or operation above 25 ' 000 ft is not allowed or not recommended . General operating rules for the APU ( common sense when using turbines ) recommend to use bleed air only after couple of minutes warm-up after startup . Likewise , on shutdown , it should be left running without load to cool down for a few minutes before switching off . The exact timings differ greatly between APU models . Procedures Before Takeoff , If the API is not used during climb , the APU is normally shut down during taxi checks . If the pilots decide to use the APU during climb , it is started during normal engine start . In this case the APU bleed air is used to feed the cabin pressurization . After Takeoff depending on the model of the APU ( and following airline procedures ) , the APU usage is limited to a specified time or altitude . Before reaching this limit , the APU has to be shut down . ( cabin air changeover to the engine bleed air , cool-off period of the APU , switching off ) During Flight In case of a technical problem or emergency , the Abnormal Checklist will suggest or dictate the use of the APU for the remainder of the flight . For example : A generator problem , the APU generator replace the failed generator . This may impose limits to flight altitude and duration . Before Landing Usually after passing 10 ' 000 feet , the APU is started and before the final checks , the cabin pressurization system is switched to the APU .
On light aircraft , polycarbonate windshields have been the norm . On higher speed aircraft , glass is used , particularly with heated windshields . Glass is actually a " plastic " but the polycarbonate plastics and glass have very different properties . Polycarbonate tends to be pretty shatter resistant , although I know a turkey vulture which proved otherwise ( grin ) . It really depends upon the type of aircraft and the design criteria , which include the operations , temperature , heat requirements ( ie hot windshield for de ice ) , weight considerations , EMI considerations ( coatings , etc. ) and so on . Both materials have been in sure for a long time . So what kind of aircraft are you talking about ?
Technically yes . But I am unaware of any attempt to do this with airliners . But there were <URL> in the past which used a big airplane or a <URL> as a mother ship , which took fighters with it for air defense . The <URL> was involved in several such designs . In all cases the docking was made from below , because this gave the fighter pilot the best field of view and reduced the risk of a tail strike . While the fighter in the picture above is a Republic F-84 , McDonnell even designed one specifically for the purpose of being carried around by a bomber , the <URL> . It used a rather complicated trapeze for docking and was then pulled up into the fuselage , as the picture with a B-29 below shows . Your design proposal with the simple platform on top of the fuselage would carry a high risk of a tail strike if anything goes wrong , so it is unlikely that this will ever be tried for real . But when you change the airliner to a AN-225 , the idea looks not totally impossible . The <URL> with a mothership as early as the 1930s . The picture below shows a TB-3 docking with a I-Z fighter , the first pair of aircraft in history to dock in flight . The main reason for docking was the much smaller range of fighters . Today , air refuelling takes care of this deficit , so it is unlikely that anyone will see a benefit strong enough to justify the expense of modifying two aircraft and the risk incurred in the docking process .
Because it makes you sound cool and very Top Gun ! Negative Ghostrider . The pattern is full Seriously though , short words , especially at the end and beginning of transmissions are often clipped . When everything is busy , a question might only need a " yes/no " reply . Yes/no is easily lost in radio communication . Affirm/negative are not . Also , with English native speakers , yes and no are absolute . In some languages , yes and no are relative to the question . Interpret this : Do n't you have enough fuel to make the field ? Yes , we do n't . or No , we do n't . Of course , the question is not good as it contains a negative but , if a question can only have an " affirmative or negative " response , it also helps the questioner to form a good question : Can you make the field ? This can only be " affirmative ( always shortened to " affirm " to avoid confusion ) or " negative " . There is no interpretation .
Planes as early as the <URL> had a rudder , it appears from pictures that the 1900 and 1901 variants did not have rudders but its hard to tell from the photos . <URL> Depending on your definition if you are talking about powered flight the <URL> had 2 rudders much like its earlier glider predecessor . <URL> In the lighter than air category , the <URL> had a sail like rudder in the aft of the ship . So that may take the cake if you have consider it a true rudder . <URL> Side Note : Patented in <URL> could be argued as the first design that did not ( as far as I know ) employ a rudder . The earlier <URL> are the most common plane of that design in commercial production . There is quite a bit of <URL> as to the safety of ruddervators and the general theme seems to be that they are not perfect and do require some care to fly properly .
Cellular communication has multiple issues : When a plane is up more than a few thousand feet , a cell phone would see , and try to talk to , multiple cell towers at once . At best , this is inefficient and overloads the cell network . At worst , the network can get confused and drop calls . ( not something you want when trying to get ATC directions ) When a plane is moving rapidly , it will change cell towers frequently . This has the same problems as above . Cell communications is designed for Person-to-Person during a single call . Aviation radio is designed so that everyone can hear everyone else 's communications . Even if an ATC instruction is not specifically for me , I can get a mental picture of what other planes are nearby and what they are doing . This is not so easy with cellular . In many rural areas , cell phone coverage is limited .
Im not sure on military but its still used by GA and Commercial pilots frequently . Although as has been noted in the comments it is slowly being downsized . It should also be noted that Commercial planes and GA planes use the same facilities and the same ATC . Once in the air a C172 may be given the same instructions as a 777 with the only differences being altitude and speed . On one hand some <URL> to some airports . There is an effort to replace these with GPS approaches but there are still active VOR approaches out there today so anyone flying IFR to these airports needs them . They are used for all sorts of IFR navigation and are often the terminal points on an airway , so you may be cleared after departure direct to a VOR . VOR 's can be used as a <URL> . VOR navigation ( and the use of paper charts for that matter ) is still taught during PPL training since GPS is not necessarily installed in every plane . Some <URL> or inertial navigation . <URL> . Personally , I am a big fan of GPS and fly direct when the airspaces and clearances allow for it ( VFR ) . That being said , the planes I rent generally have dual Nav/CDI installations which I frequently use to cross check my position with the GPS .
Valse Des Ailerons ( Waltz of Ailerons ) or VDA is a nickname for the Load Alleviation Function ( LAF ) which is part of the flight control system . LAF uses all ailerons and spoiler 6 to 8 to alleviate the fatigue and static loads on the wings by reducing the wing bending moment . It consist of various sub functions dealing with passive load alleviation ( based on commanded load factor from normal law ) and active load control based on measured accelerations in pylons under the wing . From this it already follows that passive load alleviation requires normal law for load factor inputs . There is a document circulating on the internet which seems to be an official Airbus Pilot Briefing for A380 pilots called " Flight Deck and Systems Briefing for pilots , issue 2 " . In the section about the Flight Control Systems under auxiliary system the following is said about the LAF : Load Alleviation Function ( LAF ) The objective of the LAF is to reduce structure fatigue and static loads on the wing during maneuvers and turbulence . Spoilers 6 to 8 and all the ailerons are involved in the LAF . The LAF is available in normal law only . ( Emphasis added by me ) So your feeling that Valse des Ailerons is only active in Normal Law is correct . Update : Based on the A380 flight crew manual , it depends -- <URL> <URL>
Motive flow is required in design of ejector pumps in fuel system . Ejector pumps ( also known as jet pumps or eductor pumps ) have no moving parts and therefore represent a highly reliable , low cost means to move fuel in an aircraft . All jet pumps contain the physical characteristics illustrated in below figure . <URL> In this pump , the motive flow comes from a high pressure source such as a primary boost pump , or the returned fuel from the engine . When the high pressure motive flow passes through the throat it creates a suction which sucks fuel from its neighborhood and the total fuel flow are sent to another location . The overall efficiency of an ejector pump is low when compared to electric motor powered pumps but they are frequently used due to their extremely long life , high reliability and low cost . The ejector pumps generally are used for two functions : Ejector pumps are often used to provide the primary fuel boost function in smaller transport aircraft applications such as business jets and regional aircraft . In order to minimize the unusable fuel , scavenge pumps are often employed to suck up fuel from the remote corners of fuel tanks and to discharge this fuel at the inlet to the main feed pump ( s ) . Ejector pumps are used for this purpose and the motive flow for these scavenge devices may be taken from the feed pump outlet if other motive sources are not available . Note : Most of above material are from : Langton , R. ( 2009 ) . Aircraft fuel systems . Chichester , U.K Wiley .
The first aircraft jet engine was ground tested by Frank Whittle in April 1937 . In September of the same year , Hans von Ohain ( ground ) tested his jet engine . The first jet aircraft , He 178 flew in August 1939 .
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
ICAO Class F airspace is a bit of an odd duck ( and the US FAA is apparently not the only agency that thinks so - from a quick check on <URL> it seems more jurisdictions ignore class F than implement it . They only mention Class F as being in use in Germany and the UK ) . From a functional/regulatory standpoint Class F is a sort of hybrid between " Class E " controlled airspace and " Class G " ( fully ) uncontrolled airspace : Class F airspace is designated as " uncontrolled " , but you can get ATC clearances in Class F airspace just like in controlled airspace . The catch is they 're " advisory only " ( so you do n't have to comply with them , and all the weight is on the pilot 's shoulders ) . Similarly ATC will provide separation services to IFR flights in Class F airspace , but they do so " where possible " , which means they might tell you they ca n't provide that service and you 're on your own with see-and-avoid . The general use case for Class F airspace seems to be allowing IFR flights to operate in " uncontrolled airspace " . As a US pilot ( and thus having no experience with Class F Airspace ) , it sounds like the services provided in Class F airspace are effectively the equivalent of <URL> : Controllers can give you advisories and make suggestions , but all responsibility is ultimately still on the pilot 's shoulders , and you can politely tell the controller to get stuffed if you do n't like their suggestions ( without needing to declare an emergency to vest yourself with that authority ) . In the US we already have the Flight Following system and culture set up for VFR folks ( and generally speaking it 's available nationwide , irrespective of airspace class , as long as the controller can get you on radar and is n't overworked ) . We also have a pretty robust Class E airspace nationwide . Because of this the FAA probably sees no need to designate specific " Class F " regions where IFR flights can get the equivalent of " Flight Following " : If you 're VFR you can usually get flight following if you want it , and if you 're IFR you should have no trouble staying in controlled airspace ( Class A , B , C , D , or E ) for your entire route of flight .
You 're correct that a headwind will reduce the takeoff roll ( takeoff distance ) . As far as takeoff speed , the airspeed will remain same , but the ground speed will be reduced . In the simplest sense , an aircraft rotates for takeoff when it generates enough lift ( leaving aside other considerations ) . This is dependent on the airspeed as the lift generated is propotional to the square of airspeed ( provided the other factors like wing area and lift coeffecient are kept constant ) at a density altitude . As a result , it is the airspeed , not the groundspeed that matters . If you have some headwind , the effective groundspeed is reduced by the same amount - resulting in reduced takeoff distance . The effect of the wind on landing distance is similar to the takeoff distance . You can see this in the following figure . <URL> Image from <URL> As it can be seen , the presence of winds can have a significant effect on the takeoff disantances required ( note that the airspeed remains the same in all cases ) . Due to this , the direction of prevailing winds can have a significant effect on determining the runway headings . From <URL> : The weather patterns of an area , especially the prevailing winds , are a major factor in determining runway headings . Prevailing winds are defined as the direction from which the winds blow most frequently . Remember that airplanes take off and land into the wind . Let 's say that at a given airport the prevailing winds blow in from the west 65 % of the year , while 30 % of the year the wind blows in from the east , and the remaining 5 % coming from the northwest . It would be best then to orient the runway W ( 27 ) and E ( 9 ) . That would mean that approximately 95 % of the year airplanes would be landing and taking off into the wind .
Assuming the question was referring to the US airport market , where indeed a big chunk of the airport fees are indeed taxes , here 's their composition according to <URL> :
In the real aircraft that checklist item would mean bringing the thrust lever of the engine to be started up out of and to the position . This would be accomplished by physically moving the thrust lever forward slightly out of the detent . However , in the computer flight sim for which the linked checklist provides guidance , the position of the thrust levers is not simulated . Instead , thrust lever positions below idle command reverse thrust . For this reason , the checklist calls for using the computer keystroke to command fuel flow on . This keystroke combination commands in simulated piston aircraft . In the real Lear 45 , fuel flow and scheduling during start is controlled by the Digital Electronic Engine Control ( DEEC ) . For this reason , the start checklist calls for setting the appropriate thrust lever to idle prior to commanding engine spool up in preparation for the DEEC to automatically start actual fuel flow once the appropriate compressor speed is achieved . It is worth noting that after initially setting the thrust lever to -- or hitting on your computer -- the fuel flow indication should read zero . The check for appropriate positive fuel flow comes later in the start sequence . Compared to setting the thrust lever to in the Lear 45 , the analogous control command for starting most piston engines would be mixture to and for most turboprop aircraft would be fuel condition lever to or similar .
end question
start question
Are there standard ground-tether systems for unpowered aircraft ?
In the United States moored balloons ( or kites ) are governed under <URL> ( a much neglected and very short corner of the regulations that also covers amateur rocketry and " unmanned free balloons " -- looking at your profile it 's probably a section you 'd find very interesting ! ) . In this particular case you 're probably looking for <URL> . The FAA is mum on the specific engineering requirements of mooring systems - I expect they anticipate you will work with structural and mechanical engineers to design a tethering system that can safely hold the loads your moored object will place on it ( or just tie it to the biggest , most structurally secure thing you can find , with a nice heavy rope and a proper knot ) . There are a few things they ARE pretty specific about though . Some operating limitations ( altitude , size , location , visibility ) . The fact that you have to tell them about it in advance ( At least if it 's more than 150 feet AGL , per ) Lighting and marking requirements for the tether ( s ) ( , which basically says the mooring line must have pennants ( daytime ) and/or lights ( nighttime ) to ensure visibility ) What happens to Balloons if the tether breaks ( , which basically says if the balloon breaks free of its moorings you need a " rapid deflation device " that gets it down in a hurry so it 's not just wandering around up there ) . Interestingly they do n't seem to care so much if a kite escapes its moorings .
There is a descent requirement , but it 's perhaps not in the way you imagine as it has to do with oxygen supply . <URL> subpart K states : ( b ) Crewmembers . When operating at flight altitudes above 10,000 feet , the certificate holder shall supply enough oxygen to comply with § 121.329 , but not less than a two-hour supply for each flight crewmember on flight deck duty . The required two hours supply is that quantity of oxygen necessary for a constant rate of descent from the airplane 's maximum certificated operating altitude to 10,000 feet in ten minutes and followed by 110 minutes at 10,000 feet . The oxygen required in the event of cabin pressurization failure by § 121.337 may be included in determining the supply required for flight crewmembers on flight deck duty . This specifies that a turbine aircraft must be able to descend from it 's maximum certificated altitude to 10,000 ft in 10 minutes or less . This means the maximum descent speed is variable to maximum certificated altitude , so if an aircraft 's ceiling is 42000ft it must be able to descend at least 3200fpm , it it 's 25000ft then 1500fpm . As for how that 's done I do n't think the regulations say , it 's up to the manufacturers to develop aircraft that can meet the requirement .
The New York Sectional ( the only paper one I have on hand right now ) is 20 3/4 X 59 1/4 inches . You are correct , they are large and printed on nice thick paper .
Why more experience is required to fly the airliner above I assume 6096 meters ? I would expect , taking off and flying close to terrain should need more experience . I 'm unaware of any regulation that requires a minimum number of hours to be a captain or first officer above FL200 . That does n't mean there are n't such , just that I do n't know of them . It 's not that that taking off and flying close to terrain requires more or less experience , but that safely operating at high altitude typically involves a different set of knowledge and experience than operating at low altitude . A seasoned bush pilot who does only that would be ill equipped to suddenly become the captain of a 747 at 35,000 feet , just as the 747 captain who had never been a bush pilot would be ill equipped to scud run through a valley to land on a remote airstrip . Part of the difference between two such pilots is , of course , a matter of a propeller airplane versus a jet , a slow airplane versus a fast , and the differing complexities of their aircraft . In addition to those differences , though , the environment that they typically operate in and indeed the altitude itself makes things different . The nature of the emergencies they can possibly face are also different . Offhand I can think of three things the typical low altitude pilot does n't have to contend with that the high altitude pilot does . There are certainly more . Oxygen considerations , in other words what you need to do if you suddenly do n't have it at a breathable pressure . Probably never going to happen , but the high altitude pilot trains for it . Regular operation in or close to the coffin corner . If you 're unfamiliar with the term , <URL> has a reasonable explanation as well as <URL> . A whole different situational awareness environment than the low altitude pilot . For example , I used to do a flight from Sao Paulo to Miami . Two other carriers had flights scheduled that went out immediately before us , also 747s . Everybody was always heavy , which meant the first guy out got the highest cruise altitude available for the weight we were all at approximately , the second guy 2,000 feet below that , and then us sucking fuel 4,000 feet lower than the first . However , I knew that if I could open up the distance between myself and the second guy , I could get a clearance through the second guy 's altitude to the first guy 's altitude since there was enough time/distance between us . So what I would do was to climb at best angle rather than best rate . Then , if the weather was good ( i.e. no turbulence ) and I had the engines for it , it took very little fuel burn before I would able to get 2,000 feet higher if I was willing to accept slightly lesser protection from the top of the coffin corner . Sometimes that would work out , sometimes not , but it always got us at least up to the first guy 's altitude . And on rare occasions , it meant we reached Miami before either of the other two .
With larger wings comes more drag . True , because the drag is a function of the wing area A : $ $ D = C_D \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho \ cdot V ^ 2 \ cdot A $ $ You need a certain wing area to support the weight of the aircraft . Now the question is : over how many wings will we distribute this wing area ? For over 80 years , the answer has been : one wing ( the two wing halves make up one wing ) . The classical biplane is a thing of the past , however there have been incredibly clever aircraft builders who have looked at the long coupled canard configuration . This one really makes a lot of sense : <URL> Image <URL> So to answer your question : there are aircraft with two wings . It 's just that people do n't buy them , and go for boring old Cessna 's instead .
The AIM contains the information required to operate under IFR using GPS1 . To summarize the requirements , WAAS ( but not " traditional " GPS ) may be used stand-alone without an alternate means of navigation provided : Installation requirements : The WAAS navigation equipment is approved in accordance with TSOC145 or TSOC146 The installation is done in accordance with AC 20-138 Operational Requirements : The WAAS AFM procedures are followed It is not be used by a commercial operator Preflight Requirements : The GPS database is current The GPS database provider does not have any notices prohibiting the use of any fix or procedure that you are going to use GPS NOTAMs/Aeronautical Information is reviewed prior to each flight A RAIM prediction for the time and route is done that shows no loss of RAIM The flight plan navigation equipment is listed as RNAV Note that commercial operators are required to have redundant systems or ground based backups in order to use it , and while not required for you , it 's a pretty good idea . 1 More specifically , see : <URL> 1-1-18 . Global Positioning System ( GPS ) d. General Requirements e. Use of GPS for IFR Oceanic , Domestic En Route , Terminal Area , and Approach Operations f. General Database Requirements 1-1-19 . Wide Area Augmentation System ( WAAS ) c. General Requirements
The short answer is no , beyond the need for an aircraft to satisfy the <URL> set by the FAA and other regulators . There must also be room for an approved seat cushion and seatbelts . So there is a point where a lack of legroom would impede evacuation to the extent that an aircraft could n't pass the <URL> , but there 's generally no specific minimum legroom requirement . The main exception is in the UK , which does have a form of <URL> ( according to that link , the UK is the only country with one ) . The requirement is given as a different form of measurement from how airline seat pitch is normally defined , but the above link indicates that it basically translates to a 28-inch seat pitch . That 's about as <URL> , namely Spirit in the US . Most airlines draw the line at 30 " , with a few low cost carriers doing 29 "
Short answer : Operational voltages on the 28 V bus may range from 22 V to 30 V. Abnormal voltages on the 28 V bus may occur from 0 V to 60 V . The detailed requirements depend on the manufacturer , the type of plane and the jurisdiction . USA : MIL-STD-704 US military standard <URL> defines electrical properties of military aircraft equipment . For instance the 28 V DC bus is specified as : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> A similar standard should exist for commercial aircraft , unless they just apply MIL-STD-704 as well . Europe : ISO 1540 In Europe there is <URL> . This standard differentiates by the actual power source : Category A : TRU ( transformer ) Category B : engine driven DC generator Category R : regulated DC power from active converter Category A and B are specified identically for their DC characteristics . Category B is the worst case for AC ripples . Category R is the best case , as it is already regulated . Nevertheless , connected equipment needs to cope with the worst case , that is category B ( engine driven generator ) . ISO 1540 specifies the 28 V DC bus characteristics ( summarized ) as : 28 V DC bus - Normal operation : 22 V - 30 V 28 V DC bus - abnormal/onset : 0 V - 60 V <URL> <URL>
I 'm only able to find the following about bank angles , which specifically refers to turns while in a holding pattern : <URL> 6 . ( b ) : ( b ) Make all turns during entry and while holding at : ( 1 ) 3 degrees per second ; or ( 2 ) 30 degree bank angle ; or ( 3 ) 25 degree bank provided a flight director system is used . NOTE - Use whichever requires the least bank angle . This is also in the <URL> which under * High Performance Holding on page 3-25 says that a flight director has a bank angle limit of 25 degrees . If we use the above guidelines , then a flight director will use 3 degrees per second or 25 degrees of bank , whichever is less . My calculations give us the following bank angles and associated rate of turns1 : As you can see , a jet travelling at 480 Knots TAS ( not uncommon at altitude ) would require almost a 55 degree bank angle to make a standard rate turn , which would be an amount considered by almost anyone as excessive . When limited to 25 degrees of bank , this would result in a rate of turn of 1 degree per second ( or a 6 minute turn ) . Anything over 160 Knots TAS would be less than a standard rate turn , and once past 320 Knots TAS it would n't even be a 1/2 standard rate turn . As far as the 1/2 Standard Rate , they often use the 1/2 BANK autopilot mode at high altitudes . This would result in a rate of turn approximately halved , so a 360 degree turn would take 12 minute at the same 480 Knots TAS . ATC expects the normal bank in the terminal environment though , so it is n't used at lower altitudes . As others have said , transport category jets do n't even have a rate of turn indicator ( it is n't required by 14 CFR 25 if you have a third attitude indicator ) and they simply fly bank angles . Normal hand flying is limited to 30 degrees , which would allow a standard rate turn at a slightly higher airspeed , but then starts to taper off just the same . That being said , the <URL> does include this little tidbit in the section on turn indicators on page 5-21 : The dial of these instruments is marked " 2 MIN TURN . " Some turn-and-slip indicators used in faster aircraft are marked " 4 MIN TURN . " In either instrument , a standard rate turn is being made whenever the needle aligns with a doghouse . A standard rate turn is 3 ° per second . In a 2 minute instrument , if the needle is one needle width either side of the center alignment mark , the turn is 3 ° per second and the turn takes 2 minutes to execute a 360 ° turn . In a 4 minute instrument , the same turn takes two widths deflection of the needle to achieve 3 ° per second . So maybe at some point in the past it was more common ( or maybe faster but-not-quite-as-fast-as-todays-jets ) but you just do n't see that anymore . ( It could be where all of the references to 1/2 standard rate turns come from though . ) 1 Math adapted from the formulas <URL> .
The EICAS will have the engine instruments and the crew alerting system in one display . It is a vital instrument because it displays engine parameters , fuel , the crew alert system and other systems information depending on the specific airplane . The CAS ( crew alerting ) functionality of the EICAS replaces the illuminated fault buttons in older airplanes . <URL> <URL> CC-BY-SA 3.0 The electronic CAS that is part of an EICAS display is a superset of these old panels and can display a much bigger set of alerts . The specific alerts that can be shown will cover most error and failure modes the airplane systems can reasonably encounter . Cautions are yellow in color and will illuminate the master caution and sound an audible chime . Warnings are red in color and will illuminate the master warning and sound the triple chime ( and the fire bell for certain conditions ) . There may also be advisory messages displayed in another color , e.g. cyan , on the EICAS . <URL> EMB-145 EICAS . The CAS is the upper right portion of the display The messages themselves are terse and not detailed , though detail can be inferred from the pre-defined message text . Warnings and cautions that are displayed can be addressed with memory immediate action items ( memorized checklists ) and/or the QRH ( quick reference handbook ) which defines the procedures for dealing with problems in a verbose checklist flowchart . The QRH will be indexed by the messages on the CAS so they can be easily found and referenced .
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
This depends heavily on how the plane is set up especially these days with <URL> even in GA planes . For a point of reference most small GA planes like the <URL> run <URL> which usually have a bit of headroom in them but power everything and charge the battery just fine . If you want to fly in most airspace you are going to need to power at least a transponder and a radio ( more than likely two radios ) . <URL> and is fairly common in the Archers I fly . Your run of the mill <URL> radio comes in 10 and 16 watt versions . To get the total requirement just add up all of your components draw . Most manufacturers list power requirements ( or voltage and current draw requirements ) for any given piece of equipment and you will have your required power . As for De-Ice requirements this depends on <URL> . A weeping wing will only require power to drive the fluid pump and the windshield heater where as a boot style system will require enough power to drive the compressor that inflates the boots . Although its becoming increasingly more common to see FIKI on GA planes the majority of the small aircraft fleet still lacks FIKI capability .
Is there any aircraft designed to perform its mission into this 30km wide slice of atmosphere ? ( between 50km and 80km ) - apart from some experimental rocket planes and so on , I ca n't think of any . The main problem is there 's so little air - very little opportunity to generate lift , and very little air to run a jet engine . In theory it should be possible for a winged aircraft to fly up there ( it is below the <URL> ) but the engineering difficulties would seem to make this impractical . For more detail I 'd recommend the top answer for this question : <URL> What is the usefulness of this slice for aviation ? If it were possible , it would be useful for futuristic or military things like : spy planes like the SR-71 but higher and faster super-fast suborbital transport passing through on getting into orbit - <URL> vehicles for example . ( All of these examples are pipe dreams at the moment of course . )
You might want to have a look into <URL> . The article suggests that In 2003 , ICAO set a deadline of March 2008 for English language proficiency at Level 4 and above for all pilots flying international routes and air traffic controllers serving international airports and routes . Original text is not in bold . In the same link , you can also find the description of each rating scale , as described in the , quoted here for convenience : <URL> As of translators on call , I 've never heard of such a practice and if I judge from the Level 4 being the minimum , that would n't be necessary .
None of the avionics systems I 've worked on have used Linux or any consumer-type operating system . There are a few main issues . First is the practical . Most safety-critical avionics involve a control loop and thus have a real-time requirement . That means it 's not just important to run a process and get an answer , you need to get the answer within a tightly-controlled time constraint . Every critical software process on an aircraft is scheduled to ensure that you have a stable control loop . To do that , you need a real-time OS and Linux is n't one . Second is the need for certification . Software used on an aircraft has to be developed to meet the appropriate development assurance level ( DAL ) for the associated hazard level . Safety critical systems are required to meet DAL level " A " . Any OS you use has to meet the same DAL as the function running on it . These requirements are defined in RTCA <URL> . Linux was n't developed to this standard . There are only a few OS/software development platforms that are capable of being certified . Green Hills , Wind River , and LynxOS are the few systems I 'm familiar with that meet the requirements . There is also one other constraint in that certification requires very stringent version control . Avionics will exist in the field for many years and any changes to it have to be certified as well . Generally , there 's no valid reason to update the OS on an old unit , and in many cases you could n't without upgrading hardware ( which is a bigger expense no one wants ) . So in updating an old unit I have to build the ' new ' software to run on the whatever version of OS currently exists in the product . That could be a 15 or 20 years old ( or older ) platform . A rapidly evolving OS such as Linux would have a negative impact on long term product support .
For the first half century of manned flight , landing gears overwhelmingly had only a single , large wheel per leg . This was the cheapest and simplest way to ensure ground mobility , but ran into trouble when aircraft grew in size . When the XB-36 prototype started testing in 1946 , <URL> were able to tolerate the 156 psi pressure of its single main wheels . For operating from unprepared surfaces , tracked gears were the straightforward transfer from tank experience to landing gear design . <URL> Tracked main gear on the XB-36 prototype ( picture <URL> ) However , another route which was tried at about the same time was to increase the number of wheels the aircraft rests upon . With hindsight , the multi-wheel way was the better solution and has prevailed . When used with large , <URL> it does <URL> than a tracked gear . Some early and rather extreme examples for the multi-wheel route include the <URL> four-engine tactical transport aircraft . Only 20 were produced , however . <URL> Arado 232 from up close . No prize for guessing why it had the nickname " Tausendfüssler " ( millipede ) ( picture <URL> ) . When it comes to designing large aircraft for soft field operations , the Ukrainian design bureau Antonov has unsurpassed experience . This comes to bear in the landing gear of the <URL> , shown below ( <URL> ) . When you have 24 wheels to spread the load out , even 400 tons might not be too heavy , especially when the tire pressure can be adjusted from the cockpit . <URL> An-124 in a botched landing . No worry , the gear will tolerate this kind of abuse , too . Therefore , the research on tracked gears has come to an end shortly after it begun , and even the B-36 ended its days on a four-wheel bogie . Today , every large airplane has at least two wheels per leg for redundancy and <URL> .
Global Starting from the top , we find the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) , which is a United Nations agency . ICAO was formed in 1944 when the Chicago Convention was signed , and initially had 52 member states . Today , 191 states worldwide are members of ICAO . The headquarter is in Montreal , Canada , and there are 7 regional offices . ICAO standards and other provisions are developed in the following forms : Standards and Recommended Practises ( SARPs ) : Technical specifications adopted by the Council of ICAO in order to achieve the highest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations , standards , procedures and organization within air navigation . Member states will conform to standards and will endeavour to conform to recommended practises . States are invited to inform ICAO of non-compliance . Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) PANS comprise operating practises and material too detailed for SARPs . They are suitable for application on a worldwide basis . Member states are invited to publish differences between national procedures when considered important in the interest of safety . Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPPs ) SUPPs are supplementary procedures which are only valid within one of the ICAO regional office regions . For example , there are supplementary procedures published only valid within the European/North Atlantic region . Also worth mentioning are the International Telecommunication Union ( ITU ) and the World Meteorological Organization ( WMO ) , both of which function on an ( almost ) global level . Regional Below ICAO we have regional organisations . As an example , in Europe , the European Union ( EU ) provides legislations for its member states . Non-regulatory organisations , such as the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) , assist the EU in developing regulations ( but the EU , not EASA , is the regulatory authority ) . Some areas do not have regional regulators like the EU . In such areas , national regulations are handled directly by national regulators . Within the EU , countries also have national regulators -- but they are bound to base their regulations on EU regulations . National Below the regional level we have national regulators , commonly referred to as civil aviation administrations ( CAA ) . Each country will have their own CAA . One that you will often hear about is the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , which is the national regulator in the USA . Generally speaking , a national regulator will be following framework regulations published by the national ministry of transport . The term ministry of transport is also sometimes applied to the departments or other government agencies administering transport in nations who do not employ ministers . The framework regulations from the ministry of transport are largely based on ICAO SARPs , PANS , SUPPs and any regional regulations ( such as EU regulations ) . The national regulator will publish detailed regulations , which are adapted by the air navigation service providers , as well as airlines , pilots , air traffic controllers , maintainence companies etc. etc. . The service providers , commonly referred to as ANSPs , are the organisations actually providing air navigation services , such as communication , navigation and surveillance equipment , meteorological services , air traffic management ( including ATC ) , aeronautical information and search and rescue . Most ANSPs operate within a single nation , but there are also multinational ANSPs , a few examples are ASCENA ( Africa and Madagascar ) , COCESNA ( Central America ) , EUROCONTROL ( Benelux ) and NUAC ( Sweden and Denmark ) . The service providers work together with the national regulators to develop detailed procedures , but do not ( usually ) have any regulatory authority .
In cruise , there are no opposite turns that precede every turn . Human senses and the inner ear are very good at playing tricks , in fact pilots ca n't judge turns if they have no visibility ( e.g. , in clouds ) without using their flight instruments . Judging an aircraft 's bank from a passenger seat is almost impossible at night , in clouds , over sheets of ice , over hazy oceans , etc. . On a commercial flight , the water in a cup remains level in the lateral during <URL> , that 's because the load pulling down on the aircraft will still be pulling down perpendicular to the floor . A shallow roll to the right or left could be just the plane correcting its course in a gust or so .
Logbooks are an interesting blend of personal and professional recordkeeping . The FAA does n't really make a big deal about what method you use to log your flight time , just as long as you log all flight time which you 're going to later use to justify currency or a new certificate . This means that you can do whatever works best for you , as long as you ( and your future employers ) are happy with it . When I transitioned to <URL> , I decided to spend a few weeks worth of evenings and just enter everything , line by line . I did this because I had a lot of spare time , and because from now on I 've got a pristine digital copy of everything , which is a nice feeling . However , this is certainly not necessary , and there is no reason why you could n't summarize your totals with one or a few line items . In fact , Safelog provides a function to do exactly that : you create a pseudo-aircraft type which is defined as " summarizes several aircraft " . You can get as coarse ( 1,302 hours in airplanes ) or as fine ( 389 hours in blue C-172M 's with the funny starter that sounds like you just dropped a shot glass in a garbage disposal ) as you want . I would say that whatever you choose to do , just be sure that you enter it using a format which will be compatible when you switch from Android to iPad . It 's bad enough to do it once , why put yourself through the hassle of doing it twice ?
I do n't understand your statement - not sure where you are going with that . In general , the principles are the same as for fixed wing . If the CofG limits are exceeded , it is possible to run out of control authority to the extent that the aircraft becomes uncontrollable . Many helicopters , I believe any with a tail rotor , have different left/right CofG limits . The tail rotor opposes the rotation of the fuselage due to torque from the rotor . Since it does this by producing thrust to the side , there is a " translating tendency " which would cause the helicopter to drift in the direction in which the TR is generating lift . To counter this , the cyclic neutral position is rigged to the left ( CCW rotor ) or right ( CW rotor ) which results in the skid on that side hanging low . Clearly , there is now less possible movement in the cyclic to that side and therefore , a narrower lateral CofG . For example , in a helicopter with a counter-clockwise rotating rotor , the fuselage wants to rotate clockwise . The tail rotor will produce a thrust to the left to counter this and a long lever couple is formed with the main rotor which , if not corrected , would cause the helicopter to drift to the right . With a perfectly balanced helicopter , in a no wind steady hover , you want the cyclic to be in the centre with no force required from the pilot . To stop the drift to the right , the cyclic is moved to the left . To prevent the need for the pilot to do this , the cyclic is rigged so that its neutral position is to the left . The main rotor thrust vector is now titled to the left which introduces a horizontal component of thrust acting to the left . This also causes the left skid to hang low . This is why in most CCW rotor helicopters , the captain sits on the right and in some of these helicopters , solo flight from the left is prohibited . Since the cyclic is already left of centre , there is less cyclic authority to the left than to the right . Therefore , the right limit of lateral CofG is less than the left limit . This could not be achieved by moving the CofG since this would level the fuselage but would not oppose the thrust . I will never forget the sensation of my first solo lift into the hover after the talking ballast ( my instructor ) got out and left me to it . I lifted with the control positions where I was used to them . Because there was 170lbs less weight in the front left corner , this meant that I started to pitch up and move back . I was surprised by how much forward and left I had to move the cyclic to counter it . It felt very odd for a few minutes .
end question
start question
Can any aircraft adjust the wing dihedral in flight ?
There was one , and it did it to increase directional stability at supersonic speed . I am talking of the <URL> , of course . There were three benefits to this configuration : Improved directional stability . Without the effect of the folded-down wingtips , the XB-70 would had lost all directional stability upwards of Mach 2 . The wingtips folded down to 64.5 ° anhedral ( or is it -64.5 ° dihedral ? ) which effectively made them into ventral fins . <URL> explains how a ventral fin is especially helpful at supersonic speed , because it works in the compressed air below the aircraft . Less shifting of the aerodynamic center . Since the transition to supersonic flight will shift the aerodynamic center back , folding the wing tips down reduces lift in the aft section of the wing , thus reducing the aftward shift . Better capture of the compressed lower wing flow for lift creation , which is called a <URL> . This increases the pressure on the lower side of the wing at high supersonic speed and allows to fly with a reduced angle of attack , thus reducing drag . <URL> XB-70 landing with wingtips straight ( picture <URL> ) <URL> XB-70 in flight with wingtips down ( picture <URL> ) The XB-70 is also one of only a few types where every aircraft ever built had different dihedral : AV-1 , the first prototype , had 0 ° while AV-2 , the second prototype , had 5 ° dihedral over the whole wing to improve yaw and roll stability . Only the dihedral of the outer panels could be adjusted in flight , however . According to <URL> they were the largest moveable aerodynamic device ever used on an airplane . Other cases of variable dihedral were less intentional , though , and there was really no advantage to it : <URL> Like on many Navy aircraft , the wings of the F-4 could be folded for stowage . If the mechanism was not locked , the wings would fold up . The F-4 was even powerful enough to be flyable this way . When only one side folded up , <URL> , however .
There are quite a few 727 that actually had nose wheel braking , however they utilized it only for maximum braking power . ( Also they were proven to be ineffective and unreliable , so a service bulletin was written to remove the system ) . Saab Gripens use nose wheel brakes to stop as well , the main gear sits farther aft than most planes , so there is quite a bit of weight on the nose gear , which makes it effective for stopping .
Having flight training has no effect at all on your visa status . It 's actually the other way around : your visa status can determine <URL> . But you can definitely get flight training with an H1B . And flying has no special impact on your job : how you choose to spend your free time is none of your employer 's business . There could be some very specific scenarios where flight training and work intersect , e.g. if your company is in the aviation sector you might be able to get them to pay for training . Or if you 're a very senior executive at a very large company then the Board of Directors might have concerns about you spending your time on ' risky ' activities . But otherwise , flying has nothing at all to do with your work .
Tip jet rotors are still being developed , none of them are ramjet powered as far as I know . The <URL> is tip rocket powered , while the <URL> uses air jets powered by a conventional engine . Ramjet technology has not improved , so the cases for using them on rotor tips has not changes . They are still too heavy , thirsty and noisy .
In the Falcon 50 and 900 , we have windshield wipers that we are allowed to use in flight ( up to 205 KIAS ) , but I have never used or seen them used in the eight years that I have been flying them because they simply are n't needed . They are usually stowed out of the wind stream so do n't really cause much drag . The Learjet 's on the other hand DO have hot air that blows on the windshield and we sometimes used it to blow water droplets off of the windshield when on the ground . However , the primary purpose of the hot air was to heat and defog the windshield . On a larger airplane , the additional piping , valves , etc. required to get the hot air all of the way up to the windshield actually weighs and costs more than just putting the windshield wipers up there along with electrically heated windshields to keep them from fogging up .
The tanks are generally sealed with some kind of putty/resin/epoxy like material . Keep in mind that only the joints between exterior panels need to be sealed . On many aircraft this is done through inspection panels . The material is , in a manner of speaking painted/applied . Here is an example from a <URL> , which are <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Tanks on larger aircraft are not all that different , much like this one off a 747 <URL> ( <URL> ) its worth noting that tanks do n't need to be continuously open , they can have structures with in them as long as the fuel is free to flow around . Large and small tanks alike may very well have structural elements inside with flow holes drilled to allow fuel to move around . These elements also help reduce the effects of large quantities of fuel sloshing around as the aircraft changes attitude .
That -40 is SAT and in degrees Celsius . The reason that anti-ice is generally no longer needed below that temperature is because at that point , the air is so dry that there is n't enough moisture left to form frost or ice that will stick to the airframe or engine parts . Normally , it 's engine anti-ice , rather than wing anti-ice , that is still on when you get to the point in the climb that the temperature drops below -40 . At least in the 737 , the engine anti-ice is kept on continuously while the temperature is below +10 TAT and above -40 SAT and you 're in IMC or other visible moisture ( i.e. rain , snow , etc ) , while wing anti-ice is only used " as needed " to remove ice buildups from the wings . Also of note , the " below -40 is too cold " logic only exists in climb and cruise , not in a descent . The rationale there being , you do n't want to miss the transition from the air is no longer " too cold for icing " as you descend , and find out that your motors ARE now accumulating ice , when they start to act sick ... that makes your day entirely too interesting !
According to <URL> they used to be very customizable , but not very much interchangeable at least to the point that no one bothered to change them on second-hand aircraft . They are reducing it because it only causes confusion . Aircraft change owners and pilots change employers and it 's most useful if all aircraft of the same type have the same cockpit layout . As far as 787 goes , it has very similar flight deck to 777 , always , to the point it has <URL> .
As <URL> , you can basically request flight following at any time and any certificate level - student , sport pilot , private pilot - the service is available to anyone . Also : We 're told that FF is " workload permitting " . I used to think that meant they 'd give you services when they can . But I was wrong about that . Instead , once they accept you , you 're in the system , and get full services . If they get too busy , they 'll tell you and kick you out of the system . ( " Radar Services Terminated ; Squawk VFR " ) FF depends on radar services . When flying rather low and near mountains , its easy for them to lose you . As for when you should request it : You can request it at anytime . Personally , I would n't be in a hurry to request it as soon as you depart . Wait until you 're established on course , in a cruise-attitude ( instead of a climb ) , and everything is settled and running smoothly . Then know your position , and how you 're going to report it . Know where you 're going ( both by name and ICAO identifier ) , and try to anticipate any questions they might ask . Look for the Center/Approach/Depature where you are ( look in your AF/D for an airport close to you ) , and call up with : You : " Seattle Center ; November 12345 : VFR , with request " translation : Calling Seattle Center , this is N12345 . I 'm VFR ( so you have n't heard from me before ... do n't be surprised ! ) , and I have a request . Center : " November 12345 : Say request . " You : " November 12345 is SkyHawk , 10 mi . South of Harvey Field , 4,500 feet . Request VFR Flight Following to Friday Harbor " translation : I 'm a Cessna Skyhawk , my location and altitude will help you find me . I 'm asking for FF to this other airport . " Center : " N345 : Squawk 4532 and Ident . " You : ( Set your transponder to 4532 , press the Identify Button ) , and say " 4532 and Ident , N345 " Center : " N345 : Radar Contact , 11 mi . south of Sierra Four Tree , at 4,500 . Traffic at your 1o ' clock , 5 mi . North Bound , Altitude indicates 3,000 . " translation : I found you on my radar scope , and am describing the position I see you . ( If you disagree , speak up ! ) . You have traffic ahead and slightly to your right . Their transponder indicates 3,000 feet , but I can not independently verify that .
Your assumption is correct - it is indeed about infrared ( wavelength between 750 nm and 10,000 nm ) and ultraviolet ( wavelength between 100 nm and 400 nm ) radiation . The sensor detected two specific wavelengths , one from each range . Every body has an <URL> which is consistent with its temperature . This radiation has an intensity distribution which shifts to shorter wavelengths with temperature . By comparing the intensity of the IR and UV parts of this radiation , the sensor can much better distinguish between radiation sources of different temperature . Flares are normally hotter than engine exhausts , so by detecting an excess of UV radiation , the sensor can distinguish between flares and exhaust pipes . <URL> " Wiens law " by 4C - <URL> . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Commons . Natural disturbances means reflected sunlight off a polished aircraft surface or canopy , or off lakes or windows on the ground . Even after filtering by the upper atmosphere , sunlight will contain much more UV radiation than your average exhaust pipe , and glares were a big distraction to early thermal seekers . Sunlight would correspond to the green line in the diagram above , while the exhaust would be even below the dark red line . Note that the absolute intensity also goes up with temperature , but would not help in identifying the temperature of a target if only one wavelength is observed . A more distant , hotter target would cause the same intensity than a colder , closer one . By sensing two wavelengths , the sensor could much better tell an exhaust pipe from other heat sources . To answer the question directly : The UV signature of the aircraft itself is practically zero except for the reflection of the UV part of sunlight , and the active UV emission of a jet engine is extremely low and concentrated around its exhaust when seen from behind . Lighting the afterburner will increase the UV radiation , but it will still be much less relative to the IR radiation that that of , say , <URL> .
The main reason for having variable incidence wing in the F-8 was that it allowed the production of increased lift due to a greater angle of attack without reducing pilot visibility as the fuselage stayed level . For aircraft with high angle of attack TO/landings ( like delta winged aircraft ) , pilot visibility is a problem in low speed landings , as the nose will obstruct the runway ( or carrier , for that matter ) in extreme cases . There are two ways to solve this problem : Droop the nose , like the Concorde or Make the wings variable incidence , like the F-8 . The first option is usually preferred ( same thing was done in Tu-144 ) as the weight penalty is ( significantly ) less . However , this was n't possible in the F-8 as the engine air intake was in the nose ; so the incidence of wings was changed . The variable incidence wing had the added advantage of reducing the length of landing gear required and improved the low speed characteristics . In case of Martin XB-51 , the variable incidence wings were used to reduce take off distance as it was expected to be operated from forward airfields .
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
Because that wing is a cantilevered beam which is now supporting over half the weight of the jet on it . This causes the wing to flex , much like a leaf spring , when loaded . While fascinating to watch this is benign and designed to do this . In addition , this wing flexure helps to absorb bumps , air turbulence , dampen flutter , maneuvering loadings , etc. much like the coil springs in your car 's suspension do . Do n't be alarmed to see this . Those wing structures have been tested to far worse loads and conditions that you will ever see on a revenue carrying flight before failure occurs . A 747 's wingtips can flex by as much as 12ft up/down during flight . Newer composite wings are capable of much greater flexure . This was video shot of Boeing 's destructive testing on the 777 wing . Note the wingtip flexes by as much as 20ft upward at a loading over 150 % that of its design load limits before structural failure occurred .
Just imagine an aerobatic aircraft going straight up and rolling at the same trime - sure it will have positive lift on one side and negative on the other while accelerating into the roll or when stopping the rolling motion . Note that during a constant rolling motion while in a vertical climb the overall rolling moment and the <URL> both are zero . Also , wing twist will cause very little lift or even a small downforce at the wingtip at low angle of attack . I remember that the wingtips of the <URL> and <URL> gliders would point downwards from the negative lift at high speed . The high aspect ratio glass fiber wing would bend a lot and indicate the local lift with a local change in curvature . However , if you were flying an approach , the aircraft should have flown too slowly to allow for that condition , unless it also started to roll violently from the lift asymmetry . If you had to apply full aileron to counter a gust-induced rolling moment , that very aileron deflection would avoid any negative lift on one of the wingtips . This only leaves the possibility that you had negative lift for a very short moment and over a small part of the wing when the gust hit you and before you countered the rolling motion with the ailerons .
There 's one I can think of immediately , and that 's the granddaddy of them all , the <URL> . The X-1 's control system was unassisted and it had no hydraulic system . The only part of the control system that was assisted was the horizontal stabilizer , which was <URL> . I think most of the early supersonic test airplanes were mechanically operated .
Airline food is usually <URL> and loaded on the aircraft , where it is reheated and served . In some cases , the food is half-prepared on ground and completed in air ( in onboard ovens ) . However , in some cases ( Emirate Airlines , for example ) business class customers can have ( some type of ) food prepared in-flight .
According to the tooltips on the Lockheed Martin site , the flight rules are : MVFR - Military VFR ; restricted to military flights MIFR - Military IFR ; restricted to military flights YFR - Initially operated under IFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules ZFR - Initially operated under VFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules There 's very little information on MVFR and MIFR flight plans that I could find , but the FAA 's FSS procedures do include <URL> that are required when receiving a military flight plan ( section 6-4-7 ) . YFR and ZFR are ICAO rules ; the FAA calls combined VFR/IFR flight plans composite flight plans ( see <URL> in the AIM ) and on a US domestic composite flight plan both VFR and IFR should be checked . Interestingly , the Lockheed Martin site does n't allow that .
One example of a system that can not be switched off by the pilot that is probably more common to all other airframes than just the one airframe I 'm indicating . Whenever electrical power is applied to a Gulfstream G550 , whether it is powered by battery , generators , an apu , or some external power source , each engine 's FADEC Electronic Engine Control ( EEC ) computer will be powered and the pilot can not switch them off . The pilot could only indirectly turns them off by switching off all power sources . However , when the engines are running , he ca n't even do that since there is an engine-driven generator dedicated to powering the EECs in the event of a total power loss . In fact , while the engine is running or even windmilling above 35 % rpm , the EEC 's dedicated generator is supplying all power to the EEC and there is no switch or circuit protection that can be manipulated by the pilot to interrupt it .
South African Airways flights to ' less developed ' locations in Africa often carry a mechanic and some spares on board . If there are no suitable repair facilities , supplies or maintenance personnel available at the destination , then their own guy can fix any minor mechanical issues . If there 's a major problem then they would have to fly in additional repair supplies and staff ( and fly out the stranded passengers ) . I found this out on a flight from Johannesberg to Lilongwe ( Malawi ) . A seat was broken in the passenger cabin and SAA 's on-board mechanic was able to fix it after a short delay . The captain explained briefly why he was on board . I assume that other airlines or operators who operate in undeveloped areas would do the same . It 's a lot cheaper to carry a mechanic and a few spares than it is to have an aircraft , crew and passengers stranded . If anything on the <URL> is broken then an airliner is n't airworthy so even a ' minor ' issue can ground it . I guess that the military might do the same for similar reasons , but I have no idea at all about that .
In general , no , you ca n't . Public ( Governmental ) Use The FAA maintains a page on <URL> . There are a couple of ways governmental organizations ( excluding the armed forces ) can fly a UAS : It can fly in accordance with the limitations set out in <URL> , which are that the FAA will : ( C ) allow a government public safety agency to operate unmanned aircraft weighing 4.4 pounds or less , if operated -- ( i ) within the line of sight of the operator ; ( ii ) less than 400 feet above the ground ; ( iii ) during daylight conditions ; ( iv ) within Class G airspace ; and ( v ) outside of 5 statute miles from any airport , heliport , seaplane base , spaceport , or other location with aviation activities . So , obviously , that 's a no-go for Bravo . It can apply for a <URL> from the FAA , which <URL> , The FAA works with these organizations to develop conditions and limitations for UAS operations to ensure they do not jeopardize the safety of other aviation operations . The objective is to issue a COA with parameters that ensure a level of safety equivalent to manned aircraft . Usually , this entails making sure that the UAS does not operate in a populated area and that the aircraft is observed , either by someone in a manned aircraft or someone on the ground to ensure separation from other aircraft in accordance with right-of-way rules . Common public uses today include law enforcement , firefighting , border patrol , disaster relief , search and rescue , military training , and other government operational missions . So , unless you have a really convincing argument , it sounds like the FAA is very unlikely to include in your COA authorization for your UAS to enter Class B ( or get anywhere near it , for that matter . ) Civil , Non-Hobbyist Operation The FAA also maintains a page on <URL> . That page summarizes how civil UAS operations can be approved as follows : There are presently two methods of gaining FAA authorization to fly civil ( non-governmental ) UAS : <URL> -- a grant of exemption in accordance with Section 333 AND a civil Certificate of Waiver or Authorization ( COA ) ; this process may be used to perform commercial operations in low-risk , controlled environments . Instructions for filing a petition for exemption are available <URL> . Surely , operating in Class B is n't " low risk " ( though I suppose you could argue it 's " controlled , " ) so this certainly seems like a no-go . <URL> -- applicants must be able to describe how their system is designed , constructed , and manufactured , including engineering processes , software development and control , configuration management , and quality assurance procedures used , along with how and where they intend to fly . a . <URL> -- may be used for civil aircraft to perform research and development , crew training , and market surveys ; however , carrying persons or property for compensation or hire is prohibited . <URL> is used by FAA inspectors to issue experimental airworthiness certificates and special flight permits to UAS . For more information , please contact the Airworthiness Certification Service , AIR-113 , at 202-267-1575 . If the FAA determines the project does not present an unreasonable safety risk , the local FAA Manufacturing Inspection District Office will issue a Special Airworthiness Certificate in the Experimental Category with operating limitations applicable to the particular UAS . b . A UAS <URL> ( 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 2 ) and § 21.185 ) for a special purpose or a type certificate for production of the UAS under 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 1 ) or § 21.17 . For more information , please contact the Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office at 562-627-5200 . ( Bold emphasis is mine , italics emphasis is from the FAA . ) For UASs with a Special Airworthiness Certificate , <URL> specifies in Chapter 3 , Section 1.3 ( Flight Test and Operating Area ) that : All proposed flight test and operating areas outside of restricted airspace must be approved by the FAA . Flight test and operating areas will be coordinated with the air traffic component of AFS-80 . and that : The flight test area and operating area must be over open water , or sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic . The FAA is required to evaluate each application to determine that the proposed flight area does not exceed that which is reasonably required to accomplish the program . Certainly , Class B does n't qualify as " sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic , " so this , too , seems to be a no-go .
end question
start question
How can I see all commercial destinations to a country from a particular airport ?
There can be a number of websites which can provide this information . Wikipedia and the specific airline 's website can be a great resource too . <URL> gives you a graphical representation of direct flights from a particular airport . It appears that this service is for all major airports across the globe . <URL> can provide the information you are looking for . As for your example , you 'll enter Las Vegas in the text area , and then leave the area blank . It will search all destinations ( grouped by countries ) where there are direct flights ( or with one stop ) available .
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
We were decoding Airborne Position frames having TypeCode , and . Apparently , frames with TypeCode and possibly have to be decode a different way . ( For now I think that I get enough information out of TypeCode frames so I 'll just skip the other ones . )
Location Identifiers &amp; Airline Designators data files available with daily updates The perfect solution to feeding your coding database . These files ( more information in right hand column ) are available as a 12 month subscription or a one-time web download . For the subscription , you will be granted access to the password protected extranet site upon purchase where you can retrieve the data files update daily . <URL>
The statement is apparently from the <URL> of <URL> at George Mason University . One form of fog that is formed in airports usually is radiation ( or ground ) fog . As the flat open surfaces in airport are prone to cooling overnight due to thermal radiation , the air close to the surface is also cooled to the dew point . This reduces the ability of the air to hold moisture , allowing condensation and fog to occur . One reason for the statement may be that open areas in the airport give up their heat much quicker than urban heat islands , which does not have flat surfaces prone to thermal radiation .
According to the <URL> ( 2 ) Private aircraft . The pilots of private aircraft are required to secure permission to land from CBP following transmission of the advance notice of arrival via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP , pursuant to § 122.22 . Prior to departure as defined in § 122.22 ( a ) , from a foreign port or place , the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from CBP that landing rights have been granted for that aircraft at a particular airport . This only matters if you are inbound from an out of country origin . An LRA airport is Landing rights airport . A landing rights airport is any airport , other than an international airport or user fee airport , at which flights from a foreign area are given permission by Customs to land .
Generally two groups have authority to close a runway ( or airport ) for an incident/emergency , and if either says it 's closed , it 's closed : The airport owner/operator/management . It 's their facility , so if they say it 's closed , it 's closed . Specifically it 's the persons authorized to issue NOTAMs for the airport who can close a runway ( by issuing the NOTAM saying it 's closed ) , but the chain of command for making this decision may vary from airport to airport . Runways may also be closed by airport administration without issuing a NOTAM ( this happens frequently at Brookhaven airport ( KHWV ) - <URL> will be put out on the crosswind runway when the banner tow operators are set up for pick-up/release on that runway ) . Often there 's a blanket NOTAM about " banner tow ops " or similar that sort-of covers this situation ( basically " Expect strange things to be happening because the banner tow people are doing ... whatever it is they do " . ) The control tower ( if one exists ) . Whether or not they have the administrative authority to " close " a runway , they certainly have the practical authority to do so by denying anyone clearance to take off/land from it or to enter it , and by issuing NOTAMs indicating that a runway is closed/unusable for some reason . At an airport like LaGuardia where you have both an FAA Control Tower and a robust airport operations/management group ( The Port Authority of New York &amp; New Jersey ) a Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU ) or similar agreement is likely in place to ensure that everyone knows who is authorized to do what when , but in cases like this where an aircraft has a runway excursion the course of action is pretty obvious and nobody is going to want aircraft to be moving around on the ground until the situation is under control and safety can be assured .
It is called " inboard aileron " or " high-speed aileron " and is actually a flaperon . It will deflect with the flaps but not extend backwards . At high speed , the outboard ailerons are locked and all roll control is achieved by deflecting the inboard ailerons ( and spoilers , if needed ) . This helps to reduce wing torsion and twist . Background : Since the trailing edge 's sweep angle has a break at the wing station of the engine , and since in Boeing aircraft the flaps extend perpendicularly to the hinge line , there must be a gap between inboard and outboard flaps , otherwise they would collide during extension . This gap is best placed in the station of the engine blast , and is filled with a simple hinged flap . Note that Airbus aircraft have rear-sliding flaps , which stay at a constant span location and can be adjacent to each other even at the wing station of the sweep change . Boeing 767 from below . Picture by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) The picture is of a Boeing 767 , but shows the flap arrangement nicely . Note the offset of the forward and rear part of the Küchemann bodies which house the flap tracks .
Changes to federal aviation regulations are listed on the FAA 's Regulatory &amp; Guidance Library ( RGL ) at <URL> : From the home page , click on the database titled " Code of Federal Regulations " On the left , in the navigation tree , select one of the branches under " Historical CFR " ( for example , " By Part " ) On the right , expand the items leading to the regulation that you are looking for ( in this case Part 61 ) Scroll down to the regulation that you are looking for ( 61.51 ) and it will list the original version and all of the revisions : Each revision is a link which takes you to the regulation as of that version , with links to the NPRM 's and dockets so that you can see what has been changed !
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
I have no practical experience with FAA RNP AR authorization but the guidelines for obtaining RNP AR authorization from the FAA are described in FAA Advisory Circular <URL> . The whole process to go through is described in that document . It specifically mentions Part 91 and Part 91K ( fractional ownership ) so it should be possible to obtain permission for individual pilots . However , it will not be easy for an individual pilot to meet the requirements . You will have to perform a high number of RNP AR approaches under a provisional authorization in VMC or increased minima before final authorization is granted . Luckily the FAA made provision for operators with a small fleet : NOTE : In unique situations where the completion of 100 successful approaches could take operators an unreasonably long period of time due to factors such as a small number of aircraft in the fleet , limited opportunity to use runways having appropriate procedures , etc. , consideration of a reduction in the required number of approaches will be on a case-by-case basis . The FSDO/CHDO will coordinate with FAA HQ in consideration of an operator 's request for reduced interim authorization requirements . You will need to arrange proper training : Initial training : With no prior RNP AR approach experience , each pilot must complete at least four RNP AR approach procedures : two as pilot flying and two as pilot monitoring.These four RNP AR approaches shall employ the uni que AR characteristics of the operator 's approved procedures ( i.e. , RF legs , RNP missed ) . You must fly two approaches to the DA and two approaches must result in an RNP missed approach procedure . Two of the above approaches will include interrupted approaches resulting in one approach with vectors to resume the approach and one approach resulting in a hold at an initial approach fix ( IAF ) or transition fix . And in addition to the a qualifying aircraft the operator must have a program to ensure data the navigation database stays up to date and is of sufficient quality . You will also need to implement a monitoring program to review your RNP AR approaches and detect any negative trends . Results from this program will need to be shared with the FAA on a monthly basis .
Interesting question . In the past , the preamble to the PTS showed reference material that can be used to throughout the PTS . With the new Airman Certification Standard ( ACS ) , those references are incorporated into each task . For slow flight below it lists the references as FAA-H-8083-2 , FAA-H-8083-3 and POH/AFM . <URL> <URL> Undoubtedly , it will list the Airplane Flying Handbook as a reference . All the maneuvers and techniques are in that book . It is generic and the POH takes preference if there are disagreements . <URL> <URL>
The passengers on Helios 522 were incapacitated or died due to hypoxia . Those masks in the aircraft only have enough oxygen to sustain the passengers while the plane descends to a safer altitude , or about 12 minutes . Helios 522 was on autopilot at 34,000 feet for 2 and a half hours . The autopsy showed that the passengers were alive at the time of the crash , but it could not determine if they were conscious . The aircraft was unpressurised at an altitude as high as the peak of Everest , the crew were incapacitated , so it follows that the passengers would have been as well , despite the fact that the autopsy showed that they were still alive at the time of the crash . Now , let 's suppose that they had survived the crash . They were hypoxic for 2 hours , which means they would have suffered brain damage and would be suffering with the long term effects of that ( Insomnia , amnesia , etc ) as well as injuries sustained from the crash itself .
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
If I wish to downgrade my software 's design assurance level ( DAL ) from Level A to Level C , what do I need to do ? DAL level A software is software which , if it fails , may have " catastrophic " results , defined as " Failure may cause multiple fatalities , usually with loss of airplane . " DAL level C , " Failure significantly reduces the safety margin or significantly increases crew workload . May result in passenger discomfort ( or even minor injuries ) . " So , to move your software from DAL level A to DAL level C , you 'll have to reduce the responsibility of your software . Your software 's operation or failure to operate can not : result in passenger major injury or fatality produce a large negative impact on safety or performance of the aircraft reduce the ability of the crew to operate the aircraft due to physical distress or higher workload ( though significant increases in workload is acceptable at Level C ) At most , your software 's operation or failure to operate may : Significantly reduce safety margins Significantly increase crew workload Result in passenger discomfort or minor injury If you can change your software , or change your customer 's use of the software ( ie , can not be used or installed as part of a safety critical control system ) , then the certifying authorities may allow your software to be certified at Level C . What are the benefits and drawbacks of doing this ? There are only 62 objectives that have to be met , and of those only 8 have to be verified by someone independent of the person who implemented the code that falls under that objective . While the number of objectives is only reduced a little ( 71 vs 62 ) , the number requiring independent verification is cut by over 75 % from 33 to 8 . This significantly reduces the amount of work required to meet certification requirements , mostly in traceability . The major drawback is that your software can not be used or incorporated into systems which require a higher level of compliance . So if your software is designed to control actuators and is currently certified to Level A , you might find that it 's being used to control flight surfaces on some planes . The move to Level C may , in that case , not require any software changes at all . If you stop performing the full traceability , tests , and meeting objectives with independence at Level A , and only perform those necessary for Level C , then your release under this new system will necessarily only be certified under Level C . The software can no longer be used to control flight surfaces , but if a new plane comes out with electronically adjustable air nozzles in the passenger compartment , it may be eligible for inclusion there where failure would , at worst , cause passenger discomfort and increase crew workload managing complaints about air vents being misdirected or opened/closed when the opposite is desired . If your software is an autopilot , though , then it will never be used if it does n't meet Level A . In this case , there 's no way to change your software or process to a lower level and expect it to be used - the usage of the software defines the level to which it must comply . In most cases , the usage will drive which level the software must be certified to , and there 's no real way ( or reason ) for you to change your level . It would cease to be useful software at the wrong level .
Just say direction of flight . If they need more info , they 'll ask : N12345 : Say destination . I 've almost never heard that , except if they think you might be headed towards weather or a TFR . Examples : Understand you 're headed to the south . Be aware of Stadium TFR in effect . or Understand you 're headed to the south ; have had reports of severe weather in that direction .
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
Jeff , I really appreciate that you ask for safety before asking for the price . Unfortunately it takes some experience and time at a school to say if the equipment and teaching methods are safe or not , but I 'll try my best to provide you with some of my insights into flight training . I personally tend to the bigger flight schools . Having a strict training concept and standardized methods is a huge benefit in safety . If the same teachers also do more advanced training like IR or MEP your PPL training will most probably also be more intense . Your training should concentrate on learning to fly not flying the nicest routes but of course you should also enjoy your time . That 's why you should of course also have a look at the people who are there . They should not only be friendly , but also be professional and well organised . The most annoying thing during flight training is bad organization and the changing of schedules due to absolutely avoidable reasons . Good maintenance is key for safety . Here again , a big flight school that can do it 's own maintenance has a lot of advantages . Often it happens that there are minor problems which should be fixed before the next flight without being a big safety hazard . It 's better to squawk this and wait ten minutes until maintenance has fixed it , rather then flying without having it fixed , or cancelling the lesson . If the flight school has its own maintenance and they are happy with their work they will tell you and also show you around . Honestly the only thing you can do is to look if the hangar looks clean and tidy . If you decide for a smaller school without its own maintenance , it should at least be done at the same airport . Otherwise this could cause regular delays in your training . Also think of yourself . During your solos and later when having your license you are allowed to and you will fly alone without an instructor . Be motivated to learn more than you have to . Know your aircraft and ask your questions . RTFM should not be the general answer of your flight school but you should spend some time doing it . I made a list with all my questions before visiting different flight school so I do n't forget to ask them . I would sugest you to do the same before getting there . If you for example ask for some more detailed information how many flight time you have to do with an instructor before flying solo and what exercises and maybe progress checks you 'll have to do prior to it , you 'll get a good insight how structured the flight training is . Also do n't forget to ask about the theoretical part . That 's really dependent on your self if you prefer to learn with books or with a teacher in front of you .
Your certificate level determines the type of operations you can conduct * , not the type of airplanes you can fly . The types of airplanes you can fly are determined by your category , class and type ratings . If you have a Private Pilot certificate with an instrument rating ( not sure if this is required , but you 'll want it either way ) and an airplane multi-engine land category and class and a B777 type rating , then yes , that person can operate the aircraft privately . He will also need an SIC and he will only be able to collect the pro-rata share of operating expenses from people he carries . He will also want to be careful in who he lets on his plane to avoid operations that are regulated under 14 CFR 119 . An example of such a pilot is John Travolta , who has a private pilot certificate with the following ratings : * Private pilots may only collect pro-rata operating expenses , Commercial pilots may be paid to act as PIC and ATPs may act as PIC in 14 CFR 121 operations .
Everyone collectively went " Oh god , not this one " because this same question has sparked some intense debates in the past . Aircraft rely on airflow over the airfoil ( wings/tail etc ) to produce lift - which is independent of the movement of the tires . This means that with enough air going over the wing , the aircraft will fly even if it is n't moving forward at all relative to the ground . This is why aircraft on ramps at airports need to be tethered to the ground . This is n't only to prevent them from rolling around , but from taking off should the air flow get fast enough over the wing . If you are interested in an entertaining segment , the MythBusters did a fairly scientific experiment of this . Although it is n't perfect , I think it does a good job of explaining the concepts .
end question
start question
Do airline SOP normally recommend an in-flight engine restart in the case of an unexplained shutdown ?
According to item 6-14 in the <URL> , you 're basically supposed to make sure that the engine is shut down completely and then divert to the nearest suitable airport . From The 737NG Abnormal Procedures Handbook ENGINE FAILURE/SHUTDOWN Condition : Loss of all thrust on an engine accompanied by illumination of the ENG FAIL alert or abnormal engine indications Accomplish an engine shutdown only when flight conditions permit . AUTOTHROTTLE ( if engaged ) : DISENGAGE THRUST LEVER ( affected engine ) : IDLE ENGINE START LEVER : CUTOFF APU ( if available ) : START &amp; ON BUS PACK SWITCH ( affected side ) : OFF FUEL : BALANCE If wing anti-ice is required : - ISOLATION VALVE SWITCH : AUTO Plan to land at the nearest suitable airport . ACCOMPLISH ONE ENGINE INOPERATIVE LANDING CHECKLIST ( BELOW ) So , if we 're going by the book , I think that diverting would be SOP . That being said , I 've read of several examples ( like <URL> and <URL> ) where the crew tried their best to restart the engine when one or both of the engines flamed out . So , while the book suggests just shutting the engine down and working on diverting , it seems the common practice is to work on diverting while also trying to start the engine again .
I did high altitude training about three months ago , up to 30,000 feet simulated altitude . Here 's the timeline : Within 30 seconds ( oximeter 100-95 ) : noticed physical symptoms beginning . I could tell that something was wrong , but felt functional . Within 60 seconds ( oximeter ~ 90 ) : mild headache . Still able to write my name . Not feeling good , but acceptable . Within 3 minutes ( oximeter ~ 80 ) : Able to do simple tasks when specifically directed ( thread a nut onto a bolt ) , but completely unable to multitask at even the simplest things ( tried to put my pen down ... did n't notice that I missed the desk - it landed on the floor . ) Within ?? minutes ( oximeter ~ 70 ) : I am no longer able to perceive the passage of time . No longer able to take meaningful notes . My signature is still legible - instinctive muscle memory apparently does n't degrade nearly as fast . Within 6 minutes ( oximeter unknown ) : I have taken another pen from my pocket and am playing <URL> with it . This is much more interesting than paying attention to the directions from the instructors . I do n't notice anything odd about my behavior . Immediately after : An instructor gives me a direct command to put my mask on . I comply . Total time in chamber : 7 minutes . Time of useful consciousness in chamber : about 2 minutes So , to answer your question : It depends . I can safely say that seven minutes at 30,000 foot environment wo n't guarantee death ( because I 've survived it ) , and it wo n't guarantee severe brain injury ( they let me keep flying ) but on the other hand , I 'm young and I exercise . The best answer I can give is the same one that applies to <URL> : Just because the guy before you was able to do it , does n't mean you 'll be able to do it .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
To provide instrument instruction the instructor must posses a valid CFI certificate with an " instrument airplane " rating . This is irrespective of the type of training device or airplane used with the caveat the instructor needs to be rated for the airplane ( either flown or being simulated ) . In other words , if you can not instruct in an airplane , you can not instruct in a training device either . The applicability of using the AATD is more of a program certification than an instructor pilot certification issue as there are different levels of training and special certifications for certain levels of training devices and simulators . See 14 CFR 61 , 141 , 142 for details about training programs and AATD use .
Most of the items you can bring with you to maximize your chances of surviving an in-flight emergency are items you 're not going to be allowed to bring with you . About the only things I could recommend bringing along on a commercial flight are your cellphone and a personal locator beacon ( PLB ) of some kind , but frankly if your airliner goes down ATC is going to know where you were when they lost contact , ( and the plane has an <URL> already ) . You should also wear sensible clothing -- natural fibers like wool or cotton are the order of the day if in-flight fire is a concern . Polyester or other synthetic fabrics will melt to your skin and cause you to have a Bad Time . More directly addressing your question though , the items that spring immediately to my mind ( and why you probably wo n't be taking them with you ) are : A parachute ( what prompted your question ) Sure , you can bring your parachute . It 's kind of a useless security blanket though . From cruise flight you 'd basically be executing a high-altitude jump <URL> . You would require oxygen to remain conscious longer than about 30-45 seconds ( though an automatic-opening chute may save you here ) , as well as protective clothing to survive the low temperatures while you 're free-falling . Those concerns aside , remember that airliner cabins are pressurized and the doors are typically " plug doors " that open inward . No human is strong enough to open that door with the cabin pressurized , and if you 've lost cabin pressure for some reason you 're better off putting on that little drop-down oxygen mask like the nice flight attendant told you to in the safety briefing . You 're not going to save yourself if you pass out from hypoxia while putting on your chute and trying to get to the door . An oxygen mask / smoke hood can be useful in a fire . Most airlines are not going to let you carry an oxygen cylinder onto the plane ( as others pointed out in comments , oxygen and in-flight fires can cause more problems than it solves ) . That holds true for pretty much any kind of compressed gas because really , how do they know what 's in that tank ? A smoke hood using a filter ( or a sealed rebreather hood ) with no compressed air supply may make it past security , but ask yourself honestly : " Am I proficient enough to use an emergency escape smoke hood in an in-flight emergency ? " -- If you ca n't answer " yes " you 're probably putting yourself ( and others ) in more danger wasting time donning the hood versus just getting out of the aircraft . A life vest ( if traveling over water ) This is overkill on an airliner ( though those of us that fly little planes should seriously consider flotation devices when flying over water ) . Your airline seat cushion really CAN be used as a flotation device . Those big yellow slides also detach from the plane and make marvelous floats . Frankly if you need any of these items you 're in a situation where having your own Mae West is n't going to really enhance your chances of survival . A utility knife capable of cutting your seatbelt This is incredibly useful for a bunch of reasons , not just cutting your way out of your seatbelt . In fact I keep one in my plane . Sharp and/or pointy things make airport security nervous though - if you try to take such an item on an airline flight it will likely be taken away from you before you get anywhere near the plane . Food and Water Useful if you have to make an emergency landing in a remote area , but frankly airliners already have beverages ( some may even still have food ) . If you 're carrying a light snack you 're as set as you 're going to be in this department . Emergency Blankets Nice to have , but most commercial aircraft already have shock blankets on board ( and much like food/water , this is really only useful if you have an otherwise uneventful landing in a remote area ) . If it makes you feel better to have your own blanket you can get pre-packed ones that can fit in basically any carry-on for about $ 5-10 . Signal flares Again , mainly useful if you have an emergency landing in a remote area ( and your PLB and the plane 's ELT do n't work for some reason ) . Flares are good both for signaling rescuers and for starting fires to keep warm . I do n't know if rescue flares are still routinely carried on commercial airliners , but I can say with reasonable certainty that you will not be allowed to carry on your own . They do n't let you smoke on most airlines these days - they 're certainly not going to let you carry on a self-igniting flare !
1 ) The software from various airline companies seems to be more or less of a standard . So they should work in a similar fashion . Which input is needed in order to make it work ( i.e. , altitude , lat/lon coordinates , temperature ) ? " Inputs " from the aircraft devices , like pitot , anemometer , gyro , etc. ? I do n't know . DeltaLima answered that for you . What you see on the screen is definately a software rendering , that means an operating system is running , and displays a frame on that screen device . The graphic is software-generated ( the map , the plane , its orientation , the text , the sun , the clouds , zooming , etc. ) So , at some point , the inputs signals ( altitude , cruise , heading ... ) has to be converted in computer bytes that will be handled by hardware devices of a computer , buffered in memory , then used by " some software " in the way they have been designed for . Option 1 : There 's a central Operating System ( OS ) that holds all the computable datas and feeds all onboard software on demand including FMS , IFE , etc. . Option 2 : There 's no central OS , but multiples ones , and a direct star-type ( tree ) data pipeline . Option 3 : IFE Software is a included in one OS that also run other softwares There are other Options , each one could be better called " onboard System " By the way , if , by " inputs " , you meant " how to make that tiny plane move along the map " , there are thousands of ways doing it , but the schemas is the same : draw a map ( use some gree/blue/brown color to make it look good enough ) draw a path using points locations on a X-Y ( invisible ) grid and line segments slam a top view of a plane on all of that at a precise X-Y location ( and do n't forget to rotate the plane icon in the correct heading or your passengers will start to panick ) No matter how beautiful the flightpath could be rendered , remember it 's a computer generated graphic , and does n't need to be accurate at all . For example , refreshing could be set at an interval of 5 seconds instead of real time ( 5 seconds is good enough even for steep turns on final ) The map resolution does n't require a milimetric precision . 1000ft or 500ft lateral precision could suffice , and even if the displayed ( text ) altitude is in feet , the 3D rendering does n't care about that at all : it uses a fraction of that altitude , then accordinly shifts the position of the aircraft model on the screen to give you the impression the aircraft is at an higher altitude ... That the logical way the flightpath software requires . Accuracy and physics computations are not required , unless you want to create a game or even better , a simulator ( in terms of reproducing nearly-real behaviour in a virtual world ) GoogleEart 's Flight game for example is n't as precise as many other games out there ( Lock On , X-Plane ... ) But for all of those , the " inputs " are all binary datas stored in memory and used as variables by the software . Turning a plane is n't dependent on a heading value . It 's one block of the software code that reads the heading variable , then rotate the object ( the plane ) by the corresponding angular value , then another block of the software code draws ( renders ) the object on a screen buffer . Finally , the screen buffer is passed to the displaying device ( your IFE screen ) and each pixel of that screen shows what has been calculated by the software for the human eyes . In the end , what you see on a screen - ANY screen wether it 's your TV , the IFE , your computer screen when you read this answer , your phone screen - is a series of slideshows pictures rendered by the screen device one image after another . But it 's done so fast that the human eyes ( or brain actually ) think what is shown is really moving . It 's not , but looks like . 2 ) Is it possible to acquire one version of this software and run it offline as a simulation , giving as input the needed information ? I tend to say yes ! but wait ! Good luck finding that software though . You should ask someone working for an IFE system provider for aircraft manufacturer . And note one thing : Such softwares could be packed in some hardware components having an inbuilt memory card , this preventing anyone from copying that very software while it is successfully loaded in the IFE OS just like any other software loaded from disk/CDs/USBs ... Of course you ca n't unplug the hardware device from the IFE hardware motherboard , and plug it on your computer motherbord , that wont make it . . Just like your phone ( wether android or iphone or whatever ) the firmware is burried deep in one hardware component . You ca n't easily copy a firmware from an iphone to a nexus . . :P But at one point , those softwares has to be created on a computer , then , have their " saved as files " state in the computers of the enterprises creating them . As you could have guessed , chances to get a copy of such software is pretty . . non existent , not because it 's nearly impossible , but because such software are copyrighted , and/or the ( hardware ) system supposed
Here are a couple of examples from two studies that have a lot more detail and background information on pilot incapacitation in general . From <URL> : After a normal touchdown , the first officer became unconscious at the flight controls and the aircraft began to veer to the right of the centreline . The captain took control of the aircraft to return to the centreline and completed the landing From <URL> : A 45-year-old B-737 first officer experiencing an alcohol withdrawal seizure suddenly screamed , extended his arms up rigidly , pushed full right rudder , and slumped over the yoke during an approach . The aircraft descended to 1,000 feet above ground level in an uncoordinated turn to 25 degrees angle of bank before flight attendants could pull the first officer off the controls , allowing the captain to recover the airplane
The procedure used would depend on which information is conflicting/unreliable ( and of course the aircraft type ) . With one or more unreliable airspeed indications ( which is one of the more critical ones ) , the initial action is NOT to start troubleshooting/figuring out which indicator is " the correct one " , but to ensure safe speed/flight path by other means . The initial actions on Boeing aircraft is to disconnect automatics ( auto throttle , autopilot , flight director ) and control the aircraft given memorized combinations of pitch and thrust . With the aircraft under control , and when directed by the checklist , you start analyzing the situation , to see if you can rectify/isolate the faulty source . If a reliable source can not be determined , the aircraft continues to be flown by pitch/thrust settings given in the manual ( based on altitude , if known , weight , flaps/gear , desired vertical profile etc ) . In the case of unreliable altitude , in case you ca n't determine a reliable source , you can typically use radio altitude below 2 ' 500 ft. A big caveat is that if the transponder is set to use an unreliable static pressure source , the altitude that ATC sees on secondary radar will also be unreliable . An example of this was seen in the Aeroperú 603 accident , where the aircraft took off , with the static ports taped over , and ATC was asked to assist with altitude and speed information : <URL> - <URL> Erroneous airspeed/altitude indications often imply each other , as an unreliable static pressure source will affect both .
The FAA has some rules pending about this , you can read <URL> but for drones under 55 LBS one of the proposed rules is , Must yield right-of-way to other aircraft , manned or unmanned . and since you bring up class E it should be noted that Operations in Class B , C , D and E airspace are allowed with the required ATC permission . if/when this goes through it looks like its the drone operators fault since the plane had the right of way According to the <URL> they state that , ( 4 ) the aircraft is operated in a manner that does not interfere with and gives way to any manned aircraft ; this is pretty much a blanket statement that maned aircraft have the right of way but the FAA handles most things on a case by cases basis so in the end of the day it could go either way .
These designators are assigned , on request , by ICAO . The request is made by the applicant through their National Aviation Autority . There are actually two designators : the ICAO three letter code and the ICAO R/T designator . All assigned designators are published in <URL> . Two things are to be considered : The three letter code must be unique to the aircraft operator The R/T designator ( callsign ) must not cause confusion with other operators flying in the same area , preferably at most three syllables long and it must be pronounceable in at least one of the following languages ; English , French , Spanish or Russian . Since there are many operators that have " airline " or " airways " in their name , that word is usually avoided in the R/T designator as it easily causes confusion . For pilots it is not too difficult , they are typically paying attention specifically to their own R/T callsign . For controllers it is more difficult since they have to associate the three letter code on their screen with R/T designators that or not related in an obvious way . For example : British Airways has three letter code BAW and R/T designator " SPEEDBIRD " . Thomas Cook Airlines Ltd has three letter code TCX , and R/T designator " KESTREL " . Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium has three letter code TCW , and R/T designator " THOMAS COOK " . Thomson Airways has three letter code TOM , and R/T designator " TOMSON " Since the application goes through the NAA , there are slight differences in the procedure from country to country . Some examples are listed below : Netherlands <URL> USA <URL> and <URL> . <URL>
FlightRadar and similar websites use <URL> for aircraft detection , most commonly they use <URL> . Not all General Aviation aircraft , to which helicopters would count normally , are equipped with transponders that are capable of emitting ADS-B data , so they would not show via regular means on FlightRadar . The primary technology that Flightradar24 use to receive flight information is called automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ADS-B ) . ADS-B is a relatively new technology under development which means that today it 's rarely used by Air Traffic Control ( ATC ) . Our estimations show that roughly 65 % of all commercial passenger aircraft ( 75 % in Europe , 35 % in the US ) are equipped with an ADS-B transponder . For general aviation this number is probably below 20 % . But this percentage is steadily increasing as ADS-B will become mandatory for most aircraft in most airspaces around the world , by year 2020 . When mandatory , ADS-B will replace primary radar as the primary surveillance method used by ATC . Flightradar24 has a network of more than 4,000 ADS-B receivers around the world that receives plane and flight information from aircraft with ADS-B transponders and sends this information to our servers . Due to the high frequency used ( 1090 MHz ) the coverage from each receiver is limited to about 250-400 km ( 150-250 miles ) in all directions depending on location . The farther away from the receiver an aircraft is flying , the higher it must fly to be covered by the receiver . The distance limit makes it very hard to get ADS-B coverage over oceans . About 99 % of Europe is covered with ADS-B receivers . There is also good ADS-B coverage in USA , Canada , Mexico , Caribbean , Brazil , Russia , Middle East , India , Japan , Thailand , Malaysia , Indonesia , Australia and New Zealand . In other parts of the world the ADS-B coverage varies . The other option is to receive the regular Mode-S transponder signal by a technique called <URL> , however the FlightRadar website states that this is something that only works reliably at high altitude , at least 5 000 to 10 000 ft. In some regions with coverage from several FR24-receivers we also calculate positions of non-ADS-B equipped aircraft with the help of Multilateration ( MLAT ) , by using a method known as Time Difference of Arrival ( TDOA ) . By measuring the difference in time to receive the signal from aircraft with an older ModeS-transponder , it 's possible to calculate the position of these aircraft . Four FR24-receivers or more , receiving signals from the same aircraft , are needed to make MLAT work . That means that MLAT coverage can only be achieved above about 5,000-10 ,000 feet as the probability that signal can be received by four or more receivers increases with increased altitude . Most parts of Europe are today covered with MLAT above about 5,000-10 ,000 feet . There is also some MLAT coverage in North America , Mexico , Australia and Brazil . More areas will get MLAT coverage during 2014 and 2015 . For more information , check <URL> page .
Drag ( and lift ) increases with density . Density decreased and so did drag . So at the same power , you can fly faster . Now I do n't know whether reduction of power of a normally aspirated spark-ignition reciprocating engine at constant throttle setting would be higher or lower than the reduction of drag . But the question says power setting .
No . You do not need to create new airways . You stick up to the already existent waypoints or not , if the route flies through a segment of free-route airspace . Also , the engineering department of the airline studies the route , for instance : computes the MSA ( Minimum Safe Altitude ) for every point , engine failure and depressurization simulations are done in order to avoid possible hazards in critical points , if the aircraft is ETOPS certified they will decide which alternative airports are available for the route , fuel computations , chart generation for arrival and departure ( most of the airlines use their own charts instead of those provided by the ANSP ) , et cetera . Each airline has its own policy and the process may vary but fundamentally the procedure done is to make a study of all the parameters that can affect to guarantee safety and efficiency .
In general , no , you ca n't . Public ( Governmental ) Use The FAA maintains a page on <URL> . There are a couple of ways governmental organizations ( excluding the armed forces ) can fly a UAS : It can fly in accordance with the limitations set out in <URL> , which are that the FAA will : ( C ) allow a government public safety agency to operate unmanned aircraft weighing 4.4 pounds or less , if operated -- ( i ) within the line of sight of the operator ; ( ii ) less than 400 feet above the ground ; ( iii ) during daylight conditions ; ( iv ) within Class G airspace ; and ( v ) outside of 5 statute miles from any airport , heliport , seaplane base , spaceport , or other location with aviation activities . So , obviously , that 's a no-go for Bravo . It can apply for a <URL> from the FAA , which <URL> , The FAA works with these organizations to develop conditions and limitations for UAS operations to ensure they do not jeopardize the safety of other aviation operations . The objective is to issue a COA with parameters that ensure a level of safety equivalent to manned aircraft . Usually , this entails making sure that the UAS does not operate in a populated area and that the aircraft is observed , either by someone in a manned aircraft or someone on the ground to ensure separation from other aircraft in accordance with right-of-way rules . Common public uses today include law enforcement , firefighting , border patrol , disaster relief , search and rescue , military training , and other government operational missions . So , unless you have a really convincing argument , it sounds like the FAA is very unlikely to include in your COA authorization for your UAS to enter Class B ( or get anywhere near it , for that matter . ) Civil , Non-Hobbyist Operation The FAA also maintains a page on <URL> . That page summarizes how civil UAS operations can be approved as follows : There are presently two methods of gaining FAA authorization to fly civil ( non-governmental ) UAS : <URL> -- a grant of exemption in accordance with Section 333 AND a civil Certificate of Waiver or Authorization ( COA ) ; this process may be used to perform commercial operations in low-risk , controlled environments . Instructions for filing a petition for exemption are available <URL> . Surely , operating in Class B is n't " low risk " ( though I suppose you could argue it 's " controlled , " ) so this certainly seems like a no-go . <URL> -- applicants must be able to describe how their system is designed , constructed , and manufactured , including engineering processes , software development and control , configuration management , and quality assurance procedures used , along with how and where they intend to fly . a . <URL> -- may be used for civil aircraft to perform research and development , crew training , and market surveys ; however , carrying persons or property for compensation or hire is prohibited . <URL> is used by FAA inspectors to issue experimental airworthiness certificates and special flight permits to UAS . For more information , please contact the Airworthiness Certification Service , AIR-113 , at 202-267-1575 . If the FAA determines the project does not present an unreasonable safety risk , the local FAA Manufacturing Inspection District Office will issue a Special Airworthiness Certificate in the Experimental Category with operating limitations applicable to the particular UAS . b . A UAS <URL> ( 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 2 ) and § 21.185 ) for a special purpose or a type certificate for production of the UAS under 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 1 ) or § 21.17 . For more information , please contact the Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office at 562-627-5200 . ( Bold emphasis is mine , italics emphasis is from the FAA . ) For UASs with a Special Airworthiness Certificate , <URL> specifies in Chapter 3 , Section 1.3 ( Flight Test and Operating Area ) that : All proposed flight test and operating areas outside of restricted airspace must be approved by the FAA . Flight test and operating areas will be coordinated with the air traffic component of AFS-80 . and that : The flight test area and operating area must be over open water , or sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic . The FAA is required to evaluate each application to determine that the proposed flight area does not exceed that which is reasonably required to accomplish the program . Certainly , Class B does n't qualify as " sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic , " so this , too , seems to be a no-go .
The FAA says ( per 14 CFR 91.185 ) : If the clearance limit is not a fix from which an approach begins , leave the clearance limit at the expect-further-clearance time if one has been received , or if none has been received , upon arrival over the clearance limit , and proceed to a fix from which an approach begins and commence descent or descent and approach as close as possible to the estimated time of arrival as calculated from the filed or amended ( with ATC ) estimated time en route . This seems to answer your question unless you have a more specific one . You can descend to an IAF as you see fit and commence any approach . ATC will clear the way .
In general yes , but depending on how close the aircraft was to completion they have to live with a different cabin and cockpit layout than what they are used to or would had ordered themselves .
If fuel contamination is suspected ( because of engine control system fault indications , slow engine responses or rapid engine pressure ratio ( EPR ) fluctuations ) , there is an associated checklist procedure to followed which can confirm the contamination : Fuel contamination checklist as posted by " 330 skipper " at Nov 24th 2017 13:47 Z <URL> : If ENG 1 ( 2 ) CTL SYS FAULT alert triggered associated with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE , and with rapid and continuous EPR fluctuation indications on both engines : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... OFF If EPR fluctuations stop on both engines : ECAM PROC ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... APPLY A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... KEEP OFF If EPR fluctuations continue on both engines : FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If ENG 1 CTL SYS FAULT and ENG 2 CTL SYS FAULT alerts triggered with AVOID RAPID THR CHANGES or ENG 1 ( 2 ) SLOW RESPONSE : A/THR ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . OFF FUEL CONTAMINATION CONFIRMED Apply condition : If fuel contamination confirmed If fuel contamination confirmed : LAND ASAP <URL> In addition , the Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) has the following procedure to be followed if fuel contamination is confirmed : <URL> Special thanks to <URL> for providing the images of the procedure and the FCOM
There are several reasons , mostly historical , or theories behind this : After World War I , most airplanes had rotary engines with left turning tendencies because it followed the torque of the engine . Therefore , turning left was easier than turning right . Because of this , pilots considered left turns as more convenient maneuver , and thus more experienced pilot started sitting on the left . Since the early days of aviation , the fact that pilot was sitting on the left , they keep the airplane on the right side along the airway . At that time , pilots often navigate visually following roads and railways . Opposite traffic following the same path then pass each other on the left . Because captain sits on the left , left-hand traffic patterns are more common . In order to avoid a head-on collision , each airplane must turn right . Since the captain sits on the left , they will have an unrestricted view of the other airplane , and therefore can assess the situation easily . In modern times , almost all airplanes ( other than single-pilot airplanes or where one pilot sits behind the other ) , both seats have full controls to fly the airplane . Regulations do not specify which seat should be occupied by the pilot-in-command ( PIC ) or the Pilot Flying ( PF ) . Please note that <URL> . Bibliography : <URL> <URL> <URL>
GDS stands for <URL> : A Global Distribution System ( GDS ) is a network operated by a company that enables automated transactions between travel service providers ( mainly airlines , hotels and car rental companies ) and travel agencies . Travel agencies traditionally relied on GDS for services , products &amp; rates in order to provision travel-related services to the end consumers . A GDS can link services , rates and bookings consolidating products and services across all three travel sectors : i.e. , airline reservations , hotel reservations , car rentals . These are the databases that maintain travel reservations and allow travel agents to see available inventory and book tickets . As noted in the Wikipedia article , they may also host airlines ' <URL> and <URL> . For example , <URL> operates a system used by hundreds of airlines , not to mention thousands of hotels , rental car companies , tour operators , and other travel businesses to maintain reservations and track inventory , and a global distribution system used by tens of thousands of travel agencies , ranging from storefronts to online booking websites , that allows agents to book travel with these providers .
All commercial aircraft have some form of redundancy in their instrumentation , but it 's not always in the form of " analog " instruments . The backup is often electronic itself . But the overall system is designed with a very high level of redundancy . A typical modern jet aircraft has an <URL> ( EFIS ) , which is the large screen Primary Flight Display ( PFD ) you see in front of both pilots . There are usually also one or more Multifunction Displays ( MFDs ) in the middle between the pilots . These displays form the primary instrumentation . The EFIS itself is designed with a very high level of redundancy between the pilot 's and copilot 's side displays . Both are on independent electrical circuits and receive information from independent input computers ( <URL> [ ADC ] , <URL> [ AHRS ] , etc. ) . Both can usually also be switched over to the other set of input computers . Usually , the MFD can also be configured in a " reversionary " mode where it looks and acts like a PFD . If the entire EFIS system should fail , there is also a backup set of instruments . In modern times this backup is usually one or two <URL> ( ESIS ) . These are essentially smaller , condensed " PFDs " that display critical information . They usually either contain their own miniature AHRS/ADCs or are connected to isolated computers . They are also powered on a totally independent electrical circuit and often have their own dedicated battery as well , separate from the main aircraft battery . Modern engines are controlled by completely different computers called <URL> or FADECs . Two or more FADEC channels are provided for each engine , so that if either channel fails , the other can take over . FADECs are also considered flight-critical items , and are designed with fail-passive capability : even if both FADEC channels fail , the engines can still run and be controlled more primitively and less efficiently . Electronic pressurization controllers do n't always have redundant computer modules , but a manual pressurization control mode is always provided . In the worst case , the pilot has the ability to manually open or close the cabin outflow valve to control cabin pressure . And redundant pressurized air sources are available from each engine .
end question
start question
Why are the wings of some planes changing width ?
Well , yes , bigger wings to provide better lift , but the also produce more induced drag in the process . The wings on an airliner are optimized for cruise in high subsonic and transonic flight where a slender , swept wing works well . While this is great for cruise flight , the trade-off is this style of wing requires a very high approach speed for landings which in turn require very long runways to accelerate the airplane on to reach rotation speed for takeoff or to decelerate the aircraft on once it has landed . The Boeing Company successfully addressed these problems in the early 1960 with the development of the 727 airplane as a regional airliner . It made use of a type of flaps called <URL> ( see Fig 1 ) in concert with leading edge extensions . Fowler flaps . These style of flaps consist of a series of segments attached to tracks or support linkages running chordwise , allowing the flaps segments to extend and retract by rolling along said tracks . <URL> Fig 1 . Typical Fowler flap installation When deployed these give the effect of changing the airfoil shape from a slender , slightly cambered airfoil into a wide airfoil with a large camber . Fowler flaps have an additional advantage to them in that partial deployment creates a large increase in lift with limited additional drag , very useful for takeoff , while when fully deployed they create a lot of drag in addition to higher lift .
Indeed the US and the rest of the world handle this differently . In the US , if you are cleared to a flight level or altitude , you change the altimeter setting as you are about to cross the transition level ( 18,000 @ 29.92 ) . [ When ] descending , even if cleared to an altitude at the time the cruising level is vacated , the altimeters will remain on standard pressure until just prior to the transition level . Unless cleared in a climb to FL180 , then the change is done a bit earlier . In Europe and elsewhere , the change of the altimeter setting is done as soon as you start climbing or descending to the cleared flight level or altitude . climbing and cleared to a FL - set Standard Pressure Setting ( QNE/1013 mb ) ; descending and cleared to an altitude - set QNH . Between the TA and TL no altitude/level can be assigned . If the local pressure is too low , what floats ( rises ) is the TL . The same for the US : If the altimeter setting is lower , the lowest useable FL becomes FL190 or even FL200 . This restriction ensures that a minimum of 1000 ' vertical separation is maintained between the aircraft at 17000 ' on QNH and the one at the lowest useable level on Standard Pressure Setting ( QNE ) . If the TL is FL150 as in your example , you will not be cleared to 15,000 feet . You will be cleared to FL150 . Based on the above , you will maintain 1013 ( QNE ) until cleared to an altitude . The same for the US , you wo n't be given an altitude of 18,000 , it will be FL180 whether going up or down . <URL> ( <URL> ) Source : <URL>
For serial number 31-35 - Pilot seems to be Brookley , Wendell H - Homebase seems to have been Wright Field , Dayton , OH <URL> For serial number 31-85 - Pilot seems to be Larkin , James D. - Homebase seems to have been Boeing Field , Seattle , WA <URL> <URL>
MiG-23 For the MiG-23 , it was manual . [ The ] MiG-23 had a completely manual wing sweep control . But there was no gauge to indicate optimum wing position for the surrounding conditions . " You had to manually put the wings into position to safely fly the airplane , " [ ... ] " They had a very nice gauge that showed where the wings were commanded to , where the wings actually were if they were still in motion , and what the Mach limit was associated with that wingsweep position . " -- <URL> p. 176 From <URL> we learn the sweep steps were 16 ° , 45 ° , and 72 ° -- for one of the variants at least -- which makes it easy to find that gauge . Here it is magnified below with the limiting Mach number ( M2 .35 ) and Velocity ( 1400 km/h indicated ; 756 KIAS ) for the current selected max sweep of 72 ° . <URL> ( <URL> ) Su-17 / 20/22 It started as a two-position wing , then it was upgraded1 so that the wing can stop anywhere between 30 ° and 63 ° . This improved the flight range . Below , КРЫЛО means wing . And ОТКЛ means off , or deactivate -- ОТКЛЮЧИТЬ . This leads me to conclude it too was manual despite the advanced avionics the Su-17 family carried . <URL> ( <URL> ) The wing control switch and position indicator are on the left glareshield . 1 Source : <URL> Bonus : <URL> showing the pilot using that switch
In the US , ATC simply broadcasts a notification on whatever frequency is needed . For the terminal environment , section 2-9-2 of the <URL> says : Broadcast on all appropriate frequencies to advise aircraft of a change in the ATIS code/message . The phraseology is usually something like this : Attention all aircraft , Bowman information Kilo is now current . For en route operations ( see section 2-7-2 ) the ARTCC gives altimeter setting updates directly : Attention all aircraft , the Nashville altimeter now 2992
The attachment rail/track width ( gauge ) is not fixed . It differs from plane to plane , and the chosen seat manufacturer obliges . 21 " or 55 cm seems the average though . <URL> Source : <URL> Above image shows B717 cross section , you can notice the 3-abreast and 2-abreast both are on two rails . No high-res available . Different plane models : <URL> Some are wall mounted .
There are two philosophies for fleet selection : One type / model or one manufacturer approach Multi manufacturer divide and conquer approach First of all , a single model fleet is only possible for airlines that operate on sectors of comparable length . You ca n't do intercontinental and regional flights with the same aircraft model efficiently . As you observe , there are obviously costs associated with flying different types of aircraft . A single type fleet like for example Ryanair ( B738 ) , Southwest ( B73 * ) and Easyjet ( A320 family ) operate , means the cost of maintenance , training , etc can be kept low . Adding a few aircraft of another type to the fleet would mean additional tools in stock , diversified training and a separate flight crew group and lots of other cost factors . Aircraft manufacturers know that too . So if you need another 10 - 20 aircraft , your standard supplier will ask a high price for this fleet extension , knowing that the competition is never able to put in a compelling offer when all additional cost are taken into account . Only if the batch size is large enough the competitor might be able to offset the additional costs with a unit discount . That is where the mixed fleet operator has an advantage . Since the additional overhead costs of a couple extra aircraft from type A or B are minimal , they <URL> while negotiating with the manufacturers . Single manufacturer airlines usually order aircraft in <URL> , otherwise they would not get a proper deal ; multi type airlines can order aircraft in lower numbers . And then there are politics . Sometimes a national airline will be subjected to political pressure to buy from a certain manufacturer . This is especially the case for airlines operating in the international / intercontinental market . The extra fleet cost incurred will be ( partially ) offset by deals in another field .
Often times fuel injected engines can be difficult to start with the mixture rich , particularly if run recently and still hot . Following a priming procedure with the electric boost pump then cranking with the mixture at idle cutoff allows the engine to flush out fuel from the injector manifold until an optimal fuel air mixture is reached and the engine starts up . Quickly moving the mixture to full rich at this point will stabilize the engine at idle with an appropriate throttle setting .
Your interpretation of the answer to that question is a bit wrong . It would be an error to claim that delta wings do n't perform well at low speed . Delta wings perform exceptionally well at low speeds . The correct interpretation is delta wings are not fuel efficient . And this is true at low and high speeds . There are advantages to delta wings at both high and low speeds . The following list are some of the known advantages : Improved handling at high Mach numbers due to swept leading edge ( note : this is the same advantage as swept wings but with the down side of being draggy when performing manoeuvres - swept wing planes retain much more kinetic energy after a turn ) . Intrinsically strong structurally ( it 's a triangle ! ) thus can be built much lighter . Retains quite a lot of rudder effectiveness at low speeds and high angles of attack ( this is unintuitive because you 'd think the wing would block airflow to the rudder but the strong vortex shedding on the leading edge maintains flow around the rudder ) . Have very wide CG range compared to conventional aircraft . This is especially useful in bombers . Have very benign and gentle stall behaviour . This is especially useful for paper airplanes since it can prolong flight at low speeds ( paper airplanes simply dip their noses and regain speed instead of simply diving and crashing ) . The major disadvantage is that it is draggy . Thus not fuel efficient . Thus in a business world where profit and cost matters delta wings are not attractive . For supersonic flights the drag is apparently roughly on par with swept wings . Except , as mentioned above , due to the geometry of the wing it can be built lighter thus save fuel - so it sort of cancels out . For toy planes , where efficiency is not of great concern ( fun and " cool " is more important ) delta wings are OK . Still , if you use the same sheet of paper and built a long , narrow , cambered wing like this : <URL> . . you 'll find that the long narrow winged plane flies much further than the delta wing paper airplane given the same launch speed .
The signs on top of the jet bridges are useful in identifying your assigned gate . Without these signs it would be easy to misidentify a neighboring gate if it also had a ground crew ready to accept an airplane . They are also useful for keeping an eye on an occupied gate from a distance while you wait for an aircraft to leave . They are also illuminated which helps locating the right gate at night or in low light . The electronic signs high on the terminal building are helpful to aircrew and ground crews . They often list aircraft info , departure/arrival airports and time to scheduled pushback . The on ground painted lines are useful for initially lining up for a gate and in making the elaborate maneuvers required getting into certain tightly spaced gates . Once you get this close you are being guided by ground crew and have wing walkers watching your clearances . The final painted ground positions for nosewheel position ( by aircraft type ) are only useful to the ground staff guy with the wands -- you ca n't see them yourself when needed .
This answer was difficult to find as both Flight Operation Manuals and Maintenance Manuals did not say . The only guidance was found in the system description provided by the OEM of the BCSU . I am not mentioning the fleet type because at some point the detailed description might become proprietary . According to the description I found for a given automatic braking system is that it is armed when the pilot presses one of the three pushbutton switches which set the auto-brake level . The system will only arm if gear up is not commanded , there is hydraulic pressure as needed , and no existing faults exist that prohibit normal braking , as well as a few other computers available on the associated data bus . There is nothing that says the system ca n't be armed after touchdown , however the system will only engage when the spoilers are being activated , or are activated . Or more precisely from the black-box point of view automatic braking is engaged whenever two spoiler signals in three appear once automatic braking has been armed . In other words , once armed , the automatic braking will only engage if spoilers are sending the signal that they are being activated , or are activated . It specifically says that the pilot can select another pushbutton switch even after arming . The BSCU acknowledges this new command and executes the corresponding task . Automatic braking is released whenever the braking sequence is interrupted : when an arming condition disappears , when an engaging condition disappears , when one or both brake pedals are held down beyond the defined threshold , when the selected pushbutton is pressed again . The question , therefore is ' After you have already armed at a given setting and the system is actually engaged , because the spoiler actuation has initiated auto-braking , what happens when you press another setting ? ' As long as the arming conditions still exist , which in most cases would , and as long as the engage conditions exist , as would be the case if the spoilers are activated ( at least 2 of three spoiler signals being sent to the BSCU ) , then yes , you may change the setting after touchdown and the BSCU acknowledges this new command and executes the corresponding task .
What kind of plane is good for this type of flight ? The cheap kind . Joking aside , the exact airplane to use depends on the size of the banners or billboards you 're going to be towing , but generally speaking you want something reasonably rugged , with good slow flight characteristics , sufficient engine power to be able to overcome the added drag from the banner , and , hopefully , some decent fuel consumption . I 'm not entirely kidding about the cheap part though ; banner towing is hard on the airplanes and carries a higher-than-average degree of risk , so you do want to stay away from airplanes that will be expensive to fix , if you can help it . As for specific types , I 've seen banners towed with everything from -152 s to Grumman Agcats ; a large banner tow operation apparently had a Super Cub with an O-540 bolted to it , so you 'll see a ton of different things , but tailwheels seem to be the norm , at least in the US , and many outfits will make additional modifications such as removing engine cowlings to help with cooling . With banners they appear to be flying slower than usual . Is this just an illusion ? No , they are indeed flying slower . First of all , the added drag from the banner slows the airplane down all by itself . Secondly , you 're being paid to advertise , so you want to make sure that people can read whatever sign you 're towing . You 're not flying the ragged edge of the stall ( it 's dangerous , uneconomical , and unnecessarily hard on the engine ) , but you 're probably going to be flying on the backside of the power curve . What are the practical or regulatory requirements that the plane must meet to be capable ? In addition to the practical considerations we 've talked about above , banner towing operations require a waiver from the FAA . The company has to apply for it and every pilot must be trained in banner tow operations , pass a review from an approved FAA inspector ( who will be watching you perform picks and drops from the ground ) , and be added to the waiver . The aircraft and tow hitch mechanisms also have to be inspected and approved for banner tow operations , and added to the waiver . <URL> is the current FAA Banner Tow Information handbook , covering equipment , operations , waiver information , and other assorted miscellaneous if you 're curious to learn more .
The reason for not using full aircraft parachutes can be stitched together by looking at the many related questions . Let me do this for you : Parachutes will only help when something essential fails at <URL> . As paul said <URL> , most accidents happen at take-off and landing where a parachute can not be successfully deployed . Parachutes big enough to slow down a whole airliner will be very heavy , reducing payload and increasing the number of flights to transport the same number of passengers . The biggest parachutes designed so far were for the <URL> , and <URL> gave their mass a 3 x 990 kg plus 550 kg for the drogue chute . Wikipedia gives the mass of one SRB at 91,000 kg . Scale this for the zero-fuel mass of an <URL> of 62,500 kg , and the mass will be approx . 2,500 kg . That is equivalent to 25 passengers , or 16 % of the A-320 's capacity . Adding the parachute will translate into 16 % more flights , just to compensate for parachute mass . This is most likely underestimating the true impact because I did not add the mass for structural reinforcements . The opening shock at travel speed would destroy both airplane and chutes . If we want the parachute system to work in as many cases as possible , we need to make deployment possible at up to Mach 0.85 , and then the maximum g-load on aircraft and passengers must not exceed 6 g. ( See <URL> for <URL> which give time - and direction-dependent limits for the maximum deceleration a human being can survive ) . This is possible with staggered deployment of several chutes with increasing size , and by sewing parts of the canopy and the parachute 's strings together , so they can rip apart during opening , which slows the unfolding process . But I expect that this will add to the mass of the parachute system . It will certainly add to the mass of the aircraft 's structure , which is currently limited to <URL> g. By looking at point 2 above alone , it becomes clear that the addition of parachutes will most likely drive up air travel casualties . If we need 16 % more flights to make the cruise part less dangerous , and still <URL> ( which are now 16 % more numerous ) , we gain little . Crashes now involve less passengers , but their number goes up . Tickets will become 20 % more expensive at least ( more if the parachute system costs something , which is very likely ) , and we all know how the majority of passengers votes when faced with a choice of dearer , somewhat safer flights and 20 % cheaper flights at almost the same accident risk .
What are most of these civilian helicopters in North America being used for ? As listed below , Medical and Police use are quite common in the US . The Coast guard runs a <URL> and divers along with their boats . Many news stations also <URL> for traffic and other areal coverage . There is a fairly sizable <URL> from rotocraft . There is even a case for <URL> . There is of course a large market here in the US for <URL> in the US . This is at least in part due to the <URL> of private flying in the states . The US airspace system is largely funded by taxes on avgas as well as other federal funding and does not have the same <URL> In other words here in the states you need to pay to rent or own the plane and gas it up but the use of the air is free . In Europe you will have the same costs with an added cost to use the airspace . In Europe you can also expect <URL> . Although many helicopters are turbine based and run on Jet-A . More specifically , in North America what are the uses for helicopters that are n't common in other parts of the world ? <URL> In many places , <URL> . If your <URL> . Although many of these uses are also common elsewhere in the world . However due to the nature of aviation laws here in the US , its a bit easier ( and somewhat cheaper ) to fly small aircraft . Does this unique demand come mostly from offshore drilling , police , or medical usage ? Police and Medical is fairly common around the world . Oil rig transport occurs only in places where off-shore rigs are used/drill ( <URL> ) . Why do n't they use helicopters for those purposes in other countries ? They do , for example the <URL> and there is the <URL> . There are efforts in <URL> and many other places in the world for that matter .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
There are many reasons . At least one is that the airline may not need that airframe type until later that day ( the next flight that requires said airframe ) . Airlines do n't just fly any plane they have on any route they have , this would be terribly inefficient and involve using an airplane that is not needed for a given mission . Take any major airline for example that fly large planes to lots of destination in Europe . Lets say that they have a 777 Arrive at EWR from Paris . The next long haul flight that airline has out of EWR is that evening to Dublin . But though out the day the carrier has 2 commuter flights down to Charlottesville VA totaling about 100 passengers between the two flights . They are not going to use a 777 to move 100 people and some light bags , so the plane sits until its needed again . All planes ( even non commercial ) are built for a given " mission " much like you would not buy a Ferrari if you wanted a car that was good on gas .
It 's for <URL> ( for <URL> ) . As the generated lift bends the wings upward , the weight of the fuel will counter that . As the plane loses weight in-flight due to burning fuel , so does the need for wing bending relief ( less weight → less lift ) , that 's why the wing tanks are the last to be used . For context , a Boeing 777-200ER can hold 29 tonnes of fuel in each wing , and each wing measures ~ 27 metres and is self-supported . Example : Let 's say in our airliner each wing tank holds 100 units ( 200 total for both tanks ) , and the center tank holds 200 units , and you have a flight that needs 200 units of fuel . Correct scenario : By filling only the wing tanks , the weight of fuel in the wings will counter the bending of the lift . Incorrect scenario : By filling only the center tank , the wings will bend a great deal ( maybe even beyond their design limit ) . This is not good , and even if it is within the design limits , the repeating [ avoidable ] stresses will shorten the <URL> . Example for order of use ( schedule ) : Our flight needs 300 units , based on the above , we will fill the wing tanks , and fill half the center tank . Correct order : By emptying the center first , we have extended the duration of the wing bending relief . Incorrect order : By emptying the wings first , we lose the wing bending relief , while the plane is still heavy . Related : <URL>
The aviation industry is already running at near-peak efficiency , performing crucial tasks simultaneously to ensure quick turn-around . Trying to speed up the boarding process by allowing entrance from both ends would be doable with a large amount of changes to the existing process , in both operations and infrastructure . However , the result would be horrendous and time - and resource-consuming at worst and comical at best . Jetways need to be able to reach all points of ingress/egress , where currently , they only reach the forward doors . Seeing as aircraft nose-in at the gate , to reach the aft doors would require a jetway that goes around the wing ( above the wing is even less practical from a design/physics standpoint ) , effectively creating an even smaller limit to the size of the aircraft that can fit at the terminal since there is now a jetway that needs to reach the rear doors . As you can see , the space between aircraft is already tight : Or , you use a simple stairway at the aft door and allow passengers on the tarmac , an already busy place during aircraft turn-around , and we do n't need them touching anything en route . I highly recommend against the latter . In many instances , during boarding , the rear and/or opposite-side doors are already in use for loading/unloading food and drinks and taking out the trash . So you 'd have to redesign that process . Humans are generally stupid in large groups . Southwest notwithstanding , your typical airline assigns seats . Imagine a passenger entering the rear door with seat 1A . It does n't have to be that extreme . It can be any seat assignment more forward than another passenger coming the opposite direction down the aisle , which has the effect of halting both directions of travel . Passengers already sit in the wrong seats , or travel with babies , or carry too much luggage ( or stow it selfishly ) . There have been many studies on efficient boarding methods . The most efficient algorithm seems to be <URL> , but this method requires someone with an inordinate attention to detail ( and willing passengers ) to line people up in a specific order . Taking into account crew resources , the most efficient method is by window-middle-aisle groups , then by random order ( i.e. " single-zone " ) , with typical " zone boarding " least efficient . EDIT : There are scenarios where boarding from both ends makes sense and is feasible , e.g. smaller planes with fewer passengers . On larger aircraft , the problem compounds itself as the number of passengers grows , each " collision " incident affecting that many more people in the queue . Minimizing collisions requires airlines to throw more resources at the problem , namely personnel to direct traffic . Ask any CFO - more often than not , human resources is the most significant slice of the operating budget . In any case , engineering a solution should not entail best-case scenarios ; it should be designed for typical-case at best , and more commonly for worst-case . The human factor is one that can not be overlooked . There is no such thing as an idiot-proof system .
To get to the bottom of it , it might help to look at lift at a molecular level : Every air molecule is in a dynamic equilibrium between inertial , pressure and viscous effects : Inertial means that the mass of the particle wants to travel on as before and needs force to be convinced otherwise . Pressure means that air particles oscillate all the time and bounce into other air particles . The more bouncing , the more force they exert on their surroundings . Viscosity means that air molecules , because of this oscillation , tend to assume the speed and direction of their neighbors . Flow over the upper side of the wing Now to the airflow : When a wing approaches at subsonic speed , the low pressure area over its upper surface will suck in air ahead of it . See it this way : Above and downstream of a packet of air we have less bouncing of molecules ( = less pressure ) , and now the undiminished bouncing of the air below and upstream of that packet will push its air molecules upwards and towards that wing . The packet of air will rise and accelerate towards the wing and be sucked into that low pressure area . Due to the acceleration , the packet will be stretched lengthwise and its pressure drops in sync with it picking up speed . Spreading happens in flow direction - the packet is distorted and stretched lengthwise , but contracts in the direction orthogonally to the flow . Once there , it will " see " that the wing below it curves away from its path of travel , and if that path would remain unchanged , a vacuum between the wing and our packet of air would form . Reluctantly , the packet will change course and follow the wing 's contour . This requires even lower pressure , to make the molecules change their direction . This fast-flowing , low-pressure air will in turn suck in new air ahead and below of it , will go on to decelerate and regain its old pressure over the rear half of the wing , and will flow off with its new flow direction . Note that lift can only happen if the upper contour of the wing will slope downwards and away from the initial path of the air flowing around the wing 's leading edge . This could either be camber or angle of attack - both will have the same effect . Since camber allows for a gradual change of the contour , it is more efficient than angle of attack . Flow over the lower side of the wing A packet of air which ends up below the wing will experience less uplift and acceleration , and in the convex part of highly cambered airfoils it will experience a compression . It also has to change its flow path , because the cambered and/or inclined wing will push the air below it downwards , creating more pressure and more bouncing from above for our packet below the wing . When both packets arrive at the trailing edge , they will have picked up some downward speed . Behind the wing , both packets will continue along their downward path for a while due to inertia and push other air below them down and sideways . Above them , this air , having been pushed sideways before , will now fill the space above our two packets . Macroscopically , this looks like two big vortices . But the air in these vortices can not act on the wing anymore , so it will not affect drag or lift . See <URL> , including pretty pictures . Lift can be explained in several , equivalent ways Following the picture of a pressure field outlined above , lift is the difference of pressure between upper and lower surface of the wing . The molecules will bounce against the wing skin more at the lower side than at the upper side , and the difference is lift . Or you look at the macroscopic picture : A certain mass of air has been accelerated downwards by the wing , and this required a force to act on that air . This force is what keeps the aircraft up in the air : Lift . If you look at the wing as a black box and only pay attention to the impulse of the inflowing and outflowing air , the wing will change the impulse by adding a downward component . The reaction force of this impulse change is lift . Either way , you will arrive at the same result . By the way : Most of the directional change happens in the forward part of the airfoil , not at the trailing edge ! Lift is a matter of definition Lift and induced drag are both part of the pressures acting on the wing . If you add up all the pressure forces acting on a wing , their resulting vector will point slightly backwards . The streamwise component is drag , and the component orthogonal to the direction of movement is lift . This is just a defininion , made for simplicity .
Yes , such system exists , for example the <URL> . * It was <URL> and installed as an option on the Boeing 707-300 freight aircraft . Other aircraft that had a similar ( optional ) system include the L1011 and Boeing 747 . It is mostly found on freight aircraft because they have a less predictable load distribution ( centre of gravity ) than passenger aircraft . The reason they are not common is that they add cost in the form of installation , weight and maintenance . While quite accurate when in good condition , the reliability of the weighing systems used to be poor , which probably contributed to the fact they never became wide spread . Because crew are commonly operating on several aircraft types these days that have take-off weights of more than 100 metric tonne difference ( e.g. A330 and A340 , B747-400 and B747-8 ) there is an increase in take-off weight confusion related incidents . This , combined with the fact that systems are becoming more reliable , makes it likely that these weighing systems will be used more in the future . * An <URL> in a 1987 Flight issue .
end question
start question
Can you fly a plane in a wind tunnel ?
There have been tests of real aircraft in wind tunnels , with a pilot sitting in the cockpit . But in all cases the plane had been tied in place with strings . Trimming the lift and especially the thrust in all phases of the test is really impossible . The Messerschmitt 109 was tested in the French Chalais-Meudon tunnel in 1940 , the Bell P-39 was tested at Langley , where the top speed could be improved from 340 to 392 MPH , the <URL> was tested at Langley in 1943 like most small military planes of that period , and lately a stealth demonstrator made by MBB was tested in 1984 , in most cases with the pilot in place . These are the ones I know ; there were certainly more .
No , fiddling with your altimeter setting does n't change the airspace you are flying in . So you ca n't bust the class A above 18 000 ft by changing the setting . The top and bottom boundaries of the airspace are defined by applying the altimeter setting local to that airspace . Conversely , and perhaps more important , you ca n't weasel out of a busted airspace by quickly changing your altimeter setting . Your transponder sends your altitude as if your altimeter was set to 1013.25 hPA / 29.92 inHg , regardless of what your actual setting is . The ATC system will do the conversion according to their setting , so you ca n't fool them . Note that the altitude resolution of your transponder is either 100 feet ( Mode C ) or 25 feet ( Mode S with appropriate altimeter encoder ) , so 1 feet difference does n't really matter .
Everything is available for a price , and you do n't need Google 's help : You can get the <URL> right from Boeing if you contact them . You can also Google around and get PDFs of Boeing maintenance documents but these would be from unofficial/unauthorized sources ( at least one Boeing maintenance manual made it onto Wikileaks ) . As Boeing likely holds a copyright on their maintenance documents obtaining them from an unofficial/unauthorized source would be an infringement on that copyright . More importantly you ca n't guarantee documents from an unofficial source are correct , current , and unmodified . If you intend to use the document for any aviation purposes ( like performing maintenance on an aircraft ) you would want to be absolutely certain they are the latest approved revision from Boeing .
Aircraft selection for a particular route is quite complex , especially for a large airline that operates many different types of aircraft . You 're correct : generally speaking widebody aircraft are used for longer flights , but there are a number of other factors at play . Some of these could be that a route has a very high peak demand , where a lot of people want to go from A - > B at a given time . LHR to Edinburgh seems particularly likely to be one of these city pairs . Sydney to Melbourne is another one , and is only about 400 miles if my memory serves . In both of these cases there is a dominant national airline in the mix ( BA , Qantas ) whereas in the USA there are almost always 3 or more large airlines operating any heavy route ( New York to Boston , or Washington DC to Chicago , etc ) . Aircraft scheduling also plays a role . For example , the 767 in question might be scheduled to fly from Heathrow to Edinburgh and back in the morning , before picking up a long-haul flight to the USA in the afternoon . If there 's a 4 hour " gap " in the schedule for that particular aircraft , it might make more sense for the airline to run it as a short out-and-back rather than have it sit on the ground at LHR . Also , Heathrow is notoriously busy , and getting a takeoff/landing slot there is extremely expensive . The high landing fees are charged at least partially regardless of the size of the aircraft , so there is some economic motivation here to divide those fixed costs by a larger number of passengers . As another data point , I checked the daily schedule between Haneda ( the main domestic airport in Tokyo ) and Hiroshima ( ~ 400 miles away ) and found the following list of flights : 9x 737 , 4x 787 , 2x 767 , 2x 777 - so in this case you have almost half the flights on widebody aircraft , and probably closer to 75 % of the total seats . It 's also entirely possible ( I have n't checked the schedules ) that this 767 run is temporary , due to a period of peak demand or at a point in the year where the demands on that aircraft type are lower elsewhere in the route structure . So in summary : it 's very hard to know all the reasons that a flight might be operated with a specific type . You need to know a fair bit about the economics of the city pair , the fleet makeup of the airlines , the likely competition for the route , how the route timing interacts with other flights , the congestion level of the airport , and a lot of other things .
As far as I 'm aware this has never been attempted ( and I doubt the Navy would let me try - though I 'm certainly game if they are ! ) , but : A <URL> stalls at 38mph ( 33kts ) . <URL> had a maximum speed of 38.7 mph ( 33.6 kts ) . So , given a lightly loaded cub and an Enterprise-class carrier at flank speed , it is at least theoretically possible to float that aircraft off the deck ( if it were lightly loaded , and thus had a lower stall speed ) . Achieving zero relative motion would require a little more effort - specifically you 'd have to seek out a headwind , and the Cub would have to be operating at an airspeed above stall , but still pretty close to it . For example , if the Enterprise were making 30 knots and steaming into a 10 knot headwind the relative wind on deck would be 40 knots . That 's enough to lift the Cub , but as soon as it was in the air it would need to pull itself along ( via its engine ) to maintain that speed . The Cub would have zero relative motion above the deck at an airspeed somewhere around 40 knots ) . As a ( slightly ridiculous ) bonus : <URL> has a stall speed of 28 mph ( 25kts ) . It would be theoretically possible to fly such a plane like a kite from an aircraft carrier . Its <URL> ( both ~ 500ft ) are also such that it could operate from a carrier deck without need for the catapult to launch or arresting wire to stop .
In order to fly an SVFR clearance , the pilot and planned flight must meet several criteria . The <URL> as well as <URL> spell out the basic requirements : You must have at least a private pilot certificate to obtain an SVFR clearance during daylight hours as well as an instrument rating to obtain an SVFR clearance at night . Student pilots are not permitted to request an SVFR clearance . You must obtain an SVFR clearance to depart from Class E , D , C and B airspace if visibility is below VFR minimums . SVFR clearance may be prohibited in some Class D , C , and B airspace due to the volume of IFR traffic . Check the airspace NOTAMs for these areas prior to departure . You must have at least 1 statute mile visibility on both the ground and in the air as well as remain clear of clouds ( airplane ) or simply remain clear of clouds and have at least 1 statute mile visibility for operations in Class B , C , and D airspace ( rotorcraft helicopter ) . All an SVFR clearance allows is for a VFR pilot to enter , depart or operate in controlled airspace using day VFR minimums for Class G airspace . If it is done correctly by a competent private pilot and only in these conditions , it can be done safely as it provides the pilot with enough visual references to safely operate in VFR . It is also advisable to do a realistic assessment of one 's own abilities to control an airplane in marginal conditions and set conservative minimums for things like congested airspace or other weather in the area . It is not advisable to do this if weather briefings anticipate IMC after departure . Likewise if you have little experience operating in congested controlled airspace or if you struggle to stay ahead of the airplane under additional stressors , SVFR may not be advisable .
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
Yes <URL> <URL> ( 2002 ) <URL> ( 2002 ) JetBlue Airways is the first U.S. carrier to get approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to install video cameras on all its airplanes . JetBlue is a successful start-up carrier based at New York 's John F. International Kennedy airport . Soon after the Sept. 11 hijackings , the airline installed bullet-proof cockpit doors on all its planes . And it was the first carrier to match all luggage to passengers . The airline has outfitted one plane with the video surveillance system , and plans to have its 23 other jets equipped with the miniature cameras within the next few months . The cameras are positioned to cover the entire cabin . Some are visible , others are hidden so they can not be tampered with <URL> ( 2008 ) The European Union 's Security of Aircraft in the Future European Environment ( SAFEE ) project uses a camera in every passenger 's seat , with six wide-angle cameras to survey the aisles . Software then analyses the footage to detect developing terrorist activity or " air-rage " incidents , by tracking passengers ' facial expressions . <URL> ( 2012/2013 ? ) KID-Systeme has been selected to supply cabin surveillance equipment for the Airbus A350 XWB family of aircraft . The integrated solution will include both a cockpit door surveillance system ( CDSS ) and a cabin video monitoring system ( CVMS ) . The CDSS provides pilots with a clear view of anyone in the area of the cockpit door , enabling them to take the appropriate action when entry to the cockpit is requested . The CVMS allows both the pilots and the cabin crew to view passengers .
It 's a bad idea to give false information to a controller as a matter of practice . Instead of calling yourself a student when you 're not , it would be better to say you 're unfamiliar with the area or that your English is not perfect . Controllers are almost always accommodating to less-than-proficient pilots and will usually make allowances whenever time and traffic permits . If your English is not good , be sure and use simple , direct phraseology . Read the AIM to become familiar with the common phrases used with ATC . Even something as simple as hearing " radar identified " in Canada instead of the usual U.S. phrase " radar contact " has caused many a native English speaker to reply " say again ? "
The maximum altitude you can operate your RC plane or copter vertically without any clearance from ATC or another government body is the upper limit of class G airspace in Germany , which is the first available airspace from to the lower vertical limit of controlled airspace C/D/E , which can be 1 , or , depending on surrounding airspace and airports in the vicinity . You can register at the website of the <URL> to obtain the ICAO charts for your area and take a look at the airspace structure near you . The actual ceiling of airspace G can be significantly lower in the vicinity of larger airports , where the controlled airspace C/D/E has been lowered . The below picture shows how the dark green section around Frankfurt Airport has an airspace C with the vertical limits . The airspace E in that area ( not visible in this picture ) has a vertical limit of . Some areas within that section already have an elevation of , which leaves less than of airspace G before the overlying airspace C begins . If you want to get your RC plane or copter into class C/D/E airspace , which is controlled airspace , you will need to obtain a clearance through the ATC unit in control of the sector or the FIS sector responsible , as postulated in <URL> § 16a LuftVO Besondere Benutzung des kontrollierten Luftraums ( 1 ) Bei Inanspruchnahme des kontrollierten Luftraums ist von der zuständigen Flugverkehrskontrollstelle eine Flugverkehrskontrollfreigabe einzuholen für 1 . Fallschirmsprünge und den Abwurf von Gegenständen an Fallschirmen ; 2 . Aufstiege von Flugmodellen und anderen fern - oder ungesteuerten Flugkörpern mit Eigenantrieb ; 3 . Aufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen mit einer Gesamtmasse von Ballonhülle und Ballast von mehr als 0,5 kg sowie Aufstiege von gebündelten unbemannten Freiballonen und Massenaufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen . Please also mind <URL> , which dictactes that any RC plane or UAV needs to remain within the visbility range of the controller , so the maximum altitude can vary depending on the size of your RC plane or copter , the weather minima at your location and your own eyesight : ( 3 ) Der Betrieb von unbemannten Luftfahrtsystemen ist verboten , wenn 1 . er außerhalb der Sichtweite des Steuerers erfolgt oder 2 . die Gesamtmasse des Geräts mehr als 25 Kilogramm beträgt . 1 : AGL = Above Ground Level 2 : MSL = Mean Sea Level
OK . There are some answers with some good information here but here is my stab at it . I 'm not going to go into whether this is smart or not , just possible . And yes you can land a seaplane safely in zero-zero conditions , if the conditions are right ( haha ) . Anyone that tells you different is n't using their imagination and/or is n't a seaplane pilot . Once again , not saying it 's smart , just possible . 1 ) " I 've heard that some seaplane bases have IFR approaches , but what about landing at sea ? " If you have an ILS , you need to mount the antenna somewhere and " at sea " is not very conducive to that . This leaves GPS ( RNAV ) approaches that could be theoretically built " at sea " . However , until RNP and LPV ( or however they are renaming these concepts this week ) becomes common place in small aircraft you can only get down to minimums of about 500 ' anyways . If you are dropped off that " high " , you are pretty much legal " at sea " to be down there buzzing around VFR anyways even in US airspace ( assuming you can see , which if you could n't then landing from an IFR approach would n't be prudent anyways , even on a runway ) . So it kind of defeats the point of doing an approach in the first place . 2 ) " If you flew out into international airspace , could you land at sea and then taxi back into US waters without being subject to US regulations ? " Short answer , technically yes , but ... . . You could land outside of ADIZ , which is typically 12 miles out and be subject to no FARs , I guess , technically . However there is almost always a controlling agency for that airspace even if the country possibly care ' as much ' once outside their sovereign airspace . They will start caring a lot if and when you conflict with their traffic . Back to the point , there are many practical problems with landing this far out though and it certainly is n't worth the hassle just to avoid some regulations ( that do n't really limit you ) . First problem , there are very few seaplanes still flying today that can land 12 miles out to sea on anything but the absolute best ( read that as calmest ) day . And , oh yes I forgot to mention , in the US at least they are n't going to wait until you get right up to twelve miles with no transponder code to intercept you ( I 'm assuming you are n't talking to anyone because you do n't want to be subject to US regs ) . So you actually need to land about 35 miles out ( do n't ask me where that number is from , I honestly do n't remember , but 35 miles was the magic number and deadline for having a transponder code to cross the ADIZ ) . Moving on , If you do find that rare day when the water is just beautifully calm and do land , you run into problem number 2 . Second problem , now you have to taxi 35 miles to shore . Talk to any seaplane pilot you can find , and they will be happy to tell you how painful this would be . Even if it were just twelve miles this would be a great reason to just talk to someone and go the flying route . This leads us to problem 3 , which is even if you are n't subject to aviation regulations you are now a boat . So you must clear immigration and customs as a boat . The coast guard whom you may run into will not be a problem . In my experience they are generally great people and very practical because they have important jobs to do . They 'll call a hammer a hammer , and will be happy to treat you like a boat . Your problem will be with customs and border patrol . They will be so confused by this beast you have brought them , that they MAY not want to clear you just for fear of getting reprimanded . Be ready for lengthy explanations and calls to supervisors leading to most likely hours of waiting . Not saying CBP does n't do an excellent job , but you just brought some poor junior officer a seaplane which is the equivalent to taking a puffer fish to a butcher in Alabama and telling him , " Do n't worry , I 'm pretty sure my wife wo n't sue you if you kill me by cutting that thing wrong . " From personal experience , if you try to set something like this up in advance with CBP you have about a five percent chance of it actually slightly helping somewhat , but not really . Problem is when you call to set something up you are talking with supervisors and they are definitely not the ones who are going to meet you , and they probably ca n't tell you who will meet you . ... . All that being said , I do n't see any reason to avoid US airspace . Im not sure what regs you think you 'd be avoiding but there are n't really that many to worry about in this situation ( I realize this is probably why you asked in the first place ) . There are no regulations against landing in salt water anywhere in the US . The coast guard owns the salt water essentially and they are great to work with . Also controllers are n't going to care if you land without an airport anywhere , no regs against it ( think helicopters , grass strips , good bush flying ) . That being said , there is a big difference between being legal and not pissing people off . Land in the intercoastal in a lot of places and you 'll probab
If you want to look for the airplane that flew a certain flight ( U22604/EZY42EA for your case ) , you could go onto <URL> and search for that specific flight to find the list of aircraft which flew with the callsign and if you select any one of the planes , you can find out the flight history of that plane for the past few months . You could also search <URL> for flight history too .
At that point it was indeed the flaps extending in preparation of takeoff ( you can see them moving through the rain ) . You would typically also be able to hear the cargo doors closing ( before the plane starts taxiing ) and the engines ramping up as you start to take off ( <URL> in the same video ) .
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
The license they are talking about is an FAA license issues on the basis of your Italian one , provided that license is up to an FAA standard . See @Pondlife 's answer for some links , and here 's one on the <URL> . The FAA license would be restricted to the privileges of your Italian one . For example , if you do not have privileges to fly at night on your Italian license then you would not be able to fly at night . If your Italian license defines the day as being shorter than the FAA you 'd have to use the Italian definition . To get one you have to show up in person at an FSDO unless the Italian FAA equivalent has an agreement in place where they can validate identity , etc. .
See the notes on <URL> under the " Delivery " section . Looks like its formally called " long-line loiter " . There is a brief note on it <URL> and a US Patent <URL> and <URL> manual from the 70 's that seems to show how to do it and some related research on it . Here is a nice image of the maneuver
You question is a question of rules of engagement . Shooting down a downed pilot in a dogfight is not only not OK , but also illegal . According to <URL> , No person parachuting from an aircraft in distress shall be made the object of attack during his descent . Of course , war is war and this kind of attacks <URL> by pilots of almost all air forces , though it should be noted that in most cases , this practice was specifically prohibited by their high commands .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about flying such an aircraft ( e.g. renting one ) or owning one . But either way the answer is yes . I 've flown a <URL> at a ( now-defunct ) location in Cape Town on a mixed low-level/acrobatic flight along the coast . There were no restrictions on who could fly in the aircraft apart from the obvious ones ( no kids ; must have reasonable height/weight and general fitness ) but they did n't let non-pilots take the controls . We did some aerobatics ( up to 5G , from memory ) and I had the controls in cruise flight for about 10 minutes . There was absolutely nothing that a civilian could n't learn : it 's ' just ' another aircraft . As for owning one , it 's not uncommon at all . Privately owned ex-military aircraft are often referred to as " <URL> " and in the US there 's even an <URL> for owners . The aircraft are usually considered experimental ( or the local equivalent ) for the purposes of regulation and airworthiness . The barriers to owning these aircraft are ( as always ) money and training . Buying and maintaining them is very expensive because there are so few parts or mechanics available , and insuring them is ( almost ) impossible so most owners have to self-insure . The operating costs are also usually high , especially if the aircraft systems need ' exotic ' fuels , gases , lubricants or other consumables . You may need to include explosives on the list , in the case of ejection seats . Training is a similar issue because so few people can instruct you in how to fly a military aircraft , but obviously this is n't a total barrier and I assume that if you 're involved in that part of the flying community then you 'll find the contacts you need . So in general , if you can buy a military aircraft legally in your country , if you have enough money for operations and maintenance , if you can find someone to train you , and if you can comply with your local regulations on non-type ( experimental ) aircraft then you can absolutely do it . But for most people that 's a lot of ' ifs ' :-)
Yes . <URL> covers this ( my emphasis ) : ( b ) Required pilot certificate for operating a foreign-registered aircraft within the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of foreign registry within the United States , unless -- ( 1 ) That person 's pilot certificate or document issued under § 61.29 ( e ) is in that person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate ; and ( 2 ) Has been issued in accordance with this part , or has been issued or validated by the country in which the aircraft is registered . So a US license ( i.e. one issued under part 61 ) is allowed as an alternative to a foreign license for operating the foreign aircraft . The other country could have rules on this too , but I have no idea if they would be enforceable ( obviously , one country 's laws are usually not valid in another one ) .
end question
start question
What are the restrictions on performing intentional spins ?
There are at least three FARs that apply ( maybe more ? ) . First , " aerobatics " as defined in <URL> seems to include spinning : For the purposes of this section , aerobatic flight means an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . That means the general restrictions in 91.303 would apply : No person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight -- ( a ) Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; ( b ) Over an open air assembly of persons ; ( c ) Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; ( d ) Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; ( e ) Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or ( f ) When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Second , spinning an aircraft not approved for spinning in the POH would be a violation of <URL> : § 91.9 Civil aircraft flight manual , marking , and placard requirements . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry . Finally , <URL> would also prohibit spinning a non-certificated aircraft because it 's a ' catch-all ' regulation : § 91.13 Careless or reckless operation . ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . But spinning itself is absolutely legal and is required for a flight instructor rating as described in <URL> EDIT : there 's also a requirement in <URL> that if non-crewmembers are on board then parachutes are required for maneuvers with ' extreme ' bank or pitch , unless the flight is a test or training flight : ( c ) Unless each occupant of the aircraft is wearing an approved parachute , no pilot of a civil aircraft carrying any person ( other than a crewmember ) may execute any intentional maneuver that exceeds -- A bank of 60 degrees relative to the horizon ; or A nose-up or nose-down attitude of 30 degrees relative to the horizon . ( d ) Paragraph ( c ) of this section does not apply to -- Flight tests for pilot certification or rating ; or Spins and other flight maneuvers required by the regulations for any certificate or rating when given by -- ( i ) A certificated flight instructor ; or ( ii ) An airline transport pilot instructing in accordance with § 61.67 of this chapter .
Aerobatic flight is " an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . " According to the <URL> , no person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight : Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; Over an open air assembly of persons ; Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Aerobatic flight is sometimes considered to be flight with more than 30 degrees pitch or more than 60 degrees bank . This is incorrect . It applies to wearing a parachute . ( FAR 91.307 ) A normal category aircraft is certified for the following " non-acrobatic " operation : Stalls , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 ° . A utility category aircraft is certified for spins ( if approved for plane ) , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar manoeuvres , in which the angle of bank is more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees . An acrobatic category aircraft is required for other aerobatics .
They are flaps or doors on the engine cowling that open up in order to provide increased cooling airflow for the engine . <URL> when open . They are generally controlled by a handle in the cockpit ( some aircraft have electric cowl flaps with an open/close switch ) . <URL> The disadvantage is that the open flaps also increase drag . So on airplanes equipped with cowl flaps , they are generally opened for low-speed , high-power situations such as takeoff . This is the harshest operational regime for the engine since it is at its highest power and relatively low cooling airflow due to low airspeed . They are then closed either reaching cruise or reaching a point where the airplane can transition to a lower-power , higher-speed climb profile . They 're not specific to radial engines , but do tend to be more common in older aircraft ( there are exceptions though ) . Newer airplane and engine designs are more likely to have sufficient inherent cooling airflow to not require cowl flaps . The photo above comes from AVweb , which also has a <URL> .
If the aircraft is subject to the ADS-B mandate of Europe , it will not be allowed to operate in European airspace after June 7 , 2020 if it does not have a certified EUROCAE ED-102A ( equivalent to RTCA DO-260B ) compliant ADS-B transmitter . Aircraft with a maximum take-off weight exceeding 5700 kg or maximum operating true airspeed exceeding 250 knots are subject to the mandate . The USA rule is a bit different , as it allows ADS-B on universal access transceivers ( UAT ) below 18 000 ft which is different from the 1090ES technology used in DO-260 . You can do without ADS-B in the USA after January 1 , 2020 , if you never fly higher than 10 000ft MSL ( exceeding 10 000ft MSL is allowed as long as you do n't exceed 2 500ft AGL ) , you do not enter or overfly class C airspace and keep further than 30 NM from class B airspace . If your aircraft is 1090ES ADS-B equipped it must be DO-260B compliant ; if it UAT ADS-B equipped it must be DO-282B compliant . The difference between DO-260A and DO-260B are many small changes . This list is not exhaustive : change in the way position integrity is encoded , addition of barometric pressure setting , new encoding aircraft length / width change in encoding of speed on surface Typically the update from DO-260A to DO-260B requires a firmware update and some configuration changes . However , note that the mandates include more requirements than just the ADS-B protocol version . There are requirements on the integrity of your position source ( GPS ) as well , and the maximum latency in the position transmission chain . In the worst case you are up for a rewiring of the GPS or even installing a new GPS .
It depends on the autopilot and you need to read the AFM to know what the limitations are . All of the business jets that I have flown prohibit the use of the autopilot below a specific altitude ( between 50 and 1,000 feet depending on the autopilot and the configuration of the airplane ) . Nothing prevents then from being used lower but it is n't allowed . They will engage on the ground ( in fact it is part of the required preflight tests ) but have a specific prohibition against use for takeoff and landing . Other airplanes and autopilots however are approved for autoland all of the way down to a full stop , and some for takeoff as well . Speeds also depend on the autopilot . Some automatically disconnect if the aircraft receives a stall warning or overspeed signal but others do n't .
On top of <URL> above , I 'd like to add that there are also different requirements for the content ( at least in europe ) : The life-vest demo is only required if extended portions of the flight are over water and/or climb and approach routes lead over water . The safety demo has to be finished before take-off . I remember quite a number of flights where we had to wait at the holding point because the cabin was not yet ready .
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
From Anne Graham 's book , <URL> : This charging mechanism uses the ' ability to pay ' principles , since airlines using larger aircraft are in a better position to pay higher charges . Some costs such as runway wear and tear do increase with weight and also larger aircraft require vortex separations , which can reduce the number of aircraft movements during a certain period . Overall , however , there is not a strong relationship between aircraft weight and airfield cost . A flat rate landing charge for all aircraft types may be more appropriate , particularly at congested airports . This is because the cost of occupying the congested runway is movement related and independent of aircraft size . Each aircraft movement will consume the same resource .
Oxygen in passenger masks is either generated by oxygen generator or released from pressurized container via reduction valve . In either case it is released at fixed rate . But human breath is discontinous . So the bag acts as a buffer . You inhale the oxygen accumulated in it and then it slowly refills while you are exhaling .
The AOPA 's <URL> has quite a few resources that I like to review from time to time , including some great videos with commentary on exceptional cases . <URL> <URL> <URL> I do exactly what you are doing , during training and still after , but I 'd like to also say that you should n't narrow yourself to GA crashes , a lot of what happens commercially can be applied to GA , and usually with commercial accidents there is a lot more data and analysis available to work with . In that regard , I like to watch shows on Youtube like <URL> , or on TV like <URL> <URL> on individual crashes where you can search by certain criteria like aircraft type , states , type of flight , or even some specific keywords like " Vacuum Failure " . Just do n't limit yourself to looking at things like " Pilot Error " , pilot error is a broad category of crashes that is usually used to describe the pilot doing something wrong in the air , but a lot of crashes are " pilot error " in that the pilot could have broke the accident chain much earlier in the flight . Read as many as you can , regardless of the cause . For example an accident where the aircraft breaks up in flight may not be attributed to pilot error , but its good to know what lead to the break up and what could have been prevented .
The document you cite actually goes on to explain what the procedure is for calculators , and when testing centers can prevent you from using your own ( you 'll be provided a loaner ) : Testing centers may provide a calculator to you and/or deny use of your personal calculator based on the following limitations : a. Prior to , and upon completion of the test , while in the presence of the Unit Member ( formerly referred to as proctor ) , you must actuate the ON/OFF switch and perform any other function that ensures erasure of any data stored in memory circuits . b . The use of electronic calculators incorporating permanent or continuous type memory circuits without erasure capability is prohibited . The Unit Member may refuse the use of your calculator when unable to determine the calculator 's erasure capability . [ ... ] Basically , you can bring a graphing calculator and wipe it , but unless the center is able to confirm that you 've removed all stored memory , they 're probably just gon na say " nah " and hand you a basic calculator . There 's a pretty good chance that your graphing calculator falls under the " permanent or continuous type memory circuits " category anyway .
For a jetliner , the ' why early ' is to test the auto flight system . Turning on the F/D also turns on the <URL> ( FMA ) and displays the armed modes . So it 's an early check that all systems are go . <URL> From a 777 manual , any fault will be indicated on the FMA as it reads above . Here are the flow checks pertaining to the F/D and FMA during the cockpit setup : <URL>
The problem is that you 're using the Flight Operations Manual , and not the Schematic Manuals . Quite frankly , FOM 's pretty much suck in terms of technical details , but that 's not their purpose either . In regards to your question about what the channels are : Channels are really just a euphemism for system redundancy . The FAC 's are two completely separate entities ( with crosstalk capabilities ) - kind of like flight crews . The PIC ( pilot-in-command ) has primary control of the aircraft , while the SIC ( second-in-command ) has the same independent authority . The PIC and SIC can talk to one another , and monitor what each is doing . If the PIC falls ill , becomes incapacitated , etc. . the SIC can take over the functions of the PIC . The FAC 's work the same way . They both receive the same information , and have full capability of performing the work of one another . Take note of this schematic , courtesy of Airbus ( <URL> ) , and which I took the liberty of highlighting : <URL> Basically , what this schematic is saying is that the ELAC 's , under normal law , provide turn coordination and dutch roll damping to the FAC 's . They do this by receiving inputs from the rudder pedals , sidesticks , FMGC 's , ADIRU 's , SFCC , LGCIU 's , and hyd pressure . Based on those inputs , it computes the proper yaw commands and sends that to the FAC 's . It should be noted that both FAC 's receive the same information on , you guessed it , separate channels . What does that mean ? The data from ELAC 1 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires . Inside the FAC 's , those data paths are split as well ( Channel A &amp; Channel B ) and a separate processor computes the data on Channel A &amp; the data on Channel B. Never the two shall meet . Likewise , the data from ELAC 2 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires , and again , those two data paths shall never meet . At the same time , both FAC 's are receiving the same FMGC , ADIRU , SFCC , LGCIU data that the ELAC is . Again ... Separate wires , separate outputs , and computed with two different processors inside the boxes . The FAC 's are also receiving hydraulic pressure , commanded rudder trim position , and SEC fault data . Guess what ? All on different channels . Now , take note of the highlighted portion in red . Ordinarily , FAC 1 is in control of the servo loop for the RTL Motors . This essentially means that based on ALL of the inputs received from the ELAC 's and other independent systems , the FAC 1 sends a signal to the rudder travel motor and says " Move here . " The motor moves , and a feedback signal from the RTLU circuitry is sent to the FAC saying " Here I am . " When the commanded position of the surface position minus the actual position of the surface is approximately ~ 0 , the surface is nulled . This is a basic feedback loop/servoloop . The FAC 2 has the exact same capabilities as FAC 1 . The two are in constant communication , making sure that neither has failed . If FAC 1 reports a self-failure , or FAC 2 detects a problem with FAC 1 and/or its servo loop , FAC 2 can immediately take over . Notice that FAC 2 is responsible for the M2 ( second motor ) of the rudder travel limit system , and FAC 1 is responsible for the M1 ( primary motor ) of the rudder travel limit system . The wiring for the motors and its associated servo loop are completely separate . Again , the idea is complete system isolation . As such , any one failure can not take out the entirety of a system . All of the above is under the presumption of NORMAL LAW . It appears that cracked solder joints , emphases on the plural form , caused failures of Channel A &amp; Channel B of the RTLU ( see page 66 of accident report ) . Basically , like I mentioned previously , FAC 2 was monitoring FAC 1 for faults with it or its associated servo loop . When RTL channel A failed ( the servo loop feeding data back to FAC 1 ; associated with Motor 1 ) , the FAC 2 picked up on it , and took over on its own separate channel . A cracked solder joint on RTL channel B caused FAC 2 to trigger a failure . At some point during these failures , the flight crew pulled the circuit breakers , presumably to reset the faults . The loss of both FAC 's put the aircraft into alternate law . Once the aircraft was in alternate law , it seemed that there was a lot of confusion as to what was happening . From there , things went from bad to disastrous .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
Ideally , fiber composites are bonded and connected by a <URL> . The scarf ratio is determined by the ratio of <URL> and the shear strength of the resin . If your fiber takes 3000 N/mm ² , the resin transmits 20 N/mm ² and the fiber content is 60 % , the ratio is 1:90 , so a 1 mm thick composite layer would need to be joined over a length of 90 mm . In reality , such a ratio is impractical to achieve , so lap joints are used when accepted by the certification authorities . This is the case for for composite gliders , where you will find both scarf and lap joints . In the early days of powered composite aircraft , fiber composites were seen with the experience of aluminium in mind , and treated with the same methods . Therefore , the <URL> and its contemporaries had to use rivet joints throughout the structure . The idea was that by riveting the airframe could be more easily disassembled for inspection and repairs . Riveting carbon fiber composites is quite problematic : You need to use expensive titanium fasteners because aluminium rivets would quickly corrode when in electrical contact to the electrochemically much nobler carbon fibers . Drilling and countersinking holes cuts the very fibers which you try to connect , so you have to double up on wall thickness what is destroyed by the riveting . But the FAA still insisted on rivets - even stringers on panels were riveted , when bonding would had been the most sensible solution . Aircraft engineers have an expression for composites that are treated like metal : Black Aluminum . The LearFan was pure Black Aluminum . Many of the engineers in this project ended up with Beech when they produced the <URL> , so many of the same techniques were transferred as well . At least , the Starship had a fuselage shell which was laid up on a mandrill and then cut right aft of the cockpit section to get the mandrill out . The splicing of the two fuselage sections was then done by a tapered lap joint ; if you want , a practical way of making a not-quite scarf joint . Today we have a new generation of engineers who slowly accept that the nature of composite structures requires their own methods of treatment . But you will still find riveted joints even in modern composites structures . Old habits are hard to break .
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
Molding of the intricate shape requires expensive carbon fiber For it to dampen the noise it 's best with 5 + blades ( see 3 . ) Which is hard to balance and too much weight for your run-of-the-mill 4-seater single engine plane By the time the benefits were realized , enter the jet engine for the big planes that would have benefited from it . You only see it in few turboprops nowadays . Edit : For more on the correlation between no . of blades and noise : it was mainly discovered from tests . Here 's a long <URL> with tons of info , and a snippet from it follows ( T denotes Test , summary : more blades , less noise ) : <URL>
Short answer is no . First of all it is resolution advisory as you said . Its purpose , is to make the Pilots aware of an imminent danger/conflict . As with ' Terrain , Terrain ' , ' Pull up ! , Pull up ! ' , it is up to the pilots whether or not they will follow the instruction ( normally they always do , but there are exceptions ) . However when the pilots hear ' Climb , Climb ' or ' Descent , Descent ' , or another TCAS alert , they should immediately initiate the required action . After all , these days there are top-notch ATC and confliction prevention systems , as well as high-tec TCAS systems on most of the commercial aircraft .
Assuming this is the standard inclined plane task from physics textbook , as <URL> for instance , the acceleration is $ a = g \ cdot \ sin ( \ theta ) $ where $ a $ is acceleration , $ g $ is the free fall acceleration ( 9.8 m/s ^ 2 ) and $ \ theta $ is the pitch angle down ( 0 assuming horizontal ) . This equation applies does not take the air resistance into consideration so would only apply to relatively slow speeds . Interestingly , under these conditions the acceleration does not depend on the mass of the plane . The equation should also apply for the positive pitch angles , but the acceleration would be negative in this case ( slowing down ) .
After watching the video the problem he was having was in keeping it horizontal . It appears that the software is n't able to control the unpowered motors . I know absolutely nothing about quads but I 'm assuming with a fixed rotor pitch they must use variable voltage to the motor to control everything such as translational movement . I 'm also assuming they have an accelerometer to determine pitch . The first question is how accurate the accelerometer is at low g 's . Second , when in free fall if a rheostat that is controlled by the computer could be connected across the sides of the motor then your problem could be solved . The freewheeling motors will create a voltage just like a generator so a rheostat would be able to control the current and thus the mechanical resistance to the motor . The rheostat will have an inverse relationship with the mechanical resistance ( more electrical resistance less mechanical resistance ) . How linear that relationship is you 'll have to experiment with . If you have the software switch to controlling that resistance it should be able to direct the freefall in the same way it does everything under power , only it will be more limited In its authority . If you do it right you might even be able to use the power generated to recover a little bit of the energy from the fall to charge the batteries like a hybrid car does . Like I said , I know absolutely zero about quadecopters so I ca n't fill in any details , but it seems feasible .
end question
start question
Does closing window shades save fuel ?
It is n't due to " lowering the demand on the engine bleed " because the air conditioning is done as part of the standard pressurization of the cabin - the air is bled from the engine , cooled to a very low temperature and then heated to the desired temperature for the cabin , so shutting the blinds would n't affect that because the air is still cooled and then reheated . It is purely for jet-lag and sleeping issues - a single blind open in a darkened cabin can disrupt even those people wearing the eye masks ( those things arent perfect ) and can disrupt people who have woken to go to the toilet during the cabins " sleep period " ( think how horrible it is if you get up in the middle of the night and turn on a bright light - its easier to get back to sleep if you keep lighting muted throughout your activity than it is otherwise ) .
You might be surprised to learn that most refueling tankers hold a relatively small percentage of their total fuselage volume in fuel . The reason why is simple ; a plane stuffed to the gills with fuel would be so grossly overloaded it would n't make it off the runway . Tankers , therefore , can double as medium transports with little modification , as they have a sizable upper deck which is more or less empty space when serving as a tanker , but which can ferry troops , light vehicles or other materiel from Stateside bases to various theaters ( a dedicated heavy transport like the C-5 or C-17 would be used for transporting large units or for specialized troop transport like airbornes ) . Here 's the layout of the KC-135 Stratotanker : To my knowledge , all of this fuel is available both to power the plane and to refuel other aircraft , however the plane would likely draw primarily from the wing tanks for flight , as this is the " standard " configuration for the 707 the KC-135 is built on . Transport of the fuel from these tanks to the refueling systems would be accomplished with an integrated pump and pipe system that could move fuel from anywhere to anywhere . The bulk of the fuel load , as you can see , is contained in four " body tanks " totaling over 144,000 pounds of fuel . For comparison , the F-15E strike fighter can carry a maximum , with CFTs and 3 droptanks , of just 35,550 pounds . These tanks are lined with plastic bladders , which contain the fuel ( so the entire fuselage does n't have to be leak-proof which is much more difficult and expensive to ensure ) and also allows the bladder to collapse as the fuel inside it is depleted , reducing the volume of air in direct contact with the fuel , thus reducing the vapor hazard . AFAIK the wing tanks do not have these bladders , but they 're much smaller spaces overall and more easily accessed . Separating the fuel into multiple tanks has several advantages : The tanker is still serviceable with one or more of the tanks unable to carry fuel ( leak in the bladder , pump failure , etc ) . Sloshing of the fuel in the tanks has less effect on the weight distribution of the aircraft . Imagine trying to take off with a full Olympic swimming pool in your cargo hold ; any pitch up or down will cause several tons of weight to move " downslope " , unbalancing the aircraft ( probably fatally ) . Fuel can be pumped between these tanks to fine-tune or " trim " the aircraft 's weight distribution and handling characteristics , a process known as " tank trimming " which is more aerodynamically efficient than elevator trimming .
Consulting your handy POH ( or one for a 172N that I Googled up ) you 'll find the fuel system diagram looks like the one below ( click to enlarge - most high-wing gravity-fed fuel systems are similar ) . <URL> So there are a number of ways you could wind up with uneven fuel burn with this plumbing . The most common ones are : ( Uncoordinated ) Turns If you 're flying lots of left-hand traffic patterns ( or you 're making lots of left turns for some other reason ) that means your left wing is frequently lower , and gravity favors pulling fuel from the right tank . ( Note that it does n't have to be a turn - prolonged slips can also cause uneven fuel flow . ) If I had to take a guess , I 'd say this is probably your culprit . Were you making a lot of left turns ? Pressure The fuel vent tube on the left tank faces into the wind - this pressurizes the left tank first ( and the right tank through the breather tube connecting the two ) - it 's a little extra encouragement for fuel to leave the tanks and flow into the engine . In some aircraft this leads to the left tank draining faster ( because it 's at a slightly higher air pressure than the right tank ) - this can become particularly pronounced if the breather tube between the two tanks is blocked . <URL> Various blockages A partial blockage in either of the tank fuel lines , the fuel selector valve , the vent , or the breather line between the two tanks could theoretically cause uneven fuel burn ( the vent/breather blockages being a special case of " pressure " from ( 2 ) above ) . Pilot Error It 's possible to mis-position the fuel selector in such a way that you 're getting adequate fuel flow to run the engine , but one tank is more restricted than the other . This is unlikely if the aircraft is properly maintained ( the fuel selector should have nice , identifiable detents that it clicks into , letting you know it 's in position ) . For more detail on causes for uneven fuel burn ( and tips for troubleshooting it with your mechanic ) check out <URL> . Is uneven fuel burn dangerous ? Maybe . It 's certainly something you should be aware of ( part of why you want your fuel gauges to be at least somewhat accurate is so you can tell if your fuel burn is uneven in flight and correct it by switching to the fuller tank briefly ) . Uneven fuel burn can be an annoyance ( a 5 gallon difference is about 30lbs - potentially enough to notice on the controls ) , but it can also be a safety hazard : If allowed to go uncorrected you could theoretically get yourself into a situation where the right fuel tank is empty , and in a steep enough left turn you may not have enough pressure from gravity to get fuel from the left tank into the engine . In an extreme case your right tank may be empty and your left tank may be so low as to unport the fuel pickup tube in a turn , potentially leading to attitude-induced fuel starvation ( " The noisy part of the plane gets quiet until you level the wings " ) .
There is no standard because there 's no standard emergency . The response to " Say fuel onboard " ( or the way the question is phrased ) depends on who cares most about the answer . Fuel Remaining ( in minutes ) This is how you report it when you declare a minimum fuel emergency , and it 's most useful for approach and tower controllers to know exactly how long they have to get you on the ground before your engine gets quiet ( and if they can get you to an airport in that timeframe ) . Fuel Remaining ( in hours ) This is what you 'll give for most general emergencies , and also what 's entered on flight plans . It 's the most generally useful number to a pilot or controller . If you 're VFR-only pilot stuck on top of an overcast and call ATC with a pan ( urgency ) message because ca n't see a way through the controller will want to know how far they can vector you to find a hole before it becomes a fuel emergency too . Fuel Onboard ( in Pounds/Kilograms or Gallons/Liters ) The folks who care about this number drive around in ugly fire trucks wearing silver jumpsuits ( the ARFF crews ) : If the worst happens they want to know how big a fire they might have to deal with , and how much foam they 're going to need to handle it .
Much like water , exposing fuel to below freezing temperatures does not instantly make it freeze . It takes some amount of time , and as long as the fuel is not exposed to below freezing temperatures long enough to make it freeze , it wo n't be a problem . How much time ? That depends on a number of factors like : Type of fuel Jet A ( common in the US ) has a freezing point of -40 C Jet A1 ( common outside the US ) has a freezing point of -47 C Jet B ( common for some military aircraft and very cold airports ) has a freezing point of -60 C Initial fuel temperature If you fuel in the middle east during the middle of summer , the fuel will be a lot warmer than when you fuel in Siberia in the middle of winter . Warmer fuel will take longer to freeze . Outside air temperature Much like trying to freeze water to form an ice cube , the colder the air around it , the faster that it will freeze . Aircraft speed The faster that the airplane goes , the more friction there is as the air flows over the wing . This heats up the air close to the wing and makes it take longer for the fuel to freeze ( see previous point ) . The temperature at the wing is known as TAT : For example , at an actual temperature of -56.5 C ( SAT ) and Mach 0.72 the TAT is -34 C , but at Mach 0.80 the TAT is -29 C. For more information about SAT - vs - TAT , see my answer about <URL> . Quantity of fuel Much like a small pond will freeze before a large lake , in order to get fuel to freeze you need to lower the temperature of all of it . The more that there is , the longer it will take . Aircraft design Some aircraft run hydraulic lines close to the fuel so that the heat will help slow down the freezing . Some aircraft constantly pump fuel to keep it moving and mixing if it tends to freeze in one part of the tank before the rest Some aircraft use fuel to cool the engine oil using a heat exchanger , and return the warmed fuel to the tanks Many other design factors In general , fuel will not freeze in the typical amount of time that an aircraft is aloft . If particular routes pose a problem , there are several options that the operator and pilot have : Use a fuel with a lower freezing point Fly at a lower altitude where it is not as cold Choose a route with warmer temperatures Increase the speed of the airplane Carry extra fuel Transfer fuel in a way to keep fuel warmer . Typically this is done by transferring fuel from the relatively warm fuselage tanks to the wing tanks which are exposed to more of the cold air .
If such a pair of states does exist it ought to be straddling a Mach boundary ( I think ) <URL> e.g. . A subsonic &amp; B trans-sonic . Or A trans-sonic &amp; B supersonic etc. . Reasoning : To get from any point A to B in parameter space should usually be a state function i.e. path independent . i.e. . You can give many tiny increments or one large increment . In our context a parameter space means mostly a pair . To go from to you need a certain thrust profile . The required thrust profile is not unique . Now the above path independance statement is true in general , except when a dissipative force exists . Now you no longer have a state function . Since drag , a dissipative force , is indeed a strong function of speed it will help to not linger in the high drag region i.e. transsonic region with wave drag . In this zone the drag coefficient increases rapidly and you will have a total drag much higher than at both sub-sonic and super-sonic speeds . And that would give a high thrust afterburner the advantage needed over a dry engine : On afterburner you can zoom through the transsonic region rapidly than trudge through it incrementally on dry thrust . Thereby saving on drag losses . You are still consuming more fuel per unit time but the time spent is reduced so much that it makes the higher specific consumption worthwhile . Caveat : This is just an qualitative argument . A more mathematical argument is needed to add rigor to the analysis . Edit : Maybe these schematic plots help clarify my argument . <URL>
Short Answer No , it does not have a back-up , there are some fail-safe components in the system ( see below ) , but in general the system itself is not duplicated . The system , together with a design that avoid ignition sources within the tanks , is just a part that contributes to prevent fuel tanks to ignite . An <URL> for commercial planes have been considered since <URL> and first regulation arrived in may 2006 . Longe Answer The certification CS25 .981 Fuel tank ignition prevention states : ( a ) No ignition source may be present at each point in the fuel tank or fuel tank system where catastrophic failure could occur due to ignition of fuel or vapors . ( c ) Design precautions must be taken to achieve conditions within the fuel tanks which reduce the likelihood of flammable vapors . So the function that should be achieved is prevent tank ignition and there are two fronts two work on , avoid ignition source , and reduce fuel vapors ( similar to the two slices of cheese that rbp was mentioning in the comments ) . So the fuel ignition system is a system designed to avoid fuel vapors . As can be seen in the image below , within the systems there are some redundancies ( e.g. : Dual Flow Shut Off Valve ) , but the system itself is not duplicated . Moreover the system is not on the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) , so the aircraft can still be dispatched with the system inoperative for 10 days . <URL>
For precisely this reason the <URL> had a fuel tank in the horizontal tail . However , the pilots I spoke with ( Pan Am ) did not understand the purpose and insisted that the tank is empty all the time . The A330 and A340 also have a tail fuel tank , and here its fuel level is automatically controlled . <URL> A330 tank arrangement ( picture <URL> ) . Note the trim tank in the horizontal tail . Shifting the c.g. a little back reduces drag slightly ( <URL> , depending on initial c.g. position ) but also static stability . This is no problem when the FCS adds enough stability , but in case of a system failure you should make sure that the rear tank can be emptied soon . Hand flying an aircraft with relaxed static stability <URL> . The A350 did away with this feature because it was felt that the added complexity would outweigh the benefits .
OK , I sat on my hands for a while , so now I 'll stick my head in the lion 's mouth . You should absolutely sump your tanks every time you go flying as part of a routine preflight inspection , whether you 've taken on fuel or not , whether the aircraft has been hangared or out on the ramp , and even if it 's below freezing . Water is n't the only thing you 're looking for ( misfueling happens - also bits of fuel tank sealant , rubber from a rotting bladder , dirt that made it past the fueling truck 's filters , etc. - you want to find these things ! ) Ideally if it 's below freezing you should also pre-heat your aircraft so the <URL> , instruments , and fuel are above freezing when you 're preflighting ( which is generally accomplished by sticking the plane in a heated hangar ) , but sometimes that 's not an option and you make do . Why should you sump the tanks if it 's below freezing ? Well like I said above , water is n't the only thing we 're looking for - and all those concerns still hold valid no matter what the temperature is . Water is the one that people seem to come up with as a reason for not sumping when it 's below freezing though , so let 's talk about water : There are five general ways water can manifest itself in your ( Avgas ) fuel system : Liquid Water If it 's not been below freezing ( or it 's really sunny and your fuel tanks have acted like an oven ) water may be liquid , waiting for you at the sump drain just like on a warm summer day . You 'll drain it out and go on about your business . Slush ( ice crystals suspended in the fuel ) If it 's below freezing you may have suspended ice crystals or slush in the fuel ( particularly if you just took on fuel ) . This will look " cloudy " when you drain it from the sump and it 's a good indication that today is not a good day to fly : you may have a LOT of water in the fuel , and you need to need to deal with it ( warm the plane up and drain off the water , and figure out how so much of it got in there in the first place ) . ( There is a chance that slush could jam your fuel drain open , in which case your fuel tank will empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . ) Little bits of ice Little drops of water can freeze into little bits of ice , which are often just too big to come out of the fuel sump drain , but just small enough to lodge in it and keep it from closing ( which , again , will cause your tank to empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . This is also an indication that today is not a good day to fly ) . BIG bits of ice over the sump drain Liquid water will flow to the lowest point in the fuel system ( the drains ) . If it 's below freezing it will freeze there , potentially blocking the sump drain . You 'll notice this condition because the sump valve may feel stiff , your tank may not drain , or it will drain very slowly , possibly with water in the fuel . This is a good indication that you should n't fly until you figure out what the cause of the problem is ( it could be ice , it could be a defective valve , or it could be a bunch of other things , but until you know you want to stay on the ground ) . Hidden Ice ( big bits of ice away from the sump drain ) This is perhaps the most insidious : Ice that 's not near the sump , and does n't block or jam anything . Hopefully you 'll spot this sitting at the bottom of your tank when you look in to check the fuel level ( you do visually check your fuel level , right ? ) , but you probably wo n't notice anything out of the ordinary when you sump the tank . ( There are of course other ways water can hide out in the system besides the fuel tanks , but these are where you 're most likely to find it . ) The most likely " bad thing " to happen to you in any of those scenarios is that your fuel sump will be jammed open by ice . This means you 'll spill a tank 's worth of avgas on the ground , and you 'll have to call your airport 's spill cleanup/emergency number and let them know . That emergency is on the ground , and it may be a little embarrassing to have to explain to the spill cleanup folks , but it 's better than the other possibilities . The Bad Things that can happen to you in the air if you go flying with undetected ice/water in the fuel are far worse : The ice could melt and your engine could start trying to burn water , which does n't ignite very well . <URL> for one example of how things can go catastrophically wrong if you neglect to sump your tanks ( or ignore the warning signs when you do ) .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
The issue is undoubtedly vapor lock . In the fuel injected Lyc 540 , the fuel injection plumbing is on the top of the engine which is the cold side of the engine when you are flying but when parked , heat rises ! The following procedure runs cooler fuel through the plumbing while flooding the engine , then the flooded start procedure is necessary . First , check your POH for the hot start procedure for your plane . If not there , try this as it is for a very similar airplane : Hot Starts on the Saratoga PA-32-300 : Intentionally flood the engine . This runs cool fuel through the plumbing and " breaks " the vapor lock . a ) Full rich b ) Wide open throttle c ) Fuel pump on , watch fuel flow gauge d ) When gauge registers flow , wait 3-5 seconds then red knob to ICO and pump off . Crank engine with red knob still at ICO and with throttle wide open at first . Gradually close throttle ( at a rate that will take you about 10 seconds to close the throttle ) and it should start up at some point . When engine catches , do several things more or less simultaneously : a ) release ignition key b ) throttle to idle to avoid over-revving c ) mixture full rich .
To give a comparison with an engine at idle : On the 737 NG , the <URL> can use 240 lb/hr when under load . It is rated at 90 kVA , <URL> on each engine . The engines can use about 850 lb/hr <URL> , which from those figures is about 1/10 of fuel flow at full ( takeoff ) power . So the engines use about 4 times as much fuel ( each ) as the APU does to just provide power . Of course these values will vary based on ambient conditions and the load placed on the systems ( like the bleed air system ) . This is why if a plane has to stop away from the gate for a while , they will shut down the engines and run on the APU .
Not all commercial jets have autobrakes , and the ones that do usually have a company policy dictating when it will be used . The criteria for activating the brakes are different depending on the manufacturer and model of aircraft , but are typically some combination of : System must be armed A certain takeoff power setting must be set by the throttles A certain airspeed must be obtained Thrust levers must be pulled back to idle Aircraft must still be on the ground Usually for a rejected takeoff it does use max braking , however the autobrake usually has different settings for landing along the lines of " light/medium/max " braking . Each setting will use a different amount of runway for landing , much like lightly pressing on the brake pedal in your car versus jamming it to the floor .
Broadly speaking , there are three families of motor fuel that you 're probably interested in : Diesels , Kerosenes , and Gasolines . The difference between the families mainly has to do with the molecular weight ( and thus boiling point / vapor pressure ) of the fuel components - in order above from heaviest to lightest . The differences within each family are related to refining , blending , and additives , as well as process controls imposed on the fuel . The Diesel Family In the diesel family we have things like Highway Diesel and the various grades of home heating oil . For transportation purposes these fuels are used in compression-ignition engines ( " diesel engines " ) , where a high temperature and pressure will cause the fuel to ignite and burn , producing power . For other purposes ( like heating ) we basically light the stuff on fire and are happy it burns . The Kerosene Family The Kerosene family are close cousins of the Diesels , including K-1 and K-2 Kerosene ( obviously ) and Jet-A . Jet-A is a high-purity kerosene based fuel manufactured under a specific ASTM standard ( D1655 ) , with specific physical properties , and is used in jet turbine engines . Fuel not meeting the Jet-A specification is generally recycled in the production chain for other purposes ( for example it may be used in blending kerosene for heating , or blended into highway diesel ) . Jet-A is suited for turbine engines , but can also be burned in other compression-ignition piston engines like diesel can ( there are a wide variety of <URL> available from several manufacturers ) . Other grades of Kerosene are used for motor fuels , cooking fuel ( " camp stove fuel " is typically kerosene ) heating , lighting , etc. depending on their refining and purity . The Gasoline Family In the gasoline family we have Avgas , Autogas , and " Gasohol " , all designed for use in spark-ignition engines . Aviation Gasoline ( Avgas ) Avgas actually comes in several grades , all manufactured to an ASTM standard ( D910 ) , with specific physical properties and specific permitted and required additives ( such as Tetra-Ethyl Lead - TEL ) . The grade ( octane rating ) of aviation gasoline is identified by colored dyes added to the blend . The colors used in the US are : Green : AvGas 100 ( 100/130 Octane ) Blue : AvGas 100LL ( 100/130 Octane ) ( This was formulated as a replacement for AvGas 100 , with half the lead - hence 100LL - Low Lead ) Red : AvGas 80 ( 80/87 Octane ) Generally 100LL is the most widely available aviation fuel because it works in the widest range of engines . Autogas ( automotive gasoline ) Automotive gasoline comes in multiple octane grades , but generally it 's all varying blends of " regular " ( 87 octane ) and " premium " ( 93 octane or higher ) . Automotive gasoline is manufactured under a different ASTM standard from Aviation gasoline ( there are several applicable standards , D4814 is commonly used ) , which permits different additives including ethanol ( usually up to 10 % ) . " Gasohol " Gasohol is a slang term for automotive gasoline with any amount of ethanol blended into it , but these days it 's often used to refer to blends like E85 ( 85 % Ethanol , 15 % gasoline stock ) . Flex-fuel car engines and a few other specialty engines are designed to burn this fuel . So what 's the difference ? Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later . On the other hand we do n't burn Jet-A in a Mack Truck because it would be prohibitively expensive : Highway diesel does n't have to meet the same strict tolerances as jet fuel , and theres no reason to burn a more tightly specified ( and thus more expensive ) fuel when a less expensive one is readily available . The difference between Aviation Gasoline and Automotive Gasoline is a bit more subtle : the core blend stocks are extremely similar , but the additive packages are very different . The biggest concern for aviation users is usually the ethanol commonly blended into automotive gasoline : Rubber components in aircraft fuel systems were not designed to handle alcohols , and can be damaged/degraded by ethanol . For cars the concern is the lead found in aviation gasoline . Any " modern " car ( with a catalytic converter and oxygen sensors in the exhaust system ) ca n't burn leaded fuel as the lead byproducts in the exhaust will foul both the catalyst matrix and the oxygen sensors ( though a <URL> would have no trouble burning the stuff ) . <URL> - theoretically the fuel that comes out of that process could be equally suitable as a road fuel and an aviation fuel , however the chances of it making its way t
On a low wing monoplane you 'll need a pump all the time . There will be a mechanical pump fitted to the engine for the purpose . On a high-wing monoplane the engine is often gravity feed . However , during critical phases of flight ( specifically take-off and landing ) you would n't want to have that fail so a second auxiliary electric pump is fitted that the pilot switches on beforehand and can switch off once that phase is over . The Pilot 's Operating Manual will give specific recommendations for use on any given type .
There is nothing " special " about an aircraft engine that requires lead in the fuel -- Engines do n't much care about the lead in tetraethyl lead , nor do they much care for it ( it gets everywhere , fouling sparkplugs and contaminating the oil ) . What they care about is the octane ( anti-knock ) rating of the fuel . Many " low performance " aircraft engines run just fine on unleaded fuels with a lower octane rating ( among them the Lycoming O-320 and O-360 family that power a good chunk of the GA fleet ) , but high-performance aircraft engines ( e.g. the IO-520 you 'll find in Beech Bonanzas ) require a 100 octane fuel . The approved specification for 100 octane aviation gasoline ( <URL> ) lists tetraethyl lead as the octane booster of choice . It 's also worth noting that some of the octane boosting techniques used in automotive gasoline are not acceptable for aircraft engines ( the most common in the US being the addition of ethanol , which has two undesirable effects : reducing the energy content of the fuel , and damaging aviation fuel system seals and other components ) . So why do we still make 100LL , and why do n't we offer the other unleaded options at every airport ? Aviation gasoline is a minuscule slice of the gasoline market , so it does n't make sense to have 5 tanks with 5 different grades of fuel at every airport : All aircraft engines will run on 100LL , so 100LL ( leaded ) aviation gasoline is still produced because it is a " single fuel " solution to piston aviation 's needs . If leaded avgas were to disappear tomorrow the engines that require it would be left without an approved fuel , which would result in those aircraft being grounded until such time as an alternative fuel could be developed or the engine manufacturers develop a procedure for derating the engines ( operating them at reduced power ) . For obvious reasons neither of these options is attractive , particularly to folks who own higher-power engines which were presumably purchased for the performance ... Changing the avgas specification is quite a bit of work - it requires ensuring that the new fuel is a " drop-in replacement " for 100LL -- one which can be mixed with 100LL in any proportion , and will work correctly in any engine designed for 100LL fuel . <URL> ( a Google search for also produces useful results ) , and hopefully a universal unleaded aviation fuel specification and one or more products will come out of those efforts .
The short answer is , no , generally only large aircraft have purpose-built fuel dumping systems . Such a system may be helpful in reducing aircraft gross weight to a safe landing weight in the case of a precautionary landing . The approved landing weight of smaller aircraft , such as the C172 , is generally the same as the approved takeoff weight . The longer answer is , yes , it would be possible to " dump " fuel from an aircraft such as a C172 , though not by means of a purpose built mechanism . The " dumping " would be more of a slow to moderately fast drain , depending on the means used . If I wanted to drain the fuel from one of the wing tanks in a C172 while in flight I could use a pen , screw or other such device to drain fuel from the wing tank sump . A faster dumping/draining method -- though requiring considerably more work -- would be to unscrew and remove the fuel drain valve , thereby releasing all the fuel in the wing . Obviously , this later method would hamper the possibility of draining only a portion of the fuel from the wing tank . <URL> I can not think of any reason why I would want to drain the fuel in flight apart from reducing the risk of fire in the event of an emergency landing . And in that case , my prefered method of reducing the risk of a post-landing fire would be to concentrate my efforts on the landing , not on eliminating a fuel source . Generally , I prefer to have more rather than less fuel in the tanks when I fly .
Positioning cargo such that the center of gravity of the plane is within a certain range is essential , but is there any advantage to having the center of gravity closer to some ideal point within the acceptable envelope ? There is no one ideal point for all large cargo aircraft as defined by a c.g. expressed as the percent of the mean aerodynamic chord ( % mac from here on ) . There are a lot of aircraft model and operational variations . The general idea for large aircraft like the 747 is to put the c.g. as far aft as possible while keeping undesirable operational characteristics within reason . The farther aft the c.g. is the lower the fuel burn because as you move the c.g. aft ( toward the center of lift of the wing ) , the pitch down moment of the wing lift decreases and thus the tailplane has to supply less downward force , which means there will be less overall drag and fuel efficiency goes up ( the aerodynamicists here can probably say that more succinctly ) . The operating envelopes of the airplane define how far aft you are allowed to put the c.g. . There are multiple constraints insofar as determining the aft most limit . Two obvious ones are controllability in engine-out situations and in turbulence . One does n't always try to put the c.g. just forward of the aft limit , though . There can be other considerations . For example , on 747-100/200 / 400 aircraft at typical weights , the aft c.g. limit is 33.0 % mac , but a common aiming point for the zero fuel weight c.g. is 26.6 % mac . While I do n't know all the reasons for using 26.6 % , one is that that is the location of the wing gear , so if for some reason you could n't extend the body gear , the aircraft might sit on its tail when landing depending on how much fuel you had left and how far aft of 26.6 % you are . Loadmasters for a given aircraft are a good source for what the usual aiming point is for the c.g. Would additional control surface drag be caused by cargo loaded right on the edge of operating standards ? Yes , if you had the c.g. up against the forward limit , the tailplane would have to generate a greater downward force than otherwise , and that would mean more drag . Also , on wide-body aircraft , if you were up against the maximum lateral imbalance moment , you 're going to have aileron drag that you otherwise would not have . Would finding an optimal loading be computationally complex ? Not really , especially if its the case that all pallets/containers are going to be off-loaded at a single destination . If there 's more than one off-loading destination it gets more complicated since you 'd want those pallets getting off first to be positioned such that you could move them to the cargo door without having to move pallets not getting off . There might be other constraints as well . For example , let 's say you had a 30,000 lb pallet to be put aboard a 747-100/200 / 400 . The only area that can take that kind of weight in a single size M pallet is over the wing box . That limits you to using one side of three side-by-side position pairs . Let 's say you put that pallet on the left side of the aft most side-by-side position pair . That 's fine , but you have now limited the right side to a max of 6250 lb . You also have to ensure that you do n't violate cumulative loading limits from the front of the aircraft to the middle and from the aft to the middle , and a few other things besides . Computer programs for doing weight &amp; balance for large cargo aircraft have been able to handle all of these things since the 1980s . I wrote a DOS application in 1988 that did all these things and was eventually used by three cargo carriers . It was finally phased out in 2016 . The algorithm it used was straight forward . Sort the pallets by weight and allocate from heaviest to lightest . Put the heaviest in the position closest to the target c.g. . Then put the next pallet either aft or forward of the previous depending on which will produce a c.g. closest to the target , and so forth . After each position allocation , it checked to see if any limitation had been violated . If so , it reallocated until there were no violations . Even on slow computers of the DOS era , it never took more than a few seconds to complete . How many cargo pallets/containers fit in a large cargo aircraft ? Depends on the size of the containers and the size of the aircraft . There are a lot of choices . Go to this <URL> to see common sizes . For 747s carrying civilian cargo , size code M is probably the most used on the main deck , with either 29 or 30 positions . For military cargo size code B was that size I mostly saw on the 747 main deck , usually with 33 aboard . The lower holds on 747s had a lot of variability insofar as the ULDs used down there . If you want to explore 747 cargo position configurations , go to this <URL> . The POSITION CONFIG menu will allow you to select different configurations between 30 , 29 , and 33 main deck positions . After selecting a configuration , you can scroll down to see the arrangement ( or pres
The worst case depends on the kind of bullet . If a tracer bullet hits an empty fuel tank which contains a mixture of air and fuel vapor , an explosion will follow . A regular bullet will just punch a hole into the tank , but will not be hot enough to start combustion . On today 's airliners and combat aircraft the fuel tanks will be filled with an inert gas , so there is not enough oxidizer present to support combustion . Even the tracer bullet will have no effect . Now the tank will have a hole , however , and if it is below the fuel level , some of it will leak out and could be ignited by a hot object . This will be the main source of fire , but will not lead to an explosion . Since WWII , most military aircraft used <URL> , to much the same effect . This was a double-skinned tank with a rubber middle layer which would swell when wetted with fuel and close the hole .
You can not " switch off " a stage of a turbine engine . As seen <URL> jet engines are a single block mechanically locked together : all the stages ( compressor AND turbine ) connected to the same shaft . If the shaft turns , all connected stages turn with it . You can have designs with multiple shafts , but this increases the complexity ( design and maintenance ) heavily . Even if we assume for a moment that you could have 1 shaft per stage , stopping one of these would be generally a bad idea . For acoustic reasons the number of blades on the stationary part of the stage and those on the rotary part must be prime to each other ( example : 37 blades on the stationary side and 39 on the rotary one ) ; this means that when the rotary part stops you can not align all the blades with the stationary ones , creating drag and losses within the engine , thus reducing the efficiency . How would efficiency of a Jet Engine change , if we assume for a second that its a possibility , to stop a few stages ( turn them into free instead of locked ) ? You would still decrease the efficiency : compressor stages are the ones actually <URL> ( you would then produce less thrust * ) and the turbine stages are the ones extracting energy from the exahust . * : you could even risk having the flame going upstream if you stop too many compressor stages and not having enough pressure at the combustion chamber inlet .
end question
start question
How often is a passenger jet aircraft painted ?
As always , it depends . From what I 've seen and read , it 's usually redone every 5-10 years . This can vary on various factors from paintshop availability , to new color scheme rollout , to deterioration of the previous one due to bad painting , to quality of the paint used . Sometimes , special liveries are just an aviation specific sticker that 's put onto an aircraft , other times it 's fully painted onto the aircraft , just depending on the airline , the planned length of time for it to be special , and any other considerations .
The FAA has <URL> disturbances into four levels : Level 1 : Disruptive behavior - suspicious or threatening Level 2 : Physically abusive behavior Level 3 : Life-threatening behavior Level 4 : Attempted or actual breach of the flight deck These are also ICAO standard classifications from the restricted Doc 9811 , according to <URL> . I 'm not sure who came up with them first . That IATA document also provides sample things that might be considered to be each level .
What 's the main purpose of this detection system even there are brake temperature sensors . Far more often than not , the need for brake temperature sensors is after landing to tell you how hot the brakes are . If you had to use heavy braking upon landing , they 're going to be hot . How hot they are tells the captain in part how he needs to taxi and whether he should advise ground personnel to stay away from the sides of the tires where the thermal plgus are and possibly to use cooling equipment ( typically a huffer ) to cool them down . Wheel well temperature sensors are needed after takeoff . The potential problem here is that you need to keep an eye on how warm the wheel well is getting from the hot tires you have retracted and enclosed in the wheel well . As an example , let 's say you have a 747 freighter loaded to a max takeoff weight of 825,000 lbs or more at Honolulu and taking off on RWY 8R . That 's 20,000 feet of taxiing and another 10,000 feet plus of takeoff roll . The flexing of the tires during that taxi and takeoff generates a lot of heat . Once the wheels are in the wells , that heat transfers into the wells and eventually leaves the airplane . However , if for whatever reason , the tires already had a lot of extra heat before the taxi started or a lot of braking was done during the taxi , or the airplane was stuck down low in warmer air after takeoff , whatever , the wheel well temperature might exceed the safe limit . The solution is usually simple , drop the gear and cool the tires . If you do n't you risk a wheel well fire . Some aircraft do have this detection system ( many Boeing aircraft ) , some do not . Why ? The short answer is that they have been designed so that they do n't need it , which begs the question : why are n't all aircraft designed such that they do n't need it . Essentially every aircraft design includes compromises . It 's all part of tailoring the design to best accomplish what the aircraft 's primary task is to be . Using the 747 example , you could , for example , install a cooling system in the wheel wells to take care of the heat , or you could use heavier tires that did n't flex as much and thus did n't heat up as much , or you could have additional structure able to resist the heat or dissipate it quicker . But whatever means you used , it would mean hauling around more weight and the attendant costs in fuel and loss of payload capability when you did n't need it most of the time . Far better to avoid those high costs , but in the interests of safety install a much lighter system that will alert you to the need to cool off the wheel well by dropping the gear . Insofar as potential 747 wheel well overheats are concerned , baring mechanical failure , it 's generally a problem only when the aircraft is used in a manner that it was n't designed for . For example , the 747 was designed as a long-haul transport . As such , there would be plenty of time for the wheels to cool down in the wheel wells . As I remember we were told in ground school that 5.5 hours was the cool down time . So , if you have a short leg and then a quick turn with high weights , you might be taking off with tires that have more heat in them than the system was designed to handle . When JAL decided to use the 747 for high-density , short hauls within Japan , Boeing came up with the 747SR ( Short Range ) which included a redesign of the undercarriage as well as several other things . The design goal was that that any commuter airliner needs : short legs , frequent takeoffs and landings , and it made sense to optimize the design for that criteria , and that optimization required a decrease in range and payload as I remember .
You assessment is flawed in that it does not take different air density in account . You state the following conditions : FL320 80 kt headwind 355 kt groundspeed 1000 nm distance and you are proposing descending to the following conditions : FL220 40 kt headwind At 32,000 ft , standard conditions are around 275 hPa , 225 K and density of 0.43 kg m $ ^ { -3 } $ . If your 80 kt wind is a pure headwind , a 355 kt groundspeed translates into a 435 kt TAS . If we correct this TAS for the ambient conditions we get an indicated airspeed of about 255 KIAS . This is the airspeed that really matters because it is what the airplane experiences as it interacts with the atmosphere . If we descend to FL220 , where standard conditions are 430 hPa , 244 K and 0.61 m $ ^ { -3 } $ , an airspeed of 255 KIAS yields a TAS of 363 kt TAS . If we have a headwind of 40 its , this yields a groundspeed of 323 kt . This is about 30 kt slower than you were flying at FL320 . A flight of 1000 nm will take about 15 minutes longer to complete . However , it is most likely possible that the airplane you were in is capable of flying faster than 255 KIAS at FL220 and in fact is probably capable of somewhere around 310 KIAS . Flying at 310 KIAS at FL220 will have true airspeed or 440 KTAS and with the 40 kt headwind a ground speed of 400 kt . This will get you to your destination faster , but at the expense of a much higher fuel burn . It is also likely that you could have been flying faster at FL320 ( not sure what max mach number would have been for you ) , but also at the expense of burning more fuel . If the airplane was n't dispatched for the additional fuel burn to go faster at FL220 , then after descending you would probably not have enough fuel to go fast enough to make up the difference in true airspeeds .
Your assumption is correct - it is indeed about infrared ( wavelength between 750 nm and 10,000 nm ) and ultraviolet ( wavelength between 100 nm and 400 nm ) radiation . The sensor detected two specific wavelengths , one from each range . Every body has an <URL> which is consistent with its temperature . This radiation has an intensity distribution which shifts to shorter wavelengths with temperature . By comparing the intensity of the IR and UV parts of this radiation , the sensor can much better distinguish between radiation sources of different temperature . Flares are normally hotter than engine exhausts , so by detecting an excess of UV radiation , the sensor can distinguish between flares and exhaust pipes . <URL> " Wiens law " by 4C - <URL> . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Commons . Natural disturbances means reflected sunlight off a polished aircraft surface or canopy , or off lakes or windows on the ground . Even after filtering by the upper atmosphere , sunlight will contain much more UV radiation than your average exhaust pipe , and glares were a big distraction to early thermal seekers . Sunlight would correspond to the green line in the diagram above , while the exhaust would be even below the dark red line . Note that the absolute intensity also goes up with temperature , but would not help in identifying the temperature of a target if only one wavelength is observed . A more distant , hotter target would cause the same intensity than a colder , closer one . By sensing two wavelengths , the sensor could much better tell an exhaust pipe from other heat sources . To answer the question directly : The UV signature of the aircraft itself is practically zero except for the reflection of the UV part of sunlight , and the active UV emission of a jet engine is extremely low and concentrated around its exhaust when seen from behind . Lighting the afterburner will increase the UV radiation , but it will still be much less relative to the IR radiation that that of , say , <URL> .
<URL> notes that medical oxygen containers - whether for the storage , generation , or dispensing of oxygen - must be : 135.91 . a. 1 . i Of an approved type or in conformity with the manufacturing , packaging , marking , labeling , and maintenance requirements of title 49 CFR parts 171 , 172 , and 173 , except § 173.24 ( a ) ( 1 ) 135.91 . a. 1 . ii When owned by the certificate holder , maintained under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program ; 135.91 . a. 1 . iii Free of flammable contaminants on all exterior surfaces ; and 135.91 . a. 1 . iv Appropriately secured . 135.91 . a. 2 When the oxygen is stored in the form of a liquid , the equipment must have been under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program since its purchase new or since the storage container was last purged . 135.91.a.3.i-ii When the oxygen is stored in the form of a compressed gas as defined in title 49 CFR 173.300 ( a ) When owned by the certificate holder , it must be maintained under its approved maintenance program ; and The pressure in any oxygen cylinder must not exceed the rated cylinder pressure . 135.91 . a. 4 The pilot in command must be advised when the equipment is on board , and when it is intended to be used . 135.91 . a. 5 The equipment must be stowed , and each person using the equipment must be seated , so as not to restrict access to or use of any required emergency or regular exit , or of the aisle in the passenger compartment . 135.91 . b No person may smoke and no certificate holder may allow any person to smoke within 10 feet of oxygen storage and dispensing equipment carried under paragraph ( a ) of this section . 135.91.c No certificate holder may allow any person other than a person trained in the use of medical oxygen equipment to connect or disconnect oxygen bottles or any other ancillary component while any passenger is aboard the aircraft 135.91 . d Paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section does not apply when that equipment is furnished by a professional or medical emergency service for use on board an aircraft in a medical emergency when no other practical means of transportation ( including any other properly equipped certificate holder ) is reasonably available and the person carried under the medical emergency is accompanied by a person trained in the use of medical oxygen . Part 91 does not seem to speak to medical oxygen Additionally , a <URL> notes that : In the DOT final rule , section 382.133 generally requires that air carriers conducting passenger service must permit someone with a disability to use an FAA-approved portable oxygen concentrator ( POC ) on all flights ( on aircraft originally designed to have a maximum passenger capacity of more than 19 seats ) unless the device does not meet applicable FAA requirements for medical portable electronic devices ( M-PED ) and does not display a manufacturer 's label that indicates the device meets those FAA requirements . The page goes on to list approved oxygen containers . So , it seems that the FAA does not consider POCs to be hazardous , so long as they meet certain FAA approval standards . ( If you are asking about General Aviation requirements , I would assume an FAA-certified POC is okay to bring on a GA flight as well )
I did n't do statistics , but <URL> lists units to low tens a year worldwide . Most of them happen at airport due to fire indication ( sometimes even false ) or smoke on board . On the ground , fire spreads a lot faster than while flying , because when flying , the wind is too strong and blowing the flames off . The most notable example would be <URL> . The aircraft was already at the gate when the flames were first noticed , evacuation was immediately initiated and by the time everybody left , it was already engulfed in flames , about 3 minutes after the fire started . While China Air might not be " western " in strict sense of the world , it is largest airline on Taiwan and follows the same standards . Another notable accident is <URL> . Here are some recent evacuations mentioned on AvHerald : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Notice , that they are all smoke or fire events . For some other reasons , see e.g. : <URL> <URL> two similar accidents where both aircraft were evacuated via slides . The reason in these , and many other gear collapse incidents , is that they do n't want to wait in a damaged plane where there is a risk of fire , plus the difficulty of getting stairs to the aircraft resting in strange attitude .
The multiple methods of braking help to stop an aircraft faster , both through providing different means of braking and complementing each other . The wheel brakes are the primary method of braking on the aircraft . They work at any speed and can provide good braking force depending on the amount of friction between the tires and ground . Brakes convert the aircraft 's kinetic energy into heat , and have a limited ability to dissipate that heat . Aircraft may be delayed from taking off to allow brakes to cool down after a rejected takeoff or a short turnaround . Brakes wear down over time and must be replaced . Aircraft that are light and slow may be fine with only wheel brakes , as the other methods are less effective in this case and would add complexity and weight . Speed brakes or spoilers usually extend from the top surface of the wing . This both increases drag and reduces the lift produced by the wings , and are most effective at higher speeds . Reduced lift means more weight on the wheels , increasing their friction and the effectiveness of brakes . Airliners will typically extend the spoilers immediately after touchdown to increase braking and control effectiveness as they slow down . Aircraft are required to be able to demonstrate a rejected takeoff and stop using only brakes and spoilers on a dry runway . Techniques such as keeping the nose high as long as possible or just holding up elevator can also add aerodynamic braking . Reverse thrust redirects some of the engine 's thrust forward . This provides a braking force and for engines under the wing also helps interrupt airflow over the wing , reducing lift . Jet engines redirect core and/or fan air forward , propellers may change pitch to push the air forward . This can be particularly important on contaminated runways were low friction limits the effectiveness of the brakes . Reverse thrust is generally only used at higher speeds to reduce the risk the debris or exhaust being ingested . These are the primary methods available on airliners . Brakes are the most versatile but require friction and must be replaced . Speed brakes and reverse thrust use aerodynamic forces at higher speeds to help slow down , and increase effectiveness of brakes . Speed brakes are basically " free " , reverse thrust is relatively cheap and effective . Reducing the load placed on wheel brakes reduces temperature and wear ; steel brakes deteriorate much more at higher temperatures . Having multiple methods provides some redundancy as well , but when runway friction is poor it 's important that they are all used effectively to stop the aircraft . Drag chutes are another option to slow down . Upon landing , the parachute is released and uses drag to slow an aircraft down . The parachute provides large amounts of drag but must be collected and re-packed after every landing . This is useful for aircraft with high landing speeds where cost is less of an issue , such as fighter jets or the space shuttle . Tail hooks grab cables on the ground , and the cable provides the braking force to the aircraft . This can stop the aircraft quickly but requires an aircraft designed with a hook that can withstand the braking forces . Hooks are useful on aircraft carriers where space is at a premium , but this requires pilot skill to touch down in the right place for the hook to catch the cable . Hooks can also be used on regular runways for emergencies , where the extended hook will catch the cable as the aircraft rolls past .
Systems vary . Transport aircraft and larger biz aircraft have airpacks handling the AC and at flight idle power settings there is less bleed air , and pressurization is a priority . The packs simply do not have full power when in a flight idle descent on many aircraft . The aircraft I routinely fly have separate radial compressor driven refrigerant systems , and have large heat loads from onboard electronics and laser systems . They have to remain cool , and normally both AC systems are left on until just prior to engine shutoff after taxi . If it is a hot environment , we use the APU and keep the AC on after engine shutdown . Once again , the situation is different in different aircraft , and is dependent upon the cooling system , the power plants , the installations and the design and operational goals . Addendum # 1 : Some aircraft APUs can provide bleed air for cabin pressurization , but this is not universal . Also , some aircraft , such as the 787 do not use engine bleed air for pressurization , and rather use electrical compressors . The flow of pressurized air is rather constant in flight .
Unfortunately , having been on board in this situation I can tell you what happened on board my flight : The deceased was covered and secured in the seat . The passenger sitting next to the deceased were relocated . Needless to say , it was a very somber flight . No announcements were made to the effect , but for the people sitting around the rows , it was very sobering . The aircraft landed and everyone was told to remain in their seats . ER staff along with a bunch of other personnel came onboard . The body was removed . Passengers were deplaned . Years later , I was watching an episode of <URL> where an Emirates flight suffers a similar tragedy where a business class passenger is found unconcious . In addition to the normal scenario on board that I faced , the documentary revealed that : The crew was changed The person was pronounced dead by the local authorities
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
There is a good writeup <URL> that explains the engine issues as well as the rest of the incident you mentioned . Core lock happens when parts inside the engine cool off at different rates , causing interference between them . In the case of the CF34 engines on these Bombardier jets : GE isolated the problem to contact between components of the high-pressure-turbine interstage seal - a static , pressurized honeycomb component - and the rotating seal teeth on the outer torque coupling . Working on getting a good illustration of what they are talking about . This does not mean that the engine is " not functional . " There is just much more resistance on the rotating components , but once the temperatures have time to equalize , the components will break free . According to the NTSB , FDR data indicate that the engine cores were beginning to break free just before the impact . During core lock , the resistance makes starting the engine more difficult . A windmill start does not provide very much turning force on the engine components , so the resistance from core lock makes that method of starting difficult . GE has done engine testing , and when the windmill restart fails , they are able to use bleed air from the other engine to restart the engine , which provides more turning force .
Very good answers but this image from @Qantas94Heavy comment link is self explanatory !
Military aircraft rarely have any sort of keys or any sort of authentication systems , they rely on physical security measures to prevent people from getting to the airplanes in the first place , like fences , dogs , cameras , guards , and of course guns . If there were no physical barriers then you have 3 major barriers to being able to steal a fighter jet : Support : just about every military fighter aircraft has an assigned crew to prepare it for flight and help the pilot ( s ) get in it . Without this crew you 'd have to get the airplane powered up , fueled up , and then you 'd have to figure out how to get into it and get the ladder removed . There 's a lot of knowledge you 'd need to do all this , just knowing how to open the canopy is n't going to be immediately obvious Starting : starting up a fighter is n't like starting a car , you do n't hit a button and everything happens for you , there 's fuel tanks and pumps , hydraulic systems , electrical systems , and engine management . You 'd have to know where to find all of the switches , dials and levers , and the sequence in which to use them . This is n't something you 'd be able to guess , you 'd need knowledge of the particular airplane Flying : high performance jets are challenging to fly , and by flying I mean aviating , navigating , and communicating . Although modern fighters have a lot of computers to help out with this the systems require a great deal of training to use , and if you do n't know exactly what you are doing you are most likely going to dig a big hole in the ground If you know how to start and fly the airplane there 's nothing stopping you from doing it , provided you can solve the problems of prepping and getting in the airplane . In fact , it 's been done when pilots defect with their airplanes , see the comments below for some great examples .
I always track my flights , so here is my experience : App using offline maps As it has been said , you will need an app which can download maps prior to the flight . I never had a flight with onboard wifi , but I guess , there 's usually a data volume constraint , which could make it expensive . I use <URL> ( Android ) , which is an offline navigation system for cars etc. . The maps can be obtained from within the app , the user has the choice between free maps from the <URL> project and TomTom maps , which you have to pay . The maps can be downloaded per country , and big maps are subdivided into smaller pieces . For example , the very detailed map for Germany is divided into four parts , together about 0.8 GB of data . The entire USA can be downloaded per state , all together 1.7 GB . It 's possible to configure several fields at the bottom of the screen to display speed , altitude , GPS coordinates , distance to destination and so on . I mainly use this app to explore a country ( e.g. by car ) on vacation , but it 's also fun to use it on board to see what 's that location below us . You may switch off speed camera warning . I once got a warning over Switzerland . The 840km/h were well above the max speed limit of 120km/h , and the fine should have been in the order of seizing all property of the airline . For some reason , the pilot did n't care ... OK , lots of advantages , but there 's also a drawback : The app can not just record your flight , though a menu for tracking exists . Nor can it display your currently covered track . It can only record a track when it 's navigating you , but you do n't want to hear " turn around ! turn around ! " all the time ... Tracking app Again , there should be thousands of apps out there . I 'm using <URL> , which can also display your position / track on an online map . So , you just see a point moving on a gray screen while flying . However , this app allows to record your track , with up to one point per second , and at the end , you can export it as GPX file , which is the standard . It can be opened by many map tools , also by googles MyMaps or what it 's called . The file contains coordinates , precision , time , altitude , speed , number of satellites and course . One hint : This app makes a sanity check between speed reported by the GPS module and speed calculated from recorded points . If this fails , it does n't display/record any speed . This often happens onboard , so switch this check off . Here is a flight from Düsseldorf ( DUS ) to Las Palmas , Gran Canaria ( LPA ) , including altitude profile , drawn with Marble ( Linux KDE program ) : <URL> Precision An airliner is usually made of aluminum , which makes it a huge faraday 's cage . The reception of any radio waves is very limited ( through the windows ) , and so is GPS . And as GPS needs a line of sight to several satellites spread as much as possible over the entire sky , the only chance is to have a window seat . There , I usually get a very good GPS signal , while it 's already very bad to unusable on the next seat , and do n't even think about it on the aisle seat . Having a window seat , I usually get a good signal . While taxiing , the precision is quite good , as on this flight from Frankfurt ( FRA ) : <URL> Of course , the strength and accuracy of the GPS signal relies on the quality of the GPS module of your phone . My last phone was n't so good , I often had jumps of several 100m sidewards , or from 7000m to 10000m altitude . This is just because accuracy comes with the number of satellites , which usually increases with altitude . And : The first aim of GPS is to locate your position , the altitude usually is less important . With my current phone , I do n't see such problems . No sudden steps aside , and altitude and speed were quite the same as displayed on the entertainment system . Well , not entirely . I noticed my phone showing an altitude about 50m too high when landing on my last flight . The 20m shown by the entertainment system were plausible , as the airport was nearly on sea level / in the sea . But the too high altitude was still there , even at the beach . Keep in mind the earth is n't a sphere , it 's an ellipsoid , though even that 's not correct , it 's more like a potato . So , sea level is n't the same everywhere . High quality/price GPS receivers know this and contain data to compensate it , but cheap ones just use the ellipsoid model . ( However , 50m is nothing during flight , and what do you expect from a phone inside the cabin ... ) More hints For a working GPS , the receiver needs a list of all GPS satellites and their precise orbits ( " almanach " ) , current time and its rough position . If it does not have its rough position , it takes much more time to get a fix ( first GPS position ) . And if it does n't have a recent almanach , it has to listen to the satellites for a while , as they slowly broadcast it . As reception of radio signals is quite difficult inside the cabin , it may be very hard to get a fix , and even impossible to get the almanach . So , it 's good practice to prepare your phone before the flight , as
<URL> has declared values for part shipments , including one with the 140N2139-4 , which is the assembly containing the seal , mid pane , and outer pane for the 737 NG . The declared value is 24,562 INR which is currently about 375 USD . A shipment of 20 also listed has a lower unit price . For searching purposes GKN has part numbers in <URL> You typically have to ask for a quote from suppliers .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
Every country handles aircraft registration differently ( but generally similar ) . Im sure Boeing could tell you who they originally delivered the airframe to but if it was sold from there it could legally go anywhere and would only be subject to local registration legislation . Here in the <URL> but not all countries may keep a record like that and as far as I know there is no global aircraft registry . it is still impossible to find actual aircraft 's owner in a matter of minutes Knowing who the owner is and finding the owner are two very different things . <URL> Several aviation databases list the Boeings -- identified by their call signs TF-ARN , TF-ARH , TF-ARM -- as belonging to leasing firm Air Atlanta Icelandic , but that company says it sold them in 2008 . Since then , the aircraft appear to have changed hands several times . Malaysia Airports says it 's entitled to sell the Boeings under the country 's civil aviation regulations if no owner comes forward . So it seems they do know who owned them at some point ( most likely the last people to put readable registration numbers on them ) .
All your plane 's systems are happier when you 're flying , including the pilot . Ideally you 'd fly often in order to keep your engine happy ( distributing clean oil throughout the system to protect against corrosion , and heating it enough to drive off water from the crank case ) . As a rule of thumb <URL> . Their threshold used to be 10 hours , so I personally try to fly at least 10 hours a month much when practical , but 5 at a minimum . Blackstone has a LOT of data on aircraft engine wear patterns accumulated , and I generally trust their insight in this regard ( after all they 're not trying to sell me an engine , just asking me to pay them to play with my used oil ) . When weather or other factors mean you ca n't fly enough to keep your engine " active " you can preserve it in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions , but let 's be honest , most of us are n't going to " pickle " our engines for the winter . It 's a LOT of work , and it means you ca n't go fly on those nice winter days we sometimes get . In situations like this it may be beneficial to ground-run your engine ( say at least on a monthly basis ) just to keep things lubricated and happy . Ground runs at a little below runup power or a fast idle are usually the order of the day here . Taxiing around is also probably a good idea , if practical , to keep your wheel bearings and related components moving -- maybe take your plane down to the runup pad and back . When doing the ground run you want to observe a few guidelines to make sure what you 're doing is actually beneficial to the engine : Make sure you 've got clean oil in the plane ! Any time you think the plane is going to be inactive you want to have good , clean oil in the engine ( and you want to have done a thorough ground run or flight to spread that clean oil everywhere ) . This gives you optimal protection against corrosion . Treat it like a flight . Preflight the plane like you 're taking it up , even if you 're not . You may not be flying much because of the weather , so there 's a real chance your plane 's systems will be in less-than-excellent shape . That thorough walk-around may catch a potentially expensive problem before it becomes a real issue . <URL> Hand-in-hand with treating it like a real flight , you want to make sure you 're not abusing your engine in the name of protecting it . Get the engine oil to normal operating temperature . Part of the point of the ground run is to drive off water that has condensed in your oil -- oil is good for metal parts , and water is bad for them . If you do n't get the engine oil up to normal middle-of-the-green-arc temperatures and keep it there for a good while ( 20-30 minutes at least ) you may not be driving out the water , which can lead to a very unhappy engine . If you do n't get the oil up to operating temperature long enough you may wind up doing more harm than good ! Combustion blow-by leaking around the piston rings contains water ( and a bunch of other corrosive things your engine does n't like ) , and really short ground runs that do n't bring the engine to temperature are mainly just causing wear from the startup and dumping these nasty things into your oil . Your engine is not going to like that . Run long enough to recharge your battery . Watch your ammeter / load meter after startup , and make sure that your battery has been replenished before you shut down . This means running your engine at a high enough RPM that the charging system can charge the battery ( a fast idle is usually fine ) , and long enough that the battery can be charged ( which is n't a problem , because if you were paying attention to # 4 you 've noticed we 'll be running the engine a good while anyway ) . Monitor your cylinder head temperatures . If equipped with CHT probes , make sure you 're not exceeding the CHT limits for your engine during the ground runs . This goes hand in hand with # 7 below . Lean your mixture to avoid fouling your plugs . You should be using less than 65 % of your engine 's max rated power for these ground runs -- in fact you should probably be somewhere around 50-60 % . Rather than running full rich , pull back on the red knob and let the engine burn cleaner ( but keep an eye out for the warning signs of detonation/preignition ) . You probably only want to do this if you 've got Cylinder Head Temperature readouts you trust -- when in doubt you can always run full rich ( for the added cylinder cooling ) and just clean your plugs . Depending on the outside air temperature your ground run may last anywhere from 30 minute to 90 minutes ( I 've not personally had one last longer than that , though it 's theoretically possible I suppose ) -- it all depends on how long # 4 and # 5 above take . A final thought : I use ASL CamGuard in my oil . It goes in with every oil change . <URL> , and there seems to be ample real-world-anecdotal evidence as well as a good amount of actual materials testing research that indicates it 's a pretty decent corrosion inhibitor . I 've not had my plane/engine long enough to know if this treatme
end question
start question
How are forces on the landing gear reduced or compensated for at touchdown ?
There are lots of forces acting on the gear at the point of landing . The best way to minimize loads on the gear is to land smooth ( I know that sounds obvious ) . For what it 's worth you do not necessarily want to spin up the gear before landing for a few reasons . First off you would need to spin up the gear to precisely ( or at least very close to ) the speed that the plane was going to touch down at . If you spin the gear up faster you actually will create a problem by accelerating the plane when it touches down . Spinning the gear up can also have a serious <URL> ( since you now have a fast rotating mass ) ( <URL> ) that will affect the handling of the aircraft . On top of that remember that in aviation it 's often about cost . What are the costs to maintain a system that pre-spins the gear vs the cost of tires . Some times its actually cheaper and easier to make a part that wears out some what quickly and replace it often , then design a complex system that require maintenance and up keep . It appears that <URL> for spin up have been looked into but the rotational inertia problem seems to be more of a concern than wheal wear . I would imagine that unintentional side loads on gear are a bigger issue and bigger cause of wear on the landing assembly . Keep in mind that the addition of an assembly like this also adds weight to the aircraft , and no one likes weight that is not needed . This is a great <URL> on the topic that suggests ( in their conclusion ) a pre spin situation would see 1.07 % of the wear of a static situation . They go on to state that that they used a simple linear approximation and only accounted for forces in one direction but it would seem that it is beneficial for the tire . On a side note <URL> even suggests the tires can be remolded so even if the are replaced often it seems they are recycled a few times . an A340 will complete roughly 6,000 take-offs and landings , calling for about 25 sets of replacement tires , each 1.30 m high and weighing about 200 kg . The tires can be remolded several times before they are finally scrapped . In general , it 's the job of the pilot to reduce the forces on the landing gear when landing . One of the best descriptions I have ever heard of landing is that the goal is not to land but to " transition " . In other words what you really want to do is transition the load from the wings to the landing gear as smooth as possible , this will reduce the load on the gear . In some cases ( short runway heavy plane ) your landing may see more force on the gear . I have never flown a 737 , but I can tell you that I can put a Piper Warrior down on a 7000-foot strip with out ever feeling that you have touched the ground .
They use the airport power . The airport and its important equipment have backup power and/or a dedicated power plant ( which itself will have backup plans ) . This is what the FAA says : The FAA recognizes the need to have a reliable power source to operate NAVAIDs , even during utility power outages . Order 6030.20 establishes Continuous Power Airports ( CPAs ) that provide continuous operations in the event of an area-wide utility failure . Backup power to designated runways at these airports must be able to supply power for at least 4 hours for runway lighting as well as navigation , landing and communication equipment . In addition , FAA policy also requires that power systems used for support of Category ( CAT ) II and CAT-III operations must be capable of transferring to an alternate source within one second . Source : <URL> Basically it 's to avoid having to <URL> . Select airports and runways have to be able to operate . ICAO recommends the same thing and lists the criteria airports need to meet in Annex 14 , section 8.1 Secondary power supply . For example : 8.1.5 Recommendation . -- Requirements for a secondary power supply should be met by either of the following : -- independent public power , which is a source of power supplying the aerodrome service from a substation other than the normal substation through a transmission line following a route different from the normal power supply route and such that the possibility of a simultaneous failure of the normal and independent public power supplies is extremely remote ; or -- standby power unit ( s ) , which are engine generators , batteries , etc. , from which electric power can be obtained . For navaids in general that are not within an airport , then ICAO Annex 10 , Volume I , Part I , Chapter 2 handles the recommendations .
First off , the thud and deceleration may be more related to the conditions as well as the runway length than pilot skill , but lets discuss some of your questions . 1 ) Please elaborate on the stress tolerances built into various parts of the landing gear of common commercial aircraft , such as the Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 ? This is a complex question to answer simply as airplane gear sees lost of loads and some compromises are made for simplicity of operation . For one the rubber used on the tires is quite thick since some of it does wear away on every landing since the gear is not spinning when the plane touches down ( you can <URL> ) The tradeoff here is weight ( you need to haul the tires around with you ) but they can be used for many cycles . The vertical load is generally handled by an <URL> these allow for a margin of error but they ( or the gear system ) can be bottomed out and a <URL> . The last serious load that gear sees is usually side loads when a crosswind landing is made . These are tough to mitigate and its generally the job of the pilot to reduce these loads they will manifest them selves as tire wear and mechanical wear . Perhaps the coolest solution to this was the B-52 's full rotating gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) One of the more interesting non Oleo designs for GA gear is the rubber disks used on Mooneys . These are said to require less maintenance and are easier to replace but are far less forgiving than Oleo struts . <URL> ( <URL> ) Some of the vertical force is absorbed by the tire its self when the plane touches down the tire does ballon out a bit . As such it is of vital importance that the tire pressure is within a small margin since low pressure can cause excessive ballooning which would lead to side wear depending on gear design . 2 ) What kind of stress testing is done on crucial parts of the landing gear , such as tyres , wheels , axles and hydraulic parts ? These parts are generally made by different manufactures and are designed to comply with the aircrafts specs as set fourth by the builder ( Boeing etc ) . Like everything else on a plane these parts have a cycle life ( TO/LD ) and are replaced when necessary . Since they are high impact I would assume the life is on the shorter side generally speaking . Here is <URL> on how to care and maintain tires for aircrafts . Heres some good info on <URL> as well . 3 ) What are the backups and fail-safe measures designed into such landing gear ? This depends on the plane , bigger planes generally need to spread the load out over more axles/tires which gives them greater redundancy a plane like a 747 has 2 sets of twin axle main gear on each side of the plane so you could lose an axle and still be ok ( relatively speaking ) <URL> ( <URL> ) compare this with a 737 and you will see that the main gear is less redundant as its a single axle only system . In this case losing one of two tires would be less catastrophic than losing all the gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) Compare this all to a smaller GA plane where you generally have a single wheel situation <URL> ( <URL> ) The one thing all these planes have in common is that the nose wheel is the most delicate part of the landing gear . Hard landings on the nose wheel can collapse the gear or cause porpoising both of which are bad . This is what happens if the gear does not <URL> in other words that nose gear saw complete side loads . Planes have be successfully landed with collapsed nose gear or nose gear that wont come down . Its a sight but generally speaking its not the worst thing to happen . Sensors : The only sensor I know of on the gear ( and this is plane dependent ) is the <URL> which is a simple on off for being on the ground or not . The FDR will record 3-axis acceleration but that will be of the airframe which is behind the Oleo struts so the gear its self may see higher loads .
Yes , such system exists , for example the <URL> . * It was <URL> and installed as an option on the Boeing 707-300 freight aircraft . Other aircraft that had a similar ( optional ) system include the L1011 and Boeing 747 . It is mostly found on freight aircraft because they have a less predictable load distribution ( centre of gravity ) than passenger aircraft . The reason they are not common is that they add cost in the form of installation , weight and maintenance . While quite accurate when in good condition , the reliability of the weighing systems used to be poor , which probably contributed to the fact they never became wide spread . Because crew are commonly operating on several aircraft types these days that have take-off weights of more than 100 metric tonne difference ( e.g. A330 and A340 , B747-400 and B747-8 ) there is an increase in take-off weight confusion related incidents . This , combined with the fact that systems are becoming more reliable , makes it likely that these weighing systems will be used more in the future . * An <URL> in a 1987 Flight issue .
As late as possible to still meet your company 's specific stabilized approach guidelines ( mine were 500 ft VMC , 1000 ft IMC ) . If you need the drag , then use them earlier . In the EMB-145 in still wind or a headwind you could cross the FAF at 250 kts and clean and be on speed and configured by 1000 ' if you dropped the gear at the FAF ( and opened the speed brakes and the first notch of flaps all at once ) . Normally though , I 'd drop the gear around 1000 ' . Acronyms : VMC = visual meteorological conditions IMC = instrument meteorological conditions FAF = final approach fix EMB-145 is the type designator for the Embraer 145 regional jet
According to <URL> : During a belly landing , there is normally extensive damage to the airplane . Belly landings carry the risk that the aircraft may flip over , disintegrate , or catch fire if it lands too fast or too hard . Extreme precision is needed to ensure that the plane lands as straight and level as possible while maintaining enough airspeed to maintain control . Strong crosswinds , low visibility , damage to the airplane , or unresponsive instruments or controls greatly increase the danger of performing a belly landing . Still , belly landings are one of the most common types of aircraft accidents , and are normally not fatal if executed carefully . It is possible that the friction from a belly landing could wear a hole through the underside of the fuselage . However , even if this were to happen , airliners carry the passengers and crew in the upper half of the fuselage , so nobody would be likely to notice ( from inside the aircraft before emergency evacuation ) .
Standard soft-field landing and take-off techniques work on dirt , gravel or grass . The differences are more in ground operations , and even then they are n't really big differences : it comes down to being aware of what 's around you and what condition the surface is in . That includes taxi and parking areas , not just the runway . With gravel , the main risk is damage to the aircraft ( especially the prop ) or nearby people , vehicles or objects caused by gravel being thrown up by the prop . With dirt , you 're more likely to have to worry about drag or even getting stuck , especially if the surface is wet . Some specific considerations for gravel are : If you 're parked on gravel , be careful where the aircraft is pointed when you start up . You do n't want to spray some unfortunate person , vehicle or building behind you . Re-position the aircraft before starting up if you have to , and you could also brush gravel away from the prop . For the same reason , pick your runup spot carefully Keep back pressure on the controls all the time while taxiing , to keep the prop as far away from the surface as possible . Do n't feel you have to taxi in a straight line : taxi wherever the gravel is lightest and the surface is smoothest . Open the throttle smoothly for takeoff or runups to avoid suddenly throwing up gravel Dry , well-packed dirt usually is n't much of an issue ( apart from visibility ) , but wet dirt - i.e. mud - is potentially tricky : If conditions are very dry then you can throw up a lot of dust . That may not be as dangerous as spraying gravel around , but it 's still unpleasant for anyone nearby and there is a safety risk if people ca n't see you or other aircraft/vehicles because of it . If conditions are wet then there 's a risk of getting stuck in mud . Once you 're moving , try not to stop unless absolutely necessary . Consider doing a ' rolling runup ' if you 're confident you can do it safely ( practice on tarmac first ! ) . Calculate your required takeoff roll carefully and know exactly where you have to abort . Mud will create a lot of drag , and you do n't want to push your luck on what is most likely a short runway . If you take off from wet dirt you 'll leave ruts behind you . When the dirt dries out those will still be there , and they could be a hazard to other aircraft using the runway ( some dirt becomes very hard when it dries ) . Try to find someone who can smooth them out after you depart . If you do get mud on your aircraft , clean it off if at all possible before taking off . As well as decreasing performance , it could clog up pitot-static ports or otherwise affect airworthiness .
No , the gear does n't actively extend , and any passive change to the strut extension during takeoff is likely to be imperceptible . What you are perceiving during takeoff is the <URL> . It is a physiological sensation , not a physical change . Rapid acceleration , as during a takeoff roll , causes the inner ear to report what your brain assumes is your head tilting back . The <URL> sit in fluid and detect the tilt of your head . Acceleration and pitching up ( or tilting back ) cause the exact same movement of the otoliths . Because the otoliths are pushed backwards by the fluid , just like they would by you tilting your head back , it feels like a climb . When an airliner is taking off , you have limited outside references to the horizon and your inner ear takes over the task of orienting you . You might notice it in smaller aircraft if you closed your eyes ; in very small aircraft , the acceleration may be too slow to trigger the illusion .
As a tower controller , in case of an unexpected unusual situation for an aircraft on final approach , this will be my list of priorities : Clear the runway of other traffic Determine if fire and rescue services need to get involved ( Call fire and rescue services ) Call approach and ask them to stop inbound traffic . In case of other traffic on final behind the emergency , coordinate missed approaches Instruct other aircraft on final to go around , in accordance with the coordination with approach The above points will take me no more than 30 seconds to get through . This takes care of the most immediate priorities . I will then await the landing of the emergency plane , and coordinate with fire and rescue as appropriate . As for departing traffic on the ground - aircraft on their gate will be instructed to stay there . Aircraft taxiing to the runway will either continue to the runway holding point or be turned around to a gate , if available - this depends on whether I expect the runway to be closed for a long time ( say , more than 20 minutes ) . The same , more or less , applies to VFR traffic in the control zone intending to land . They can hold in the air if I expect to reopen the runway shortly , otherwise they might have to find an alternate ; I will coordinate any diversions with approach . Once I have a hold of my own traffic , I will call the operational supervisor and inform them of the situation . They will take care of stopping additional inbound traffic if required , and coordinating with adjacent units and sectors . I might also call approach again directly to let them know how the situation is developing . It will be up to approach , in cooperation with the supervisor and based on the information I provide , to determine if aircraft on initial approach should be diverted , or if they can hold in the air awaiting a runway reopening . Each individual aircraft will require individual handling , to determine if , where and how they want to divert . Once the runway is reopened ( after fire and rescue have finished their work , the emergency airplane has been removed , runway inspection carried out and so on ) , I will coordinate with approach and the supervisor to start inbound traffic again ( possibly with a reduced rate ) , and start getting my own departures rolling again . As you can see , there are a lot of " if 's " in the above . A lot of decisions have to be made , and the basis for making said decisions changes depending on the situation . There is no set checklist or rulebook for when something like this happens , because the required actions will vary . But that is what we get paid for after all - as an air traffic controller you have to be creative and flexible , especially when unusual situations occur .
There are two main geometrical characteristics that affect the airflow in the situation mentioned . From one side you have a cylinder with wheels at the end ; on the other side during the transition you have an open cavity . Let 's talk about the first one . You actually have a cylinder flying perpendicular to the air speed . This is kind of canonical problem in fluid dynamics , there is a lot of literature about this problem , but to explain the effect I would like to take a simple example that I took from the website , the infinite 2D cylinder . For that , I include this picture of flow over a cylinder : Note for fluid dynamics experts : This is not relevant if Reynolds Number ( Re ) is around 10,000 , but for understanding the concept is good enough . So , imagine that we are cutting landing gear perpendicular to its length and we visualize the flow . What do we see ? Two main things ... Looking at the flow lines , they are almost not affected at 3-4 diameters of distance from the cylinder perpendicular to the flow direction there is a very local influence of the existence of the landing gear . However we see that down the flow there is a big influence with the creation of chaotic structures . That is creating a big increase in drag downstream of the landing gear and any surface behind . Basically ... low influence on the red direction and significant influence on blue . Answering your question , influences the wing in a local area . The influence anyhow is negative on the lift , as the flow is accelerated locally , reducing the static pressure below the wing , having a lift reduction , but is a local effect . This also have an influence on the wing lift distribution and a small effect on drag ... lower than the one directly produced by the landing gear itself . Now ... the cavities , they have a bigger influence , firstly because they have bigger extension parallel to the airplane surface ( the landing gear goes perpendicular to the airplane the cavity goes along the surface ) . Secondly , their flow behaviour is different , goes in and outside the cavity . I found this <URL> very good on this , but basically the flow behaviour is like these image : I found several flows similar to the second one , but depends on the airplane . You can see that flow will enter and go outside and will have a big influence . Finally , the biggest influence is found when the airplane is deploying or retracting the landing gears when you have changing conditions , difficult to predict and affecting the airplane dynamics . Usually you can notice it when landing or taking off , when landing gear is deployed you fell significant vibration on the airplane . Concerning your questions : How does the landing gear affect aerodynamics when deployed and when deploying ? There is a significant drag increase , slightly the lift , but also creates some unsteady behaviour affecting overall airplane mechanics creating vibrations ( anyhow , nothing not already taken into account ) . Is it different for aircraft whose landing gear do not retract into the wing ? I understand that you refer to airplane with non retractable landing gear . The effect is similar but usually the configuration tries to avoid having the landing gear close to the wing , as finally they do n't need to retract them back . Does this modify performance critical when taking off or landing such as stall speed , optimal climb speed ? Well , stall speed is usually defined by wing lift curve , and not so much affected by the landing gear . Usually the limitation is on the upper side due to separation . Climb speed is basically engine thrust minus drag , the drag increases the climb speed is lower . That 's why airplanes retract the landing gear as soon as possible .
The FAA has issued an <URL> which covers what they call " non-towered airports " NON-TOWERED AIRPORTS When the control tower is closed or if there is no tower , the airport is referred to as non-towered . At a non-towered airport , you do not need controller permission before entering a runway or taxiway . Below are some best practices for operating on a non-towered airport : When you approach the runways and taxiways , STOP , LOOK both ways , and LISTEN for aircraft that are landing or taking off . Vehicle windows should be open to do this properly . Alert others when you are using a taxiway or runway by always making an announcement on the radio before you enter . Be specific with your location and intentions . Always yield the right-of-way to taxiing aircraft and give them plenty of room . If an aircraft is headed toward you on the same taxiway , move out of the aircraft 's way . Always carry a radio tuned to the airport 's Common Traffic Advisory Frequency ( CTAF ) or UNICOM . If an aircraft is about to land on a runway that you need to cross , stop well clear of the runway . Continue to yield to the aircraft until it has landed and taxied off of the runway . Be aware that some aircraft at non-towered airports are not equipped with radios . Before you cross a runway , ensure that no potentially conflicting aircraft are taxiing , landing or taking off . Be aware of aircraft at non-towered airports that frequently make touch-and-go landings ( immediately after landing , full power is applied and the aircraft takes off again ) . If your vehicle has a rotating beacon , be sure to turn it on anytime you are on the airport surface . Turn on headlights as well , being careful not to blind any pilots in the area .
Not a real example , but this comes from the <URL> , including some nice drawings around page 13-20 : The emergency extension system lowers the landing gear if the main power system fails . There are numerous ways in which this is done depending on the size and complexity of the aircraft . Some aircraft have an emergency release handle in the flight deck that is connected through a mechanical linkage to the gear uplocks . When the handle is operated , it releases the uplocks and allows the gear to free-fall to the extended position under the force created by gravity acting upon the gear . Other aircraft use a non-mechanical back-up , such as pneumatic power , to unlatch the gear . The popular small aircraft retraction system ... uses a free-fall valve for emergency gear extension . Activated from the flight deck , when the free-fall valve is opened , hydraulic fluid is allowed to flow from the gear-up side of the actuators to the gear-down side of the actuators , independent of the power pack . Pressure holding the gear up is relieved , and the gear extends due to its weight . Air moving past the gear aids in the extension and helps push the gear into the down-and-locked position . Large and high performance aircraft are equipped with redundant hydraulic systems . This makes emergency extension less common since a different source of hydraulic power can be selected if the gear does not function normally . In some small aircraft , the design configuration makes emergency extension of the gear by gravity and air loads alone impossible or impractical . Force of some kind must therefore be applied . Manual extension systems , wherein the pilot mechanically cranks the gear into position , are common . Consult the aircraft maintenance manual for all emergency landing gear extension system descriptions of operation , performance standards , and emergency extension tests as required .
Assuming that the pilots have tried everything possible and the gear just does not like to come down : The general rule is to find a long runway , touch down as slow as possible . Here are sections extracted from Boeing 777 's Flight Crew Training Manual : Dumping fuel If time and conditions permit , reduce weight as much as possible by burning off or jettisoning fuel to attain the slowest possible touchdown speed . Elevator After touchdown lower the nose gently before losing elevator effectiveness . Rudder At touchdown speed , the rudder has sufficient authority to provide directional control in most configurations . Speedbrakes ( ... ) speedbrakes should be extended only when stopping distance is critical . Extending the speedbrakes ( ... ) may compromise controllability of the airplane . Reverse Thrust ( ... ) an engine making ground contact could suffer sufficient damage such that the reverse mechanism may not operate . Selecting reverse thrust ( ... ) may produce an additional asymmetric condition that makes directional control more difficult . Reverse thrust should be used only when stopping distance is critical . Landing technique The technique varies with the combination of failure . If one side of the main gears is missing , land the plane to the side of runway which corresponds to the extended main gear . I.e. if the left gear is down and right gear is up , land on the left side of the runway instead of centerline . Maintain wings level for as long as possible , and be prepared to brake on the left side to maintain directional control . If all the gears decide to hide in the gears bay , land on centerline and use rudder to maintain directional control . Rudder is effective until airspeed drops too low . After landing Evacuate the aircraft as necessary !
Hmmm , opening the window at 30.000 ft , where the air temperature is about -40 ° C / -40 ° F , air speed is extreme , you ca n't survive without oxygen , and you want to put your arm outside ??? Well , if you really do , you 'll get a sunburn quite fast . I got a sun burn within an hour in an altitude of 3500m / 12000ft , though I was tanned due to two weeks at the beach . The ozone did already absorb a large fraction of the UV-C radiation , but as most of the air mass is already below you , the rest of the sun light will not have been filtered so much . So , let 's close the window . To my knowledge , side windows and canopies are made of some kind of polycarbonate like or Plexiglass . CERN measured the transmission of light through a 2mm sheet of plexigas and came to the result that no light below ~ 350nm , passes this sheet . Depending on source , the UV region starts below 380-400nm . <URL> Source : <URL> Keep in mind that the windows are usually thicker , which makes this step in the diagram much steeper . So , there is n't much UV left which can cause a sun burn , but let 's take the data from <URL> to calculate how much light you get and compare it to the light at ground . I found a function describing the data from CERN quite well , and applied it to the sun spectrum data ( without atmosphere ) twice , to get a Plexiglass window of 4mm thickness . So , this is the worst-case , with no air above the aircraft pre-filtering the sunlight . Here is the result , which shows that sunlight is much more intense , and its color is heavily shifted to blue . But the intensity drops to zero , just where the UV-A range starts . Even , if you put the beginning of the UV-A range to 400nm , the intensity is still lower than at the ground . <URL> Wind shields of larger aircraft are usually a quite thick composite material of glass and some plastics , which should absorb UV the same way as polycarbonate does , if not better . So , I do n't see any evidence that you get more UV light in an aircraft than on ground . However , you should not underestimate cosmic radiation , which is absorbed by our atmosphere quite well on the ground , but not at high altitude . A transatlantic flight is equal to an X-ray photography of your chest . Flying staff is an occupation group exposed to much higher radiation doses than any other group and it 's dose usually is supervised . EDIT : As @PeterK ämpf pointed out , Plexiglass is only one material used , and it is not a polycarbonate , which I did n't notice . But polycarbonates do n't differ much concerning UV transmission , as the following diagram shows . However , I also read that polycarbonates - in contrast to plexiglass - are not UV hard and need an UV blocking coating when used outside . <URL> Source : <URL>
It 's mostly harmless in a nose wheel configuration . You quickly blow all tires and slide along the runway on your wheel hubs until the aircraft comes to a rest . Crosswind will make the experience worse , because at lower speed you have less rudder authority and the aircraft might leave the runway . If only one side is locked you will risk a ground loop . Here it is best to step on the other brake so both cause the same braking force . But this is peanuts when compared to a tailwheel configuration . Here the consequence is a headstand right after you put some load on the wheels , which can be right at touchdown when you come down with some sink speed . Depending on the speed of the aircraft when this happens and the length of the fuselage nose , the aircraft might even flip on its back . Now this is sure to ruin your day . I 've witnessed this once with a Polish <URL> which landed on soft ground - nothing more . The pilot climbed out unhurt from his inverted position , but damage to the aircraft was extensive . This was the occasion when I learned the worst Polish cursing ever . If only one side is locked in case of a taildragger , I am unsure what will happen first : Ground loop or headstand . Details depend on the wheel track and the attitude at touchdown . Be sure to touchdown at the lowest possible speed and with the highest nose-up incidence possible to increase the resistance of the aircraft against flippig over . Unload the locked wheel with ailerons , so you touch down on the working wheel only , but make sure that you do this with as little sideslip angle as possible . Flying a gentle turn while touching down will help - just place the touchdown point at the moment when the aircraft is aligned with the runway ( I know - easier said than done ) . Touching down on one main wheel of a taildragger with some lateral speed by sideslipping into the direction of the working wheel will quickly roll the aircraft into the direction of the lateral speed , which helps to unload the locked wheel but might end up in a three-point landing : One wheel , wingtip and fuselage nose . Again , this is sure to ruin your day . That is what is colloquially called a " headstand " ( Picture <URL> )
The short answer is extensive testing and backup/manual over ride systems . In reality there is not a whole lot that can go wrong , landing gear systems are fairly simple in design . This varies a bit by airframe but most landing gear systems are pretty much the same . Basically every aircraft out there , from a single engine Piper Retract all the way up through a 747 has some form of manual gear over ride system . <URL> So basically if the main system fails ( and it happens ) they have some kind of manual over ride to force the gear down . Granted there can be cases where the manual over ride also does not bring the gear down but you can only be so redundant . Some gear is also held in place positively , in other words there is pressure on the system holding it up so that should the hydrolics fail you dont need the pressure to get the gear down . Often the gear is oriented so that gravity and aerodynamics can deploy it . Fixed gear is generally not a great idea on anything bigger than a small trainer . Fixed gear adds drag at the cost of a simpler airplane . <URL> I dont think lighter gear is something they are looking into to solve the gear deploy issue . Generally speaking you want the gear to fall down in the event of a failure so a little extra weight is not the end of the world .
This can depend on all kinds of things , so it 's hard to give a definitive answer : Many low-cost airlines park at remote stands as this is cheaper than parking at a jet-bridge . Some airports have jet bridges that ca n't handle particular aircraft types ( often large aircraft at small airports ) and therefore these aircraft must park at remote stands . Related to the above , some airports have no customs facilities for jet bridge arrivals ( or vice-versa ) and therefore international flights must be parked at a remote stand and passengers bussed to customs/immigration . Sometimes a flight will be allocated a jet bridge in advance but then suffers from a delayed arrival . By the time it gets to the destination the jet bridge that was assigned to it is taken by another aircraft . In this case , the aircraft may have to be parked at a remote stand . As you say , bad luck can play a role . Airports have a limited number of jet bridges and sometimes there 's just no space for your aircraft . Lastly , in my experience it is particularly common to get a remote stand if you arrive late in the evening : Some airlines like parking remotely in this circumstance as it 's cheaper than parking overnight at a jet bridge . As I said , it 's hard to give a definitive answer but the above are some common causes for being placed at a remote stand .
Looking at the hurricane manuals for a few airports , evacuating flyable aircraft to a safer location tends to be the most common choice . From the <URL> Effective with the issuance of a Storm WARNING and/or Hurricane WARNING : Relocate flyable aircraft to other geographical areas , place under suitable shelter , or secure as appropriate . Also , from the <URL> Upon receipt of a Hurricane Warning , Airside Operations will : Initiate evacuation of all flyable aircraft and post Airfield Operations Senior Agents and Agents in detail to insure compliance and report results .
This is called sequencing . The idea is to distribute the high load on the hydraulic system due to retraction over time , so the hydraulic pumps can be smaller . The linked video shows no such sequencing . The triple redundant hydraulic systems on airliners do not need such optimizations since there is plenty of power if all pumps are running . On top , the video was made in a hangar and the pressure source was most likely external , with enough power reserves . Any asymmetries are most likely due to differences in friction , as Jan remarks in his answer . Since friction losses in the hydraulic lines increase with flow speed , a difference in retraction speed would quickly be equalized , since the faster moving leg needs higher flow speed in the lines leading to and from its actuator , and less pressure would be available for gear operation . Active syncing is not needed , and a small difference has little influence on flight characteristics . After all , the main gear is close to the center of gravity , so drag differences between both legs do not produce big aerodynamic moments . When a gear retracts , it first needs to move out of the locks , which requires little hydraulic power . After this , the load gradually increases the more the leg moves up into the horizontal position . Shortly before moving into the final , retracted position the load is highest ; the details depend on the gearing of the retraction mechanism . If this load needs to be covered for all three gears at the same time , the hydraulic pump on an aircraft with manual controls and hydraulics only for gear operation would need to be more than twice as large as when you sequence the retraction , so the peak loads come one after the other . <URL> <URL> while gear retracts ( picture <URL> ) . Some asymmetry is clearly visible . Technically this is solved with <URL> which serve several circuits . They are used both to time the gear door operation , so the doors open before the gear starts moving , as well as the sequence of the main gears .
It seems I misspoke in my comment in which I gave the moments for 747-400BCF gear retraction . I did n't realize the component weights were further on in the document I referenced . The weights for the BCF are : body gear 6447 lbs ( 2924 kg ) each wing gear 6508 lbs ( 2952 kg ) each nose gear 3157 lbs ( 1432 kg ) However , @Gurkan 's comment is relevant in that you have to decide what all should be considered as part of the gear . So , I put up a PDF of the WEIGHT AND BALANCE CONTROL AND LOADING MANUAL for each of two 747 freighter variants . You can access them at <URL> . The most relevant sections are 1-86-041 and 051 .
end question
start question
Where do airshow pilots practice ?
Aerobatic pilots typically use " aerobatic practice areas " when they practice . Many of the Part 91 rules which would need to be broken in order to practice aerobatics are waived within these aerobatic practice areas ( such as the 1,500 ft. " floor " for normal aerobatics in <URL> ( e ) ) . The FAA has to approve them , and <URL> includes a good description : 4 . AEROBATIC PRACTICE AREAS . Aerobatic competition pilots , airshow pilots , and others who wish to practice aerobatic maneuvers not necessary for normal flight and below an altitude of 1,500 feet above ground level ( AGL ) must use a waivered aerobatic practice area . These areas are not to be considered airshow sites . The aviation community uses these practice areas to establish and maintain proficiency as well as enhance competitive skills in all the recognized aerobatic maneuvers . They are established by the waiver applicant in conjunction with the local FSDO and may have dimensions of several miles in various directions or be as small as a contest box ; i.e. , a cubic box with a dimension of 3,300 feet on all sides . Inspectors should be receptive to the establishment of these areas , consistent with safety and the efficient use of the NAS . It is imperative that the safety of all nonparticipating aircraft be considered when issuing a Certificate of Waiver or Authorization for an aerobatic practice area . An aerobatic practice area may be established over an airport if coordinated with airport management , and can be used to practice landings like those that Bob Hoover does . Besides the special rules in these areas , it is also a good way to warn other traffic that aerobatics could be taking place because they are listed in the A/FD and a NOTAM is issued whenever they are hot .
According to the Washington Post , Air Force One never refueled in mid-air with the president on board . If it needs to refuel , it usually does so at one of the U.S. military bases across the world . The retrofitted Boeing 747 that usually serves as the presidential jet can indeed refuel in flight -- but it has never done so with the president on board , military officials say . It has enough range to fly from Washington to Iraq without needing more fuel . On longer trips to Asia , it typically stops at U.S. military bases in Alaska or Germany . -- <URL>
Chinese superstition . The same reason Airbus went with the 380 number when 350 would have been next in line . The Chinese sign for 8 looks like an up arrow ( 八 ) and 8 is the lucky number in Chinese . Similarly , 4 ( 四 ) is considered unlucky because the word for it ( sì ) sounds similar to the Mandarin word for death ( sĭ ) . Boeing and Airbus management court their prospective Chinese customers wherever they can because they expect their biggest sales in the next decade from that part of the world . Originally , Boeing used three-digit numbers for their subtypes , and the last two digits <URL> . <URL> 's number was 21 , for example , so a Boeing 707-100 made to Pan Am specs was a 707-121 .
Speaking of fighters in their basic role , there are 2 . Interception and escort . A single seat fighter would be superior in both scenarios because the space occupied by the second seater , plus the life support systems double the weight which can be put to fuel , countermeasures or weapons , and the extra weight and space will affect handling in air to air combat . When the role is ground attack , 2 seat versions can be an advantage , such as SAM suppression mission , bombing and other types of strikes . All of the above applies to modern aircraft . Previously , say the 1970s and before , 2 seat fighters were sometimes necessary due to the technology available at that time . The F-4 and F-14 for example , the 2nd seater operated the radar because the pilot really could n't keep his head in the cockpit when engaging multiple enemy contacts or when the fight was close in . Head up displays were n't available so the aircraft systems available to the pilot by necessity was kept limited in order to limit pilot overload .
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
It depends . Some instructions are really simple and with a little practice , are very easy to remember . Other ones will be so common , they are just remembered : But this is where the danger creeps in . It is possible , and has happened , that the crew think they heard something but actually , the instruction was different today . The prudent crew will write it down . <URL> , or boards clipped to the control column on which to write taxi clearances , complex airways clearances and so on . In some large aircraft , many light aircraft and in helicopters , pilots might wear a kneeboard to write instructions on . It is a minor advantage to me that I am left handed and as a helicopter pilot , this means that my kneeboard is on my left leg where I can easily write without taking my hand off the cyclic and having it right next to the collective . <URL> Most instructions come in the same order , every flight . For example , here is a simplified list . This happens every time so the crew know what 's coming next , what it will likely contain , and how to respond : Clearance for the flight plan . Permission to start and push back . Taxi instructions . Departure instructions . Take off clearance . Hand-off from departure controller to area controller . etc etc. . Note that any instruction which will cause the aircraft to change it 's configuration or location must be repeated . The controller then also gets to check they 've got it right . This includes things like speed , direction or altitude changes , taxi and departure instructions , frequency and squawk changes etc. . There are also some words which are only ever used at certain times , e.g. " takeoff " is only ever said when an aircraft is cleared to take off . For example , " ready for departure " tells the controller that the aircraft is prepared to take off immediately . The crew should not say " ready for takeoff " . You can sometimes hear a pilot receiving a long instruction , start to read it back , pause , then ask for a repeat . Very frustrating when you are sitting there waiting to get your request in . You just know they thought they could remember it , but did n't . Write it down if it 's anything except a simple instruction or clearance . Here 's an example of a complex one . SuperAir 123 , cleared to Barcelona via vector departure , fly runway track , climb altitude 5000ft , after passing 2000ft turn right direct Hamm VOR , route as filed , squawk 1234 , information Alpha current , startup approved The crew might write it down like this . Each pilot develops their own preferred shorthand : VD RWY TRK 5000 / 2000 + RT HMM / SQ1234 ALPHA / SU Very brief since they know what each part is and the order they come in . Since it contains instructions , the crew will then read it back . Cleared Barcelona via vector departure , runway track 5000ft , after passing 2000ft right direct Hamm , squawk 1234 , Alpha on-board , startup approved . SuperAir 123 . Finally , a good reason to write stuff down is because sometimes ( and we 've all been there ) , you think you remember , then turn round to your co-pilot 2 minutes later and ask " what was that altitude ? " . Here 's a great <URL> and an approach to writing down clearances .
Can a sextant be used while flying ? Yes it can . Some aircraft like 747 for example had a sextant port to allow celestial navigation . How accurate/reliable is a sextant , both standing still and at 500 + mph ? Sextant is not accurate . At least not accurate enough for today 's navigation purposes . You can not perform a RNP-RNAV approach with a sextant . Per wikipedia , the best accuracy you can get with a sextant is between a tenth to a quarter of nautical mile . But it is a very good alternative if everything else fails . Are sextants found in any cockpits today ? As for sextants in modern cockpits , my best guess is you wo n't find any , at least in the form of one " left in a drawer " . See that image of a sextant being operated on a VC-10 . It 's more like a submarine periscope than a traditional naval sextant . <URL> Retrieved from <URL> unknown copyright owner . Finally , as KRyan notes and as voretaq7 wrote <URL> , pilots do n't need to know , but they can attend training in order to know .
There 's no instrument you need for a good approach angle in good weather , it 's all done by eye . When you train as a pilot you develop a sight picture of what a good approach looks like , and you develop a sense of what a runway looks like when you get too low or too high . It comes from experience and practice combining with the human brain 's excellent spatial processing capabilities .
The crew of <URL> ( 4 in total ) enter or exit the cockpit from the underside , using a ladder . It can be seen in <URL> . This picture shows the ladder ( the one on the right ) : <URL> On the top of the ladder , there is a door , which looks like this : <URL>
In personal experience , I often look for a step ladder to inspect ground inaccessible engines and control surfaces and I have seen others look at their aircraft from a second story window . My personal practice is to walk around the aircraft prior to every flight , not just at the first flight of the day , but I often had to make time for that . It may not be common practice . But that is an aside . Here 's the reality . If you are talking about the walk-around that the pilot or flight engineer might do , there are not up close inspections of the elevated engines and control surfaces . The walk-around will look for leaking oil , missing $ 1500 fasteners or whatever , but one is not checking the dipstick prior to engine start . How are things inspected ? The manufacturer factors that into the design . From an operational standpoint , the pilot ( s ) , FE will look at performance during engine start , and make sure that the profile does not deviate from the expected temps , flow , etc. . In summary , if you ca n't get to it , it is not likely on the walk-around checklist .
I typically like to get VFR flight following if I have n't filed a flight plan for longer distance flights . The biggest advantage here is that somebody knows where I am if something should happen . I do n't typically find the chatter too bad , but you do have to be on the ball , especially when handed off from a local airport to an <URL> ( commonly referred to as just " Center " ) frequency . Often on flights out of my airport ( <URL> ) I will get handed off to <URL> , which is relatively busy frequency . Another nice thing is that it gives you some practice talking in busy airspace . You really have to follow the rules and jump in when able . Sometimes they wo n't hear you because you are transmitting over other aircraft that you ca n't hear , so the frequency will appear open . It 'll sound like they are talking to themselves . So here is how I see it : Pros You are talking to somebody and working with other traffic in the airspace You are on a frequency you can broadcast an emergency to . Yes we all know about 121.5 , but you are not guaranteed to get somebody on the other end . ATC knows where you are , and if you fall off the radar and do n't respond , they will initiate a search . If you just file a VFR flight plan they wo n't even start until 30 minutes after your planned arrival , and then they start calling airports and contact numbers , then start a search . They may not know where you fell off your flight plan so the search area is much bigger . They can help route you around active MOAs , TFRs , and other airspace/weather issues that do n't show up well on paper maps . Traffic advisories ( as others pointed out ) Can provide a vector to where you want if you get lost . Do n't need to open a flight plan if you can get following all the way . Good radio practice Cons Flight following is " workload permitting . " They may call up and say at any time , turning your flight back into normal VFR . If you did n't file a flight plan , now you should call up FSS and open one en route , which is more difficult . Requires you to be on-the-ball with your radio transmissions on busier frequencies . If you frequently fly from uncontrolled airspace , this can be intimidating . You may get vectored around a bit , but I usually do n't have that problem . I 've typically contacted the destination airport by 20 miles out and either got clearance or vectors anyway .
pilots need to be able to do work during turbulence . passengers do n't really like to be fully restrained .
On the first flight of the day , after every refueling , and if you have flown through precipitation or the plane is left in the rain , you check the fuel for water and to make sure you have the right kind of fuel . Since water is heavier than fuel , if there is just a little bit of water in the fuel it could cause the engine to stop . You ca n't pull over to the side of the road like you can in a car , so you need to immediately deal with the problem . The most likely place for this to occur is on takeoff . If you think fast and switch tanks , you might get lucky and only have water in one tank so you can continue your takeoff . If not , you may need to find a place to land . In 17 years of flying , I have only found water in the fuel once , and it was n't even my airplane . But since it was on Catalina Island , a stopped engine would not have been pretty . The other reason to check the fuel is that airplanes designed for 100LL do not burn Jet Fuel . Jet fuel is denser than 100LL so it will sink to the bottom of the tank . It is straw colored and somewhat greasy so you can tell if you plane has accidentally been filled with it , but you really have to be paying attention . It would be easy to miss if you just topped off . There have been incidents when twin-engine planes have mistakenly been filled with Jet A and have either crashed or had expensive fuel system cleaning required . In this article , <URL> describes his experiences . After the <URL> of a Cessna 421s someone did a <URL> to see how easy it is to identify a combination of Jet A and Avgas . It 's fairly hard using standard pre-flight practices . That 's why many people recommend watching the fuel truck if you have a twin-engine plane or one that prominently says " Turbo " on the side . Many aircraft have rubber bladders to hold the fuel . Most older Cessnas have them . Water can get trapped in the folds of the bladder and get into the engine later when the fuel is sloshed around . Even if the fuel source is free of water , a tank that is not full can have water condense in it . Most autogas has some ethanol in it . Water will dissolve in a gas-ethanol mixture and so a slug of water wo n't get into the engine like it will in an aircraft engine . Contamination is less of an issue and is one that is really hard for a GA pilot to determine . You really ca n't tell if the fuel is contaminated with other petroleum products just by looking at it .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
For US ( N-reg aircraft ) , this is defined in <URL> , Operations of civil aircraft of U.S. registry outside of the United States . It says : ( a ) Each person operating a civil aircraft of U.S. registry outside of the United States shall -- ( 1 ) When over the high seas , comply with annex 2 ( Rules of the Air ) to the Convention on International Civil Aviation and with § § 91.117 ( c ) , 91.127 , 91.129 , and 91.131 ; ( 2 ) When within a foreign country , comply with the regulations relating to the flight and maneuver of aircraft there in force ; ( 3 ) Except for § § 91.117 ( a ) , 91.307 ( b ) , 91.309 , 91.323 , and 91.711 , comply with this part so far as it is not inconsistent with applicable regulations of the foreign country where the aircraft is operated or annex 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation ; [ ... ] That suggests that in most cases the pilot should follow the foreign ( Italian ) regulations : 91.703 ( a ) ( 2 ) says you have to follow foreign regulations on " flight and maneuver " 703 ( a ) ( 3 ) says you should ( mostly ) follow part 91 unless it 's " inconsistent " with the foreign regulations It all seems a bit vague to me , and what " inconsistent " means is probably the kind of thing that keeps lawyers busy . But also note that there are specific rules applying to operating foreign aircraft in the US . <URL> , Special rules for foreign civil aircraft , begins : ( a ) General . In addition to the other applicable regulations of this part , each person operating a foreign civil aircraft within the United States shall comply with this section . So foreign aircraft in the US are expected to follow US regulations as far as possible , which is consistent with 91.703 : an N-reg aircraft abroad follows the foreign rules as far as possible , and a foreign aircraft in the US follows US rules as far as possible . Since both the US and Italy are <URL> , I would expect Italian law to roughly mirror US law on this , although that may be a dangerous assumption . For an authoritative answer , I would ask both the FAA and the <URL> .
Once you 've lined up nicely on the runway , you only need the rudder pedals as they do provide enough nose gear steering for the takeoff roll even at low speed . Rudder pedal steering is available during takeoff , landing , and taxiing when small directional changes are required . Full deflection of the rudder pedals produces about 7 degrees of nose wheel steering . -- <URL> The 7 degrees figure quoted above will vary by plane . Tiller is used when tight turns are needed . Remember most airliners do n't have a tiller on the first officer 's side , yet they do takeoff without the captain steering for them . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the linked video we see the captain let go of the tiller as soon as he is lined up on the runway . Also notice the tiller move on its own afterward , which indicates that the rudder pedal [ nose wheel ] steering is being used .
As late as possible to still meet your company 's specific stabilized approach guidelines ( mine were 500 ft VMC , 1000 ft IMC ) . If you need the drag , then use them earlier . In the EMB-145 in still wind or a headwind you could cross the FAF at 250 kts and clean and be on speed and configured by 1000 ' if you dropped the gear at the FAF ( and opened the speed brakes and the first notch of flaps all at once ) . Normally though , I 'd drop the gear around 1000 ' . Acronyms : VMC = visual meteorological conditions IMC = instrument meteorological conditions FAF = final approach fix EMB-145 is the type designator for the Embraer 145 regional jet
A quick look at the <URL> makes it sound like , in the USA , they can enter any sort of airspace provided they can do it safely . So , theoretically , they could file a flight plan or at least alert local ATC to their activities . All of that being said , having been involved in hot air balloon operations before , I think it would not be terribly feasible . Firstly , flying a hot air balloon outside of Visual Flight Rule conditions ( being able to see several miles ) would be extremely dangerous , so you would n't need to file a flight plan for that . Secondly , you generally only want to fly a hot air balloon in very sparsely populated areas ( Class G airspace ) , and while you could have a flight plan there really is n't a need . A more congested area ( Class B or Class A ) would be extremely dangerous to navigate in a hot air balloon . It 's pretty hard to get out of the way , since controlling where you are going is ... iffy sometimes . So , in summary , yes it could be done , but in the vast majority of cases there 's little need to do it . Other than to just alert local ATC that you will be in the area .
Air forces use special training rigs rather than real ejection seats . <URL> Plenty of pilots have survived ejection ( Wikipedia says " As of 20 June 2011 ... the number of lives saved by Martin-Baker products was 7,402 from 93 air forces " ) The types of injury are illustrated by <URL> The ejection seat has been responsible for saving the lives of thousands of pilots around the world since its introduction in the late 1940s . Typical survival rates quoted in the literature vary from 80 -- 97 % . It is generally accepted that radiographic evidence of vertebral fracture can be found in 30 % -- 70 % of aircrew after ejection The reason real ejection seats are not used is almost certainly the high risk of injury . Ejecting clear from a high speed jet requires a lot of acceleration .
The ceiling is the lowest altitude where clouds cover more than half of the sky . This is important because climbing above that altitude means you will most likely have to fly through clouds . <URL> and pilots are required to have special training to fly in low visibility . If the ceiling is too low , pilots ca n't be at a safe altitude above the ground and out of the clouds at the same time . Low ceilings are also critical for landing , and may require pilots to make an <URL> . <URL> refers to UTC time , which is the universal coordinated time . Zulu or UTC time is helpful as a worldwide reference in fields like aviation , to avoid issues like dealing with changing between local time zones . The ATIS will contain the Zulu time that it was updated so pilots know how recent the information is . The dew point in relation to the temperature gives the pilots information about the humidity , and can affect visibility . If the dew point is close to the temperature , humidity is high , which can cause hazy conditions , or even fog . As with the ceiling , this can warn pilots of possible changes in conditions that will make it harder to see the ground or other aircraft while in flight . In terms of aircraft performance , the dew point is also needed to determine the true <URL> , when <URL> . A high dew point means a higher density altitude , which reduces aircraft performance . Dew point is also very important in certain helicopters with carburetors , like the Robinson R-22 and R-44 helicopters , which are subject to carb icing even during take-off because they only use as-required power rather than full throttle . In this case , carb heat needs to be applied whenever the temp/dew point spread is 15C or less . Here is the citation from the <URL> : <URL>
end question
start question
Does being out of trim affect drag ?
Normally not ; details depend on the control system and by how much the aircraft is out of trim . The force produced by the empennage will be the same in the trimmed state and when out of trim , only the control forces are different . Let 's examine the different possibilities : Adjustable spring ( as used on some light aircraft and gliders ) : The elevator deflection will be identical to the trim position , so there is no difference at all . Trim or servo tab on the elevator : The tab deflection will be different , but the elevator position will be practically identical . For tab angles of less than 10 ° relative to the elevator there should not be any difference in drag . Adjustable stabilizer : Now the elevator deflection will be different , and depending on the trimmed state the deflection angle might cause higher airfoil drag . If the elevator deflection relative to the stabilizer is more than 10 ° , a slight drag increase can be expected . If the power consumption of the autopilot is higher in the out of trim case , this might cause higher generator loads and more engine power is needed to keep it powered . But this effect should be very small .
I read once that Mach speed decreases as altitude increases . The speed of sound is solely dependant on temperature . $ $ M = \ sqrt { \ gamma RT } $ $ where $ \ gamma $ is the ratio of specific heats , $ R$ is the molar gas constant and $ T$ is the temprature in Kelvin . For Earth 's athmosphere at 15 ° Celsius , $ $ M = \ sqrt { 1.4 \ times 287 \ times 288.15 } = 340 \ , \ text { m } / \ text { s } $ $ Does temprature decrease with altitude ? Well , not always as can be seen by the international standard atmosphere : <URL> ... are the pressure waves made at high altitude lesser than the ones at low altitude because of the difference in air pressure ? There is no simple answer to this . <URL> 's NASA 's opinion : Altitude determines the distance shock waves travel before reaching the ground , and this has the most significant effect on intensity . As the shock cone gets wider , and it moves outward and downward , its strength is reduced . Generally , the higher the aircraft , the greater the distance the shock wave must travel , reducing the intensity of the sonic boom . Of all the factors influencing sonic booms , increasing altitude is the most effective method of reducing sonic boom intensity .
<URL> ( <URL> ) The basics Height : absolute height above ground , measured using a radar altimeter ( like the helicopter on the right ) QFE : the barometric setting an airport broadcasts that makes an altimeter on ground read zero . This gives height only around the airport if the area is relatively flat . Also known as Above Field Elevation QNH : the barometric setting an airport broadcasts that makes an altimeter on ground read the airport 's elevation ( height above mean sea level ) Aircraft using the same QNH below the transition level * in the same area are all flying the same indicated altitudes Aircraft using QNH 1013 mb ( 29.92 inHg ) are all flying the same pressure altitudes . Above the transition altitude * they 're called flight levels * The <URL> vary from place to place . For flying below 18,000 feet in the US , you can ignore flight levels for now . QNH is good for separation since everyone is using the same measurement system . Even if the temperature 's rate of change with altitude ( lapse rate ) is different from the standard . Lapse rate <URL> ( <URL> ) On the left is a hotter than usual lapse rate , i.e. , it gets colder less slowly . Still , all aircraft using the same pressure setting will still be flying the same indicated altitudes / flight levels . Pressure altitude ( what the altimeter reads when set to 1013/29 .92 ) adjusted for lapse rate deviation is density altitude . It 's used for performance calculations . The answer You said , " [ The ] atmosphere actually expands and becomes taller under hot conditions " . Yes , but not for that reason . A hotter than standard day means the air molecules are more jumpy , i.e. , they are producing more pressure . That 's why 1,000 feet on the left is higher . Think of it this way , air is hot , it 's still keeping pressure a bit higher ( height ) . Remember , a basic altimeter senses only pressure from the static port , it does n't know the temperature . Since the pressure is the same for the same altitudes , and the variable is the temperature , it will be lower air density on the left due to the higher temperature ( angry molecules do n't like to cozy up ) . That 's why engine output and lift are impacted . For cold weather , usually at or below 0 ° C ( 32 ° F ) , this deviation can become dangerous in mountainous areas . There are special rules and equipment for that , which are listed on the appropriate charts for airports that usually face such conditions . Further reading : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
For my answer I 'm going to assume that someone is genuinely trying to shoot you down for some reason , it 's not some sort of legal intercept . If you ignore a legal intercept then I can see a warning shot being fired to get your attention , in which case I would tell ATC I 've been intercepted and get on guard ( 121.5 ) and communicate with them and follow their instructions , evasive maneuvering in this case is a bad idea . I 'm also assuming that no missiles are involved because if you are against a missile equipped enemy in a PA-28 the missile 's going to win . It may be called a Warrior but let 's face it , it ai n't . In the incredibly unlikely event that someone is trying to kill you without warning then communication with the ground would be my last priority in the situation you describe because ATC can not help you and you do n't have time to explain it to them anyway . If you have a one-button squawk emergency button by all means hit it , but first and foremost you need to keep positive control on the airplane . If you exceed your critical AOA and end up in a spin you are in a worse emergency and if you rip the wings off you are dead . If it is at night then turning off your lights would be a smart idea , this wo n't help if the fire is radar guided but it will if the fire is visual . If there 's a cloud very close by going into it is probably a great idea . Next you need to determine whether the fire is air or ground based . If it 's ground based you will know because the tracers will be going from below you to above you ( hopefully not through you ) then your best bet is to throttle up and clear the area as quickly as you can by staying on the same track so you get away from the guns . Diving will increase your airspeed allowing you to clear the area faster but keep it below the vne ! Some small left/right turns may help to throw of the aim of the guns , but large turns will only serve to keep you close to the guns for longer . If there 's terrain nearby which you can put between you and the guns then use it . If the fire is air based then the tracers will be closer to the horizontal . If you are being shot at from another aircraft then flying in a straight line is likely the worst possible idea , you need to maneuver . If your airplane is faster than theirs then dive and outrun them , but chances are you are n't going to be able to do that , so personally I would corkscrew down and cling to the nap of the earth . Use your short turning radius to its best effect and do n't fly a predictable path . Ideally I would use terrain and/or clouds to try and break visual contact so I can escape . If you can spare a few cycles in all this you should make a mayday call to ATC and tell them you 're being shot at , and whether it is another aircraft or someone on the ground . Say your intentions , your aircraft condition , and the number of people on board . This is n't likely to immediately help you , but it may help to keep someone else from flying into the same situation if there 's a nutcase on the loose with an anti-aircraft gun or someone 's strapped a 50 cal to their SR-22 and is playing red baron with passing aircraft . If you 're lucky local law enforcement or the military may be able to scramble something fast and take the heat off you , but most likely it 's all over by the time they get there .
Good question . Another name for the " position of the Zenith " would be the gravity vector . Which for an aircraft is <URL> ( shortest distance to reunite with terra firma ) . Note that it is necessary to subtract acceleration due to gravity from the vertical channel before performing the integration . -- <URL> So the answer is yes , the acceleration due to the gravity vector is corrected . Check the PDF for a detailed description and equations .
Why ca n't they jump from it when the plane almost reaches the ground ? They would have higher chances of surviving , right ? Wrong . Remember your body still has roughly the same momentum it did when it was in the vehicle - just because you jumped out does n't mean you 're not still moving forward at a rate of speed the human body simply is n't designed for . Let 's reframe your question : If you were in a car doing 60 miles per hour and you knew the car was about to crash into a brick wall , would you jump from the vehicle , or would you remain strapped into your seat where the car , seat , seatbelt , and airbag will all help absorb the impact ? As with a car , being inside an aircraft and properly restrained will afford you substantial protection from the initial impact , and some of the crash energy will be absorbed damaging the aircraft . That increases the length of time it takes to decelerate your body and gives you a better chance of survival . If you jumped out of your friend 's Cessna because it 's going down and might hit some trees your unrestrained body would be decelerated far more abruptly when you hit the trees ( or the ground ) . You might survive , but you 've lessened your chances considerably ( and the Cessna is a best-case scenario - your forward speed would be around 60mph as in the car example . For something like a 747 you 'd be in the 150 mile-per-hour range or faster when you jumped out , which is almost certainly not survivable ) .
While Peter Kämpf already commented the effects I 'll take a look at the numbers . Do n't expect this calculations to be exact predictions , rather worst cases to know the magnitude of following effects : Mass increase due to rain drops Forces due to drops hitting the wing Early tripping of the boundary layer After deducing some equations I 'll feed them with the data of two different airplanes . Mass increase due to rain drops The dew layer you find on your airplane in the morning can reach a <URL> of 0.8 mm . Raindrops , which do not fill the complete wing surface , do n't usually exceed 2 mm diameter.Therefore taking an average distributed height of $ h_W = 1mm $ for the water on the wing should be still a worst-case prediction . $ $ m _ { Drops } = \ rho _ { W } \ cdot A \ cdot h_W $ $ $ A$ is the projected area of the aircraft on the horizontal plane and $ \ rho_W $ water density . Forces due to drops hitting the wing Normal <URL> are about 5 mm/hour and we already speak about violent rain with precipitation rates beyond 50 mm/hour . But let us take the <URL> ever measured : $ I_R = 38mm/min $ . Drops fall normally with $ v _ { Drop } = 10m/s $ . To simplify the calculation I 'll assume vertical rain and that once a drop hits the airplane it sticks to it . In reality you do n't accelerate every drop to the airplane speed nor slow its vertical speed down to 0 . i ) Drag increase $ $ \ Delta D = \ rho _ { W } \ cdot I_R \ cdot A \ cdot v _ { airplane } $ $ ii ) Lift decrease $ $ \ Delta L = \ rho _ { W } \ cdot I_R \ cdot A \ cdot v _ { Drop } $ $ To calculate the total drag ( $ D = C_D \ cdot \ frac { \ rho _ { Air } } { 2 } V ^ 2 \ cdot A$ ) I 've used $ C_D = 0.035 $ . $ V$ is the cruise speed of the aircraft . Early tripping of the boundary layer While it 's possible to find airfoil polars in rain searching the Internet , I 'll first look at a " bugs influence " diagram where you can see the effect of small disturbances at the nose without other effects overlayed . Bugs and raindrops are similar in size , therefore the comparison should be valid . <URL> <URL> The polar above shows how the drag can double ( 100 % increase ) just because of some small disturbances at the leading edge . Keep in mind that in modern profiles the effect will probably be smaller . The next polar is from a transport aircraft airfoil . <URL> <URL> While not so important as in the glider airfoil , the drag coefficient increase ( experimental results ) is everywhere at least a two-digit percentage . Airplanes I 've taken two airplanes with really different wing loadings : A1 would be something between the two Solar Impulse models and A2 a single engine four-seater like a Cessna 172 . The last three rows give the drag , lift and mass difference as described above as a percentage of its total value . SUMMARY For a normal GA airplane the water mass on the wings and the lift decrease influence due to raindrops hitting the wing even considering the worst possible conditions are low single digit percentages . While drag increase due to drops hitting the wing is relevant in the extreme case I took here , under normal conditions it should be below single digit percentages too . On the other hand the drag increase due to the early tripping of the boundary layer is at least a two digit percentage , at high lift coefficients even more . Airplanes with lower wing loading are more affected with rain precipitation .
Indeed , the aspect ratio is defined as you describe . It is a way to define how slender the wing is for a given wing area , which is the main parameter in determining how to generate enough lift to keep the aircraft aloft . An area is two-dimensional , and a broadly rectangular shape like a wing area is defined by the length and the breadth of it : span and chord . Aspect ratio describes the proportions of span and chord : a short stubby wing , or a long and slender one ? This is one of the main parameters in how much drag the wing creates : a long slender wing minimises one particular form of aerodynamic drag , called induced drag . <URL> <URL> But a wing is a cantilever beam , subjected to aerodynamic lift . The lift forces bend the wing upwards , and the wing structure must produce internal forces that cancel out the aerodynamic lift . In a hollow cantilever beam like a wing , the skin mainly does that : the upper skin resists compression , and the lower skin resists tension . The further away the upper and lower skin are , the lower the stresses . A structural engineer wants to give as much distance between the plates as possible : he wants the wing to be very thick , in order for it to be light in weight . But again aerodynamics puts a limit to this : a very thick wing would create too much form drag , so the structures people are given the maximum distance that the aerodynamics can support . Wing thickness affects aspect ratio in defining the maximum AR that can be achieved . The wing thickness is not part of the induced drag , and does not appear in the definition of the aspect ratio . It is an important defining parameter in wing weight and other forms of drag .
Induction ice can be a problem for jet engines . Other answers have explained how the ice forms . The air expands and cools in the inlet before entering the engine . The first stages of the compressor do not compress the air enough yet to warm it enough to prevent ice from forming . Low power settings can also make it easier for ice to form . Certain atmospheric conditions make ice more likely to form . The FAA released <URL> , which " provides guidance and acceptable methods , but not the only methods , for demonstrating compliance with the applicable engine induction system icing and engine ice ingestion requirements . " This describes different types of icing , and the effects it can have on engines . It also describes how engines should be tested to conform to the regulations for these conditions . Ice can form in various places : The fan or compressor blades themselves Vanes Sensors Bleed ducts This ice can cause various problems : The ice can come off and damage engine components downstream The ice will reduce the effectiveness of blades , making it harder for the engine to compress the air The ice can impede the flow of air in the engine The ice can block sensors , preventing the control system from correctly monitoring the engine , which can lead to power loss or instability One form of icing that has been an issue lately is ice crystal icing . This is caused by small ice crystals in the upper atmosphere , particularly above convective clouds . <URL> . This type of icing does not appear on radar due to its low reflectivity , and neither the airplane ice detector nor visual indications reliably indicate the presence of icing conditions . Therefore , it is often undetected by the flight crew . Flight in these conditions can cause ice crystals to accumulate in the core gas flow path of the engine . There were previous events on GE CF6-80 engines ( used on 747 , 767 , A310 , A330 , and others ) that the FAA looked into . In the events leading to those prior ADs , the ice has shed during throttle transients and in the descent phase of flight , causing temporary thrust loss . However , there have been <URL> which have been more serious . The new events that prompted this AD , however , have occurred during the cruise phase of flight and caused permanent damage ( beyond maintenance manual limits ) to the engine compressor . In all thrust loss events , data indicate that ice crystals entered and collected in the initial stages of the compressor . Engine temperature data indicate small ice accretions were shed through the core of the engine . The engine manufacturers are working to resolve the issues on the aircraft currently affected , and in the meantime <URL> to avoid weather conditions where ice crystals tend to form . More definitively , the AD includes immediate mitigating procedures for the affected aircraft which prohibit flight within 50nm of amber and red radar returns that are displayed below the aircraft 's flight path during operations at or above 30,000 ft , when approaching , or in , IMC or visible moisture . Note : Boeing has also published an updated Flight Crew Operations Manual Bulletin with specific operating procedures for flight crews .
Low volume , high liability , and the overhead of certification all contribute to the high price of factory-new aircraft . Certification The process to design , build , and test an aircraft to receive a type certificate from the FAA adds time and cost to any new clean-sheet design ( substantially more cost if the design is novel in some way ) . The design and construction techniques must conform to the requirements in the FARs , and you have to demonstrate conformance to FAA inspectors ( who will also want to see you assemble a few planes under their oversight before issuing you a production certificate to go ahead and make them on your own ) . Volume 50 + year old designs like the Piper PA-28 and Cessna 172 that are still in production on an approved type certificate avoid that cost , but are still a low-volume high-touch product : <URL> . Because of the relatively low demand ( and thus low sales volume ) the cost of the skilled personnel to build aircraft is n't spread out the way it is with cars ( and the investment in large-scale low-touch automation is n't economically feasible ) . That drives up the manufacturing cost , and the price goes up with it to ensure the manufacturer is still making a profit . Similar economies of scale affect all the third-party parts going into new planes as well : radios , instruments , lights , etc. that conform to applicable FAA Technical Standard Orders ( TSOs ) are rather expensive . Liability Finally , any new aircraft starts a new 18-year liability period for the manufacturer . Any accident that results in whole or in part from manufacturer errors , omissions , or negligence in a new aircraft can come back to haunt that manufacturer in the form of a lawsuit , so the cost of product liability insurance is baked into the price of every new aircraft . ( After 18 years the manufacturer is off the hook thanks to the <URL> . ) All of these factors take the Searey from being a \ $ 50,000 kit ( airframe , engine , and propeller ) to a \ $ 150,000 factory-built Light Sport aircraft , and that is putting it on the market as a Light Sport aircraft under " consensus industry standards " . Producing it as a Part 23 certificated aircraft would add the additional cost and requirements of FAA certification . ( I 'm using the Searey as a convenient example since you mentioned it in your question and I could find kit and factory-built pricing easily , but other light sport aircraft available in both kit and factory models seem to stack up similarly . I do n't know of any that have been subsequently " upgraded " to a Part 23 aircraft : Only a few manufacturers have successfully launched that sort of product , and those command rather substantial prices on the new market . )
In the examples cited , there is a slight increase in Density Altitude ( DENALT ) , which results in a slightly higher TAS . As the air becomes thinner , fewer molecules pass by the aircraft per mile , resulting in a lightly less loss due to drag . Increased temperature does not have the same range of change as altitude , however , it is nonetheless a higher DENALT , which is thinner air . As an aside , in practice , you will note that the throttle becomes wider open with less dense air , until it is fully open . ( Note that RPM is not the primary measure of power , rather fuel burn is . RPMs will become higher at higher DENALT for the same power . ) At that point there will be no more available power , and any increase in temperature or altitude can not be compensated for by increasing the throttle setting . You will also note that less energy is expended per mile at higher DENALT , not factoring in the cost of a climb to that altitude . Finally , a different practical example of this : When flying in icing conditions , conditions ( and the POH ) may call for continuous carburetor heat at altitude . When this is done , the engine should be releaned , as the DENALT will be higher , and if uncompensated for , will result in a rich mixture which could foul spark plugs .
The philosophy employed on the Stanford site is to convert the product of drag coefficient and corresponding surface area to a " drag area " , which is technically the area of a body with a drag coefficient of 1 . See page 1-8 in <URL> for the definition and tons of helpful real-world data on drag . To convert this into a drag force , it still needs to be multiplied with the dynamic pressure , which is the product of the square of the velocity , the air density and the factor 0.5 . No further inclusion of the surface area is needed , as this is already factored into the drag area values of each drag component . Using the drag coefficient lets you compare the relative dragginess of drag components ( friction drag , pressure drag , ... ) . If you want to compare the dragginess of aircraft components ( wing , fuselage , tail surfaces , ... ) , using their drag area adds a factor for their size , making it easier to compare the relative influence of the drag of different aircraft components on total drag . To answer your second question : Planform area is the wing area you see in the top view of an aircraft , and the wetted area is the actual area which is exposed to airflow . If you start with the planform area , you need first to subtract the part of the wing which is inside the fuselage . Next , you double the result to account for both sides , top and bottom , and then you divide this sum by the cosine of the dihedral angle and the cosine of the incidence angle to arrive at your wetted area .
General Each person leaving the country must be authorized to return to the US . ( ie . they are a US citizen or their visa allows them to leave and return to the US . ) Ensure that you have all required paperwork Pilot license Medical Aircraft Registration The aircraft must have a current <URL> . Ensure that the aircraft is properly equipped 12 " Registration Numbers Transponder Before Leaving the US File eAPIS <URL> is required to be filed at least 60 minutes prior to your departure . Other third party services ( ie . <URL> , etc. ) may make this easier if you do it a lot . File an international flight plan May be an instrument or a defence VFR flight plan Before Returning to the US File eAPIS ( see above ) File a flight plan ( see above ) Notify customs and obtain permission at least one hour prior to landing in the US . Record the initials of the customs officer that you spoke to just in case they misplace your notification . Note that if you are coming from locations " south of the US " ( for the specific definition , see <URL> ) , you must stop at the <URL> closest to your point of border crossing to clear customs ( unless you have an overflight permit ) . Upon Arrival in the US You must land at an <URL> . Report immediately to the designated customs location Do not allow anybody or anything to leave/enter the aircraft until the customs official gives your permission The only exception that I know of to this are the South Florida airports where you are expected to take all people and belongings into the customs facility for inspection . Discard any international garbage in the approved manner . Provide required paperwork A <URL> for each arriving family Wait for customs to specifically tell you that you are cleared before you attempt to leave . Notes This is not all-encompassing , please help add to and expand this list so that others may learn from our experience ! A TON of useful information is made available by the FAA in the <URL> .
Aspect ratio $ AR$ can be written as $ \ frac { b } { c } $ which is equal to $ \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ . Before we start substituting , note that $ C_L $ also depends on the wing surface area $ S$ . $ L = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 C_L S$ or $ C_L = \ frac { L } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S } $ Substituting all this in the induced drag formula yields : $ D_i = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S \ frac { C_L ^ 2 } { \ pi AR \ epsilon } = \ frac { L ^ 2 } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S \ pi AR \ epsilon } = \ frac { L ^ 2 } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 \ pi b ^ 2 \ epsilon } $ This shows that the induced drag is proportional to the inverse of the square of the wingspan .
Disclaimer : I borrowed most of this answer from <URL> , but since you did not find it , I reproduce it here . If you found it but is was incomprehensible , please let me know and I try to improve it . Wind just carries the aircraft with it . For the aircraft , everything feels the same , just the ground passes by at the sum of wind and airspeed . The tricky part of the question is about the best airspeed for maximum range with wind . Best range means you cover the most distance while the wind is carrying the plane with it . If you have a headwind , the longer you stay aloft , the more you are carried back , so you better hurry up . With a tailwind , it helps to slow down because now the wind is helping you to cover even more distance . Graphical solution But how much ? We need to pick that particular speed where the change in fuel consumption just balances the change in speed over ground . I always found that easier to explain with gliders , and there you can really observe which polar point is best . Just picture yourself as an observer on the ground who sees the plane fly by in the distance . If you plot a line with the combination of positions and altitude , there must be one flight speed that produces a line where the flight path angle is the shallowest . This is the desired optimum . That has only little to do with optimum L/D - this is just one other point you can find with a sink speed polar . And it happens to be the point for best glide in still air . But there is so much more that humble polar will tell you , if you look at it the right way . With powered aircraft you need to pick the polar point where your fuel flow is lowest for the given speed over ground . Basically , you fly like the glider and add enough power to stay at the same altitude . That is all the difference . Please look at the plot below which shows airspeed on the X axis and sink speed on the Y axis . The solution is graphical : You start on the X-axis at the point which corresponds to the wind speed and put a tangent on the sink speed graph . Where the tangent touches the sink polar ( blue line ) , the plane flies at the best L/D for that given wind speed . Move the starting point to positive speeds for headwind and to negative speeds ( not shown here ) for tailwind . If the term " best L/D " is already reserved in your mind , please read this as the " best polar point " . It is really the same . Analytical solution For powered flight things become more tricky , because thrust changes with speed . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Now for fuel flow : This goes up and down with the power output of the engine . Again a simplification , but it helps to get to grips with the problem and gives useful results . This lets us re-formulate the problem as : At what airspeed do I have the best ratio between power and ground speed ? Mathematically , we want to fly with $ \ frac { P } { v_w + v } $ at the lowest possible value . $ P$ is the power , $ v_w $ is the wind speed and $ v $ the airspeed . To express the thrust behavior over speed , I break P up into a product of a constant $ K_S $ , the throttle setting $ \ delta $ and the speed like this : $ K_S \ cdot \ delta \ cdot v \ cdot v ^ { n_v } $ . Here is the general solution , pasted as a PNG to save me all the typing in the editor : Please note that implicitly the lift coefficient is on both sides of the equation . To solve it , you need to do it recursively , until speed and lift coefficient match . I took this form because of the similarity to the general form at no wind which can be found in many performance books . Now I have put the results into a plot . In order to eliminate the aircraft-specific parameters , it shows the ratio of $ c_L $ with wind over $ c_L $ without wind . The plot is metric , but will work for all units if you use the same units for wind speed and air speed . To give an example for the application of the correction factor : If you are flying in a 20 m/s headwind and your best range speed at still wind is 50 m/s ( approx 97 kts ) , the $ c_L $ needs to be 70 % of the $ c_L $ at still wind for piston-powered aircraft . This makes your corrected airspeed 60 m/s ( v is proportional to $ \ sqrt { c_L } $ ) , and now the recursive nature of the formula rear
Yes , your last sentence gets it about right . Just one detail : Air does not move " forward " to flow out again once it has entered the intake - which air goes where is all settled ahead of the intake . Never forget , though , that this effect is small and spillage leaves a net drag component . When compared to a sharp-lipped intake as used on supersonic planes , subsonic intakes are more forgiving for a mismatch between capture area ( area of the stream tube which goes into the engine ) and the actual intake lip area . Below I tried to fake the flow around an intake lip using Inkscape and added blue and red shading to indicate pressure . The core flow gets compressed ahead of the intake ( blue shade , diverging streamlines ) while the outer flow is pushed to the outside of the intake lip by the increasing pressure and now has to follow the contour of the intake . Like with <URL> , the air is accelerated ( converging flow lines ) and a suction peak forms on the intake lip ( red shading ) . This suction peak sits on the forward-facing part of the intake lip and provides some suction . The sharp intake lip of a surpersonic intake would produce separated flow under the same conditions with a considerable increase in drag . <URL>
With these conditions , how would this exist ? The comment by @mins appears to answer the question for modern engines , although I 'm not quite sure if I 'm interpreting your question as you intended , but if your intent is to find out how this happens from an operational standpoint , here 's an answer for the P&amp;W JT9D-3 through -7 engines as used on 747-100/200 aircraft . In 10 years of flying with these engines , I only had a flameout once , so it was n't a major problem , and the -3 engines were more susceptible than the later variants . The scenario is that you 're above 35,000 and you 've reached your descent point and need to reduce power from full cruise to idle . We were taught to first lower the nose to ensure that we would n't lose any airspeed ( a little gain was okay ) and then to slowly bring the thrust levers all the way back . As I remember , we typically took at least 5 seconds to get the levers back . In other words , if you suddenly reduced power or lost airspeed , you risked a flameout . From the pilot 's standpoint , if you had a flameout , all you did was tell the flight engineer to restart it when low enough that that was possible .
The textual description for OLIVI 4W is : However , the remarks section holds the answer : Note " 3 . After 6.0 DME MND BRNAV equipment necessary . " BRNAV in this case means " Basic RNAV " , which is essentially a form of RNAV equipment , but with less stringent certification requirements compared to normal IFR RNAV equipment .
The faster an aircraft is , the wider range of elevator deflections it needs . And so do aircraft with large change of weight ( amount of fuel used ) during flight . However larger elevator deflection causes higher drag . It is more efficient to move the whole horizontal stabilizer instead . Therefore jet aircraft generally have the forward part of the horizontal stabilizer movable . Now it would be possible to simply have the whole stabilizer move . And supersonic aircraft generally have just that . It is called <URL> . However having the stabilizer split lends itself to elegant solution for trim . This takes advantage of the fact , that the aerodynamic forces tend to put the elevator in the position of lowest drag almost straight ( slightly bent in direction of less lift ) behind the forward part . So when the forward part is moved , the lift changes without changing the force on the elevator . So the elevator is used for the small adjustments where the elevator is intended to return to the neutral position , which the aerodynamic forces help with , and the stabilizer is used to trim for current airspeed . In aircraft with mechanical controls , the elevator force ( or a fraction of it via power drive ) acts directly back on the control column and the pilot can feel it , while the horizontal stabilizer is actuated via mechanism that holds selected position ( may be electrical with jack-screw like on DC-9 or hydraulic , but with no feedback ) and connected to the trim , which is usually pair of large wheels on the sides of the centre console . Now in Airbus A320 and all newer models the side-stick does not have mechanical link and the pilot does not feel the force on the elevator anyway . In normal law , the ELACs automaically adjust the elevator and stabilizer so that with side-stick in neutral position , the aircraft maintains 1 G vertical acceleration and therefore straight flight ( at any flight path angle ) . Since the trim wheel does have direct mechanical link , it turns as the ELACs ( or SECs ) adjust trim . However the distinction between elevator and trim is still useful in case of failure . When the system degrades into direct law , the side-stick position corresponds to the elevator deflection and the trim wheel position corresponds to the stabilizer position . Since the side-stick still returns to neutral position , the distinction of using the elevator for momentary adjustments and trim to balance the aircraft to fly ( approximately ) straight at current speed holds ( just because the side-stick is spring-loaded , the force needed to deflect it does not increase with speed as it does for mechanical controls ) .
That ground instructor is giving you bad information . You can not make a blanket statement like " full nose up trim " and expect it to be valid for any and all situations . You are correct that the best L/D speed will yield the best glide ratio and that the speed will vary with weight . The best trim position is the one that will maintain the best glide speed hands off . Any other trim position will require an additional control input to fight the trim and that input will cause additional drag . So no , full nose up trim will not yield the best glide unless by some remarkable coincidence that is also the trim position for hands off best glide speed .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between feathering , and flapping in a helicopter ?
Feathering The collective pitch control , or collective lever , is normally located on the left side of the pilot 's seat with an adjustable friction control to prevent inadvertent movement . The collective changes the pitch angle of all the main rotor blades collectively ( i.e. , all at the same time ) and independent of their position . That 's what you referred to as feathering , notice it says " independent of their position " . It 's for collectively increasing or decreasing of the lift on all blades -- the engine will keep the RPM constant . Using the collective in level flight would cause a climb or descent , while with the helicopter pitched forward an increase in total lift would produce an acceleration together with a given amount of ascent . -- <URL> Flapping Flapping is position dependent as <URL> . Flapping is not pilot controlled . It 's to counter the <URL> .
Based upon the terminology I have heard over the years , a compass swing is the alignment of the compass , normally using a compass rose painted on a surface . The compass is adjusted and a deviation card is created for cardinal points on the compass . A check swing , as I have heard it referred to , is the checking of the compass , and done with the aircraft running , and electrical loads on , similar to a compass swing , but without the adjustment . The deviation card is verified , but there is no intent of adjusting anything . This was typically done before we ferried aircraft over the ocean , where there would be extended dead-reckoning ( before GPS and LORAN ) , and where flights were close to the polar regions , and compass operation needed to be verified prior to the flight . Not that a compass is worth much near the poles ( grin ) . My guess is that check swing is merely a slang term , whereas compass swing is well understood and extensively documented .
There are basically two effects here : One is the ducted fan effect . Ducted fans are more efficient than open fans , specifically creating smaller vortices at the blade tips . The other is the fact that the tail rotor of a helicopter is not situated in an area with almost linear airflow along the rotor axis . It is also submitted to : A steady flow due to helicopter forward motion . This is coming from the side of the rotor , so affects opposite rotor blades differently . A buffeting flow from the h/c main rotor . This is an unsteady flow , also coming laterally from the point of view of the tail rotor ( actually , the top ) . Fenestron tail-rotor ducts can be considered a fairing that reduces airflow across the rotor . The end result is that the rotor blades are in a much smoother flow that helps reduce unwanted turbulence . This is one of the reasons such rotors are quieter than regular open tail-rotors ( the other being the fairing material absorbing some of the noise ) .
Any body moving in a fluid experiences pressure forces over its surface . The concepts of center of pressure , aerodynamics center and neutral point are useful in understanding the effects of these forces . Let 's take an airfoil moving in air with subsonic flow attached to the body . Center of Pressure The center of pressure is the point where the total sum of a pressure field acts on a body . In aerospace , this is the point on the airfoil ( or wing ) where the resultant vector ( of lift and drag ) acts . <URL> Source : avstop.com As the airfoil angle of attack changes , the pressure field changes . Due to this , the center of pressure changes with variation in the angle of attack . In the airplane 's normal range of flight attitudes , if the angle of attack is increased , the center of pressure moves forward ; and if decreased , it moves rearward . <URL> Source : www.flightlearnings.com As the center of gravity ( the point where the weight of the body acts ) is fixed , this movement of center of pressure affects the stability of the aircraft . Aerodynamic Center The resultant ( or the pressure forces ) also cause a moment on the airfoil . As the angle of attack increases , the pitching moment at a point ( for example , the center of gravity ) also changes . However , the pitching moment remains constant at a particular point , which is called the aerodynamic center . <URL> Source : www.theairlinepilots.com For symmetric airfoils in subsonic flight the aerodynamic center is located approximately 25 % of the chord from the leading edge of the airfoil . This point is described as the quarter-chord point . Thus the aerodynamic center does not change with variation in angle of attack . Due to this , the aerodynamic center , rather than the center of pressure is used in the analysis of longitudinal stability . Neutral Point Consider the whole aircraft . The lift of the wing acting through the center of pressure is in front of the center of gravity of the aircraft . This causes a destabilizing motion ( increase in lift to increase in angle of attack causes a nose up moment , further increasing angle of attack ) . This is counteracted by the moment produced by the lift of the horizontal stabilizer ( which is a small wing ) , acting behind the center of gravity . <URL> " <URL> " by User_A1 - SVG derivative of Public Domain work by G J Vigurs . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . As the center of gravity is moved forward , the stability of the aircraft increases ( as the main wing lift arm is reduced ) and the aircraft is statically stable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the center of gravity is moved aft , the main wing lift moment arm increases and the aircraft stability decreases . The aircraft is said to be statically unstable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the aircraft is stable when center of gravity is in the nose and unstable when center of gravity is in the tail , there is a position in the middle where the aircraft is neither stable nor unstable i.e the stability is neutral . This point is called the neutral point . The neutral point is fixed for a particular aerodynamic configuration of the aircraft . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov Thus , Center of pressure of an aircraft is the point where the Lift acts . Aerodynamic center is the point in the wing where the pitching moments are constant . Neutral point it the location of center of gravity where the aircraft is neutrally stable
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
You 're correct that the ailerons are deflected differently when they are deflected up or down . This is done in order to counter the adverse yaw effect which occurs when ailerons are deployed . Consider the situation when the ailerons are deployed . <URL> Image from aerospaceweb.org One aileron is deflected downward while the other is deflected upward . One the side with the downward-deflected aileron , lift increases as the deflection effectively increases the camber of that portion of the wing . The opposite happens in the other side . However , the drag is also affected by aileron deflection - both induced and profile drags . For same deflection , the profile drag increase is same in both the wings . However , the induced drag on both sides are not equal , with a larger amount the wing with the down aileron ( as the lift is more and induced drag is proportional to the square of lift ) . One way of overcoming this is to deflect the ailerons differentially , i.e. deflect the down aileron by a lesser amount than the up aileron . The following table shows the aileron deflection in a number of aircraft , which shows the differential aileron deflection ( $ \ delta _ { A } $ is the aileron deflection , in degrees ) . <URL> Table from Aircraft Design : A Systems Engineering Approach by Mohammad Sadraey This adverse yaw can also be prevented by the use of , Frise ailerons Use of spoilers ( in the wing up aileron ) Cross coupled controls ( rudder and ailerons ) . There is another reason to use a differential aileron - to prevent tip stall at high angles of attack ( stall speeds ) . The rolling couple on the aircraft is always the difference in lift between the two wings . At or near stalling speeds , it is better to reduce the lift in up-going aileron than increase it in down moving one and risk stalling it .
No , they are not interchangeable and indeed , have well defined meanings . A fix is an arbitrary point in space used to establish current position calculated by referring to external references . You take a fix to determine where you are now . A fix might be permanent , for example a compulsory reporting point , or it might be determined by the pilot in advance in order to fly a non-airways route ( e.g. when flying VFR ) and then checked along the way using dead reckoning and reference to external systems or features to check that the plan is being flown accurately . It might also be requested by ATC , e.g. " report when overhead the railroad yard " or calculated to establish where you are , e.g. taking a fix from an astrolabe on a night oceanic crossing . <URL> <URL> . A waypoint is fixed point in 2D space ( latitude and longitude ) used to define points along a route . They are named , and are referenced in a plan . You fly from one waypoint to the next , along a route . A waypoint is where you are flying to . It is normally positioned where there is a change of course or altitude . These are the navigation positions given the <URL> you ask about . <URL> <URL> . <URL> An intersection is where two airways cross . Here , the Victor airways 15 and 76 cross at the intersection . In this particular case , the chart symbol further shows that the V76 airway does not use the intersection , in which case the chart will include a note of the intersection usage . <URL> <URL> . Now sorry about this , but having said they are not interchangeable , it 's not that simple . A waypoint is also a fix ( a fix is any 2D point ) . But you do not call a waypoint a fix . A fix is a 2D point which is not a waypoint , but is used for navigation . A fix might be also be a lat and long defining the beginning of an arrival or departure procedure where you leave or enter an airway . An intersection is also a fix , but it only exists to define where two airways cross ( or where any other 2 lines cross , e.g. the 170 degree and 046 degree radial from two NDB beacons ) so is called an intersection , not a fix . In that sense , they are all fixes but the name has meaning .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
Flight levels use <URL> or pressure altitude , while altitude references <URL> or local pressure adjusted to sea level pressure . Altitudes are used at low levels and flight levels at higher levels . The transition between altitudes and flight levels differs by country and is generally just above the highest obstacle in that country . In the US the transition altitude/level is 18,000 ' / FL180 . Some countries transition as low as 5000 ' / FL050 and the transition altitude/level may vary from airport to airport . In the altitudes knowing accurate elevations relative to the ground and obstacles is important for collision avoidance and this is the reason QNH is used here . Each airport will report QNH and controllers will issue the current QNH as needed . You need to know the QNH for obstacle / terrain avoidance but you need to be using the same QNH as those around you for aircraft vertical separation . Above all terrain/obstacles the only thing we care about is vertical separation , so we no longer need to know about the actual pressure and instead use a standard reference pressure , QNE / 1013.25 hPa / 29.92 " Hg . Note that flight levels drop the last two zeros of the corresponding altitude and so 30,000 is FL300 , not FL30000 . When checking in with a controller , FL300 would be pronounced . It is also worth noting that an altimeter can not actually determine altitude . It can only determine pressure ( technically local static pressure compared to a reference pressure ) . It converts this pressure to an altitude using a calibrated non-linear scale . To illustrate the point , look at this map of 500 mb heights : 500 mb correlates to 5500 m or 18,000 ft in a standard atmosphere . In a real atmosphere this height varies and is not actually level . An airplane flying " level " at FL180 from LAX to NYC last night will have actually descended almost 300 m while indicating a constant altitude . These deviations in true altitude from indicated altitude are acceptable , however , since they effect everyone equally in the same locality and separation is maintained .
Yes there is a distinction , pitch , roll and heading are angles [ unit = radian ] and latitude , longitude and altitude are linear distances [ unit = meter ] . Together , these six parameters define the six Degrees of Freedom that define the momentary state of a rigid object with reference to the earth . All six are defined relative to earth axes . For the linear dimensions this is clear , we just need to define a suitable zero point . For the angles : Pitch is the nose up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Roll is the wingtip up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Heading is the angle relative to a suitable earth reference , usually magnetic north or geographical north . Conversion of aircraft axes into earth axes is a non-trivial matter and the cause of much confusion , for instance in questions comparing lift to weight : lift is always coupled to aircraft axes , weight to earth axes . The axes sets are defined as follows : Aircraft axes Origin : Centre of Gravity of aircraft X-axis : in the symmetry plane of the aircraft , + = forward to the aircraft nose Y-axis : in the span wise direction of the aircraft , + = to the right wingtip Z-axis : perpendicular to the XOY-plane , + = down into the floor . Earth axes Origin : Centre of Gravity at the start of the response X-axis : In the horizontal plane ( relative to gravity ) , + = pointing north . Y-axis : Perpendicular to XOZ-plane , + = pointing east . Z-axis : Pointing to the centre of the earth = + Edit Yes navigation lat/lon is given in [ degrees ] - the INS sensor ultimately converts displacement into proper navigational definitions of course . But for measuring 3-D aircraft inertial effects the SI system is used , and displacement is internally treated as a linear motion , units [ metres ] .
Actually , " stay in the pattern " is non-standard phraseology and should n't be used , even though it means the same thing as " <URL> . Specifying the direction is n't required but it is a good idea to ensure that everybody is thinking the same thing .
Reversible is when there is a direct linkage from controls to control surfaces . For example the cable linkages in a light aircraft up to an MD-80 . Irreversible is when there is a hydraulic power control unit in the way , it can be mechanical or fly-by-wire . And such controls would sometimes need an artificial feel system to relay how much force is being applied . It is found in airplanes that can not be steered by just muscles . A good way to picture it , is what happens if you move an aileron by hand , would the yoke turn as a result or no . Superman might be needed for a 747 's rudder , but still , the rudder pedals wo n't budge . More information <URL> and <URL> . <URL> Source : <URL> Photo shows an unpowered rudder that was swung by the wind , in the cockpit the rudder pedals would show the neutral position , hence irreversible .
Based on the speeds that you are talking about , it is n't a turbojet definition that you are looking for . The definition for $ V_R $ that you gave is for turbojets . In small GA airplanes , I teach my students to rotate around $ 1.3 V _ { S0 } $ which really means to slowly bring the nose up to the takeoff pitch attitude . Under no circumstances do I want them to yank the airplane off the ground . If done correctly , the airplane will naturally lift off when it is ready to .
Published waypoints are waypoints that appear on the charts and in the published navigation databases used by GPS navigators or FMSes . They are referenced using the published identifier for the waypoint . Examples : TPA , ITAWT . Unpublished waypoints are waypoints created by the pilot . FMS allow for the creation/entry of a waypoint by the pilot . The waypoint is defined by one of the following : Latitude/Longitude Place/Bearing/Distance Place-Bearing/Place-Bearing The pilot-defined waypoint can then be added to the flight plan . Here 's a snip of how a waypoint is defined in an A320 : <URL> As to when you would use it , the short answer is when you need to or want to . A common example would be to deviate a short distance off an airway ( maybe 5 or 10 nm ) to avoid a temporary flight restriction . You would just want to avoid the restricted airspace and using a published waypoint or waypoints would take you farther off your route than necessary .
The short answer ( to the question in your subject line ) is that in an explosion the skin is blown outward , and in impact damage it 's ( usually ) blown inward : In other words you can tell the direction of the force applied by which way the skin around a break/penetration is bent , if you recover the right bits of the aircraft . The labs start with " Boom = Outie , Crash = Innie " , and they can also look at burn patterns ( on the paint or as changes in the heat treatment of the metal ) , chemical residue ( if it has n't all washed away or been contaminated ) , etc. . In addition to leaving chemical traces or heat-related damage explosions also tend to be physically " messy " , so there 's usually some physical evidence . Shrapnel punctures through control surfaces are a distinct possibility in an explosion ( those punctures generally have a different characteristic than denting and tearing from impact with rocky ground , and again if you get lucky you might even find bits of shrapnel inside the punctured control surface ) . The longer answer ( to the rest of the question ) is that sometimes you ca n't conclusively tell what happened , particularly from just a single piece of wreckage like a control surface . In fact quoting from the story you linked there are three different ( and valid ) theories about what could have caused the damage seen on the particular piece of debris in question : The rear damage could have been caused if the airliner had its flaperon down as it went into the ocean , some members of Exner 's group wrote in a preliminary assessment after looking at photos and videos of the component . Entirely plausible : Impacting water at speed could tear chunks out of the trailing edge of a flaperon . It could also break the control surface free of the rest of the wing . But the lack of damage to the front makes it more likely the plane was in a high-speed , steep , spiral descent and the part fluttered until it broke off , the group said . Also plausible : Aerodynamic flutter could break pieces of the flaperon off , or tear the entire control surface from the aircraft ( in which case damage may be evident at the points where the flaperon attached to the rest of the wing ) The lack of damage to the front section " tells me that the component could still have likely been back in its original position inside the wing itself , " Still plausible but a bit more exotic : The flaperon could have broken off post-impact ( and the damage to the trailing edge could have occurred on impact , post-impact , or even pre-impact while the aircraft was still flying ) . Note that a lot of what 's being put forth in that article ( and others ) is speculation based on a few photos showing only part of the debris ( so far I have n't seen any showing the " bottom " of the debris ) . A conclusive determination can only be made when the debris is recovered and examined in its entirety . Attempting to draw conclusions without the full picture can lead to interesting results : The apple is perfect until you see the other side . <URL>
The answer to your question is actually really simple : do not exceed the limitations specified in the POH . Really , that 's it ! Note that LIMITATIONS are not the same as RECOMMENDED PROCEDURES . Recommended procedures are just that : recommendations . Limitations ( exclusively from the " limitations " section of the POH ) are the hard and fast rules you must adhere to . Full RPM in Cruise As long as your POH does not impose a limitation on takeoff RPM ( the Seneca II has such a limitation , for example ) , then there is nothing wrong with using max RPM from takeoff to shutdown . You wo n't damage the engine . If the POH provides a limitation on engine RPM ( specifically in Section II of the POH ) , you must adhere to that limitation . It 's common to see a 5 minute " max RPM " limitation on some turbocharged engines . Great , takeoff at max RPM then pull the engines back to the top of the green arc until you land . Easy ! Manifold Pressure &amp; RPM Mike Sowsun said : " You should always follow the manufacturer 's procedures but a general rule for direct drive normally aspirated engines is to keep the manifold pressure less than the RPM for cruise power . ( eg . 24 inches of MP at 2400 RPM ) . " If you decide to apply " rules of thumb " to all phases of flight you will be voluntarily handicapping your airplane 's full potential . Some definitions : Oversquare - manifold pressure > RPM ( 23 " @ 2100 RPM ) Undersquare - manifold pressure < RPM ( 23 " @ 2500 RPM ) Square - manifold pressure = RPM ( 23 " @ 2300 RPM ) Do not embrace the idea that manifold pressure should never , ever exceed the value of the first two digits of the engine RPM ( sounds pretty arbitrary when I put it that way , right ? ) . It actually may be beneficial to run an engine " oversquare " in some cases ! This is another example of why knowing your aircraft 's " Section II " limitations is important . If 23 " @ 2100 RPM falls within the limitations , go for it !! You wo n't hurt the engine . Same with 25 " @ 2300 RPM or 26.756431 " @ 2196.454634 RPM . I think you get my drift . As long as your manifold/RPM combination falls within the limitations set out in Section II of the POH , you 're golden !! Now , climbing out on a hot day with a garden variety Lycoming or Continental ( like in 170 ) ? 29 " @ 2100 RPM probably is n't wise . 30 " @ 2700 RPM ? Yeah , that 's better ! 25 " @ 2500 RPM is n't bad but it 's no better or worse that 26 " @ 2700 RPM or 30 " @ 2650 RPM . Remember , there 's nothing special about " square " manifold/RPM values . I 'd routinely run the IO-520 in my Bonanza at max manifold pressure and max RPM from takeoff to cruise and simply leaning to an EGT target as I climbed ( and watching CHTs , of course ) . Only when leveling off in cruise did I pull it back to an economical setting ( sometimes oversquare , sometimes undersquare ; always lean of peak ) . The engine ran beautifully with good CHTs and incurred no unusual wear . In fact , the engine 's health improved . Exhaust and plugs became noticeably cleaner and compressions improved . In cruise , set the power to any combination of manifold/RPM you desire provided that setting falls within the limitations in your POH . You wo n't hurt the engine with a valid manifold/RPM setting . It 's possible to put undue stress on a motor with a bad mixture setting , though . POHs are notorious for giving poor guidance with regard to mixture settings . Mixture settings require a little more attention above ~ 65 % power but that 's another topic entirely . I recommend that everyone with engine questions read John Deakin 's " Pelican Perch " articles . He 's THE source for fact based , accurate engine operation information . He happens to have touched on this " oversquare " myth here . See <URL> . Edit : I credited John Deakin with my linked article . I was mistaken . The author of the linked article is Linda Pendelton . She links to a Deakin article , though . Mike Busch also addresses the oversquare myth <URL> .
A PAPI and a VASI are very similar in the the information they provide . The only functional differences between the VASI and PAPI is that the VASI has the red over the white , the PAPI the white actually goes to the right of the red , and the PAPI offers higher precision ( or more glideslopes depending how you look at it a larger airliner with a high cockpit may elect to fly a slightly higher glidepath ) . The concept is the same though . A VASI looks like this : Usage : As the saying goes , Red over White , you 're alright . ( on glidepath ) Red over Red , you 're dead . ( too low ) White over White , you 're out-of-sight ( too high ) A PAPI like this : A regular VASI only offers one glide slope and is designed for an aircraft where the cockpit is n't so high up . However , there is a such thing as two-light PAPI , and a three-bar VASI . So either of them can really be tailored to fit the costs and types of aircraft flying to that airport . In the case of a four-bar PAPI it is higher precision . Since the PAPI systems uses a narrower beam of light you must fly the glide path more precisely than the VASI to stay on the beam . The PAPI , with its extra lights , forewarns you when you are drifting from the desired glide path . <URL> So one red light would indicate slightly above glide slope , two and two would indicate the normal glide slope , and three red lights would indicate slightly below the glide slope on a 4-bar PAPI . A Three bar VASI works in similar fashion except there are only two glide paths with two reds being the lower , two whites the higher .
Flight testing is the process ( usually involving a number of test flights ) by which the capabilities and performance of and aircraft ( usually a new one or one which is substantially modified ) are established . Test flight refers to an individual flight which is used for testing purpose . it can be used either as part of flight testing or as a standalone for testing some minor modification .
Here is Boeing 's Examples Block numbers ZA001 Onwards - B787-8 ZB001 Onwards - B787-9 ZC001 Onwards - B787-10 ZD001 Onwards - rebuild of prototypes Line numbers are the serial number of the aircraft of that aircraft type Serial Number is the manufacturers serial ( basically the number of aircraft they have built up to that aircraft ) Airbus does n't use the Boeing Line/Serial numbers , they use a different system where the aircraft serial number is in fact the aircraft line number and the total # of the aircraft being built .
end question
start question
What precautions should be taken when flying near the magnetic poles ?
You raise an interesting question , and I assume you refer to flying near the poles using a lightly equipped general aviation aircraft . Airliners or jets usually have inertial navigation equipment that is working autonomously and will not be affected by pole proximity . Several procedures could be taken in a general aviation aircraft to improve situational awareness : You need indeed to deslave the HSI from the magnetic slaving transmitter in order to use it as a directional gyro manually slaved ( see <URL> ) . The directional gyro will have to be realigned manually regularly to compensate for precession ( astronomical precession is 15 ° / hour at the pole , to the right at North pole , to the left at South pole ) . Do n't forget it is still possible to use astronomical navigation if you are in VFR conditions and able to see stars ( at night ) or the Sun ( during day ) . This will not be very accurate but a precision better than 5 to 10 degrees could be reached without needing a sextant . Computing your location only from star positions is a complex operation , but it is rather easy to find out aircraft true heading thanks to the Sun or major stars relative position from aircraft nose . You could use this heading to manually realign your unslaved HSI/directional gyro . Regarding GPS , it is strongly advised to check in advance GPS coverage near the pole using RAIM prediction function , either from the onboard GPS or using web servers . This will allow you to check the coverage should be assured according GPS satellite locations relative to your position ( an outage is always possible ) . When flying in such remote locations I always bring with me a portable standalone GPS unit , in addition to panel mounted GPS . Standard navigation ( keeping track of position thanks to heading and clock ) of course should be used and near coasts you could cross-check your computed position using landmarks , but above ice caps you will have few or no landmarks . If you are lucky enough to have an inertial navigation platform on board , your position will be kept rather accurately independently of any other input , with an error of the order of 10 NM after 7 hours of flight . The main issue you will encounter in a general aviation aircraft flying near the pole is their endurance is often limited , regulatory fuel reserves are higher than usual , airports are few and far apart , alternates may close quickly due to quickly changing weather conditions . This means that when you fly or are ferrying an aircraft in those regions , you could definitely not afford to get lost or not to be sure of your position .
Whether you have the ROW or not , it is your responsibility to " see and avoid " even if the other pilot is n't . This is the aviation analog to defensive driving ; call it " defensive flying " . There are no hard-and-fast rules for collision avoidance maneuvers . You basically have six options and their combinations , any of which will put you at a different point than you would be at the expected intercept ( collision ) point : climb , descend , turn left , turn right , speed up , slow down . There was a study conducted by students at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , results available <URL> , which might be helpful . The primary purpose of the study was to determine the usefulness of a computer traffic display in aiding the pilot to spot and avoid the traffic , but a secondary goal was to determine the most likely ( and safest ) collision avoidance maneuvers when presented with " intruders " on a collision course in each of 12 basic intercept paths ( overtaking , crossing , or approaching , from the left or the right side , and climbing , level or descending ) . Among the lessons learned were : Pilots ( CFIs were used ) were most likely to maneuver purely in the vertical to avoid traffic , moving opposite the vertical direction of the plane in sight and preferring to climb if the intruding traffic was holding altitude . Despite the pilots ' preference for the vertical , the maneuvers that cleared the " conflict " in the shortest time were in the horizontal plane , either turning opposite the plane 's relative direction of travel to move behind , or slowing to let the traffic pass in front . Pilots tended to do what was " easiest " at the time the conflict arose , especially if the intruder was sighted late ( because the traffic did n't appear on the computer display ; another of the variables they tested ) . Thus , single-axis maneuvers were most common ( not counting the use of throttle to adjust power while performing a maneuver , such as cutting power to dive or increasing it to climb or turn ) . Taking all this under advisement , the maneuver most likely to avoid a collision with another plane in otherwise clear skies is a level 30-45 ° turn in the direction of the intruding aircraft 's tail , coupled with a reduction in airspeed if the intruder is on a crossing or approaching route ( if he 's coming up behind you , maintain airspeed ) . If the other pilot sees you and reacts at the same time , his most likely move will be a climb , which is fine ; if he does n't see you or react at all , you 'll pass safely behind him at the same altitude hopefully avoiding his wake ( if he 's bigger than you ) . However , there 's some interesting game theory here . Any maneuver I tell you to make , except one , will keep you on a potential collision course if the other pilot reacts in the same way at the same time . As you supposed in your question , If you both climb , or dive , or speed up , or slow down , or try to turn behind each other , you 'll crash ( or at least get way too close for comfort ) . So , anything I tell you to do because it 's unlikely the other pilot will do the same will be self-defeating , because eventually other pilots will do the same thing because it works . The one move that wo n't result in a collision if mirrored is a 90 ° turn in the same direction as the intruder 's movement across your vision . If he 's on your left moving right , turn right 90 ° . If he 's on your right , turn left . If the other pilot mirrors your maneuver , worst-case ( an aircraft overtaking you directly from behind who turns the same way as you ) you 'll end up on parallel flight paths at whatever distance you first noticed each other . Best-case , you 'll be heading away from each other and after a couple of minutes you can both reverse your turn and continue along your original heading . But , this move is the worst thing you can do in several scenarios if the other plane holds its course . In high-offset crossing routes ( close to 90 ° ) , turning away from the intruder will keep you out in front of him and probably too close for comfort , especially if he 's faster than you ( turning the crossing-route collision course into an overtaking collision ) . Lastly , any formulaic maneuver we dream up in a two-plane scenario is going to break down when you add more planes , or restricted airspace , or weather . The maneuver may work in cross-country flight , but when dealing with merging Victor airways near a population center , there will be too many aircraft for any single avoidance maneuver to guarantee you 'll get out of trouble without getting into more . So , ultimately , your call .
ICAO ICAO Annex 11 and Doc 4444 confirm the usage of Upper . Airways are four groups per ICAO , the older group is <URL> . Those stand for Amber , Blue , Green , and Red . There are three other groups . So an airway named UG1 will be called Upper Green ( not Golf ) One on the radio . Example they give in Doc 4444 : N0450F310 L9 UL9 STU285036/M082F310 UL9 LIMRI ( ... ) the flight will proceed on Airways Lima 9 and Upper Lima 9 to a point bearing 285 degrees magnetic and 36 NM from the Strumble VOR . From this ( ... ) <URL> also confirms it , check page 251 : <URL> FAA ( for airways only ) Q is called Q ( kyo͞o ) on the radio ( not Quebec ) , J is called J , not Juliet or Jet ( Jet is what it means ) . See <URL> 2 − 5 − 1 AIR TRAFFIC SERVICE ( ATS ) ROUTES . VOR/VORTAC/TACAN airways or jet routes . State the word " Victor " or the letter " J " followed by the number of the airway or route in group form . EXAMPLE − " Victor Twelve . " " J Five Thirty − Three . " The FAA is similar in using the color code for the aforementioned group : Colored/L/MF airways . State the color of the airway followed by the number in group form . EXAMPLE − " Blue Eighty − One . " Also check the <URL> , page 2-24 of <URL> , here are two examples they give : UR5 -- Upper Romeo Five UW456 -- Upper Whiskey Four Fifty Six Yes the FAA handbook does not agree with their ATC Job Order regarding R being Red ( this will be for the <URL> such as those still in Alaska ) . Note : the question asks about airways , the information here is not for tail numbers , navaids , etc. , only airways . See here for how the FAA decides on the designations : <URL>
I finally found several arguments to answer this question from different sources . Sweep and Mach Number from Airbus This argument is developed in an <URL> . To grasp it it is important to understand the purpose of swept wing . By sweeping the main wings one introduces an angle between the leading edge of the wing and a line perpendicular to the fuselage axis . Let 's consider two airplanes , one with swept wings ( A ) and one with straight wings ( B ) . One of the most important parameters is the Mach Number experienced by the wings . It is measured normal to the leading edge of the wing which means that for the two airplanes flying at the same Mach Number , the Mach Number seen by wings of ( B ) is larger than the one seen by the wings of ( A ) . This allows to fly at higher speed because it delays the large increase in drag ( drag divergence ) and other effects linked to the Mach Number around the airfoil . However , if the isobars on the wing are not aligned with the leading edge , they are following a less swept pattern which tends to reduce the benefits from the sweep angle of the main wing because the effective sweep angle is smaller and the Mach Number around the wing should not be computed normal to the leading edge but normal to the isobars close to the leading edge . From a theoretical point of view it would even be better to have isobars not aligned with the leading edge but having a larger sweep angle . However this never happens due to boundary conditions at the root and the tip of the wing . Other sources All this is also explained <URL> . Finally , this last <URL> deals also with the matters but does not justify the need for the isobars to be parallel to the leading edge . It deals more with the shock on the wing and the ways to weaken it and thus reduce the drag .
In <URL> , Northern Domestic Airspace ( NDA ) is the area of compass unreliability within which runways and NAVAIDs are oriented to true or grid north versus magnetic north . You should not need to worry about which NAVAID is to true north ; simply keep track of whether you 're in Southern or Northern Domestic Airspace .
Well , I have two answers for you - one personal , and one practical : Personally , as a pilot ( and very occasional airline passenger ) I think anyone operating a drone should be required to get a pilot 's license of some kind . Maybe I 'm just grumpy , but I spent a lot of time cramming the skills and knowledge into my brain that are required to safely operate in the US National Airspace System . It can get pretty complicated and crowded up there , and I think we need the operators of unmanned aircraft to have a thorough understanding of that . The last thing anyone wants is a UAV smacking into a plane because it wandered somewhere it should n't be PRACTICALLY though , it remains to be seen what regulations the FAA will impose for unmanned civil aircraft - they may require a pilot 's certificate ( speculating : In the category and class equivalent to the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle you 'll be operating ) , or they may require a " remote operator 's certificate " of some kind ( perhaps with special emphasis on remote-operation-specific issues like command uplink delay ) , or they may not impose a requirement at all and treat them like model aircraft until the first accident involving one of these things causes a public outcry . <URL> , until the FAA issues a NPRM telling us what they 're thinking of doing here we really wo n't know - your guesses are as good as ours right now . I would suggest at least an Private Pilot Ground School course while you 're gearing up though -- and I would suggest it even if the FAA decides no license is requried for being a UAV operator . The airspace , chart reading , flight planning , and ATC portions of the course are something you 'll probably want to be familiar with ( and are broadly applicable across all kinds of aviation ) , and a good ground school course usually is n't that expensive . ( As to whether you take the knowledge test at the end of the course , that 's up to you -- the results are good for 2 years in case you decide to pursue a pilot certificate , but the test you have to take as a UAV operator may wind up being different from the one you 'd have to take as a private pilot , or may not exist at all , so you might just be setting yourself up for having to take two tests . Again , at this stage your guess would be as good as mine here . )
Sometimes , prevailing winds will account for the difference -- flights going west to east in the US will generally be scheduled for less time than flights going the opposite direction . The other major factor that can play is in taxi times . If the delays waiting to get in to a gate matched the times waiting to depart at each airport , these delays would affect both legs equally , but that 's not generally the case . Most of the time , at a congested airport like Atlanta , you can generally get into the gate fairly quickly , but the delays getting airborne can be far longer . Thus , a flight scheduled from Podunk into ATL might be scheduled for 10 minutes taxi from the gate to departure at Podunk , the flight time , and another 10 or 15 minutes to taxi in , but in the other direction they might build in 30-45 minutes of taxi time departing ATL , plus the flight time , plus 5 minutes landing until blocking in at Podunk . Thus the leg into ATL is scheduled for flight time plus 25 minutes , while the leg from ATL is scheduled for flight time plus 35-50 minutes . If it 's winter time and your flight was going from BOS or PHL to MCO , another factor in addition to the potential for massive departure delays would be the need to build in time for deicing -- done before departure in PHL or BOS , but not so much leaving Orlando . Of course , if you did n't need to deice " today , " then you 'd probably beat the scheduled time by a good bit . Likewise if the weather was clear and the airport had no delays . But the mega-hub airports run so close to capacity that any little hiccup in the weather or otherwise causes delays to start building , and then you 're using all of your scheduled time , and sometimes more .
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
I would like to point out a few things in your source . First , look at the bottom right picture . It shows an altitude of about 30 feet , guessing that an average airport fence is about 9 feet high ( forgive me if I 'm a little bit off , I usually use SI units ) . Then , if you look more closely , you see that the plane is not actually right above the fence at that point , but quite a bit past it , which means that it was higher when it passed the fence . So , no big problem there . Then the pictures of the bottom of the airplane . You notice how the airplane looks very distorted , like it has a massive nose . This is because smartphone cameras generally have wide-angle lenses - an extreme example would be a fish-eye lens . They severely distort the intuitive concept of distances ( closer looks VERY close , further away looks VERY far away ) - if you try to inspect it a little bit more carefully , suddenly you realize the plane is about 4-5 times the height of the quite large tree in the center of the picture . Again , no big problem . Then there 's the picture of the plane going over the road . This is shot with a narrow angle lens ( probably a good zoom lens or even a telephoto lens ) . This has the opposite effect of a wide-angle lens : things that are in reality separated a lot look really close to each other - my favorite example being <URL> picture . So , while it looks like it 's directly at the top of the hill , in reality it 's probably much further away . Then , finally : even if all of the above were false , it still would n't be a big problem . A stabilized approach is a <URL> . A lower glide angle makes some things quite a bit easier : your engines are spooled up higher which makes them more reactive , and your touchdown will be smoother than Mick Jagger 's moves . Downsides : more fuel consumption , more noise and usually more turbulent winds , which was specifically not the case according to the story ( indeed , they went low to avoid those winds ) .
Most of the liabilities ( but not all ) fall under the insurance of the aircraft . Your insurance policy is your largest liability . This is important not just for protection of your aircraft , but if your insurance ends up void in an incident , you could have a lawsuit on your hands . Do n't assume that aviation insurance is similar to car insurance , either . Insurance Pilot ( on plan ) - Aviation insurance has 3 catagories : Pilot , Named Individuals , Other ( explained later ) . The owner pays insurance based on their qualifications and those specifically named . If you are going to be borrowing on a regular basis , weigh the cost of adding you to the plan . Pilot ( off plan ) - Insurance specifies whether or not you may borrow the aircraft to others , but also what qualifications that pilot must have . You may have only have 100 hours and are insured , but the insurance company may ask for 500 hours of someone you borrow the aircraft to . Aircraft - Regardless of the pilot , if the aircraft is out of compliance on maintenance or airworthiness , it is not being flown legally and therefore voids the insurance . As the owner ( primary on the insurance ) , this is your responsibility as an owner and the pilot 's responsibility as PIC . Both of you can be hit for this one . Reimbursement - Just because it is non-commercial use , your insurance may still specify what you can be compensated for . This may be only the actual expenses of the flight ( fuel , oil , airport fees ) and may include limits on hourly charges for maintenance . Keep in mind that this does not authorize you to break regulation on commercial use . You can not make a profit . Legal flight - Above all else , the flight must be legal . The flight needs to comply with all FAA regulations . Non-commercial use - I keep coming back to this , but this is very important . The pilot may be a commercial pilot , but this does n't authorize them to use the aircraft for hire . With many insurance plans , you can have a CFI train you since you are the owner , but a CFI can not train someone else and you can not train someone else . This makes and aircraft for hire and requires a 100-hour inspection . Other - Pilots who do not own an aircraft may have their own ( renters ) policy . While this may cover liabilities of those in the aircraft , do n't assume that this also covers your aircraft . A pilot paying $ 200/year wo n't likely have coverage for your shiny new Cirrus . Other As the owner , you have liability in accurate record keeping . If you fudge documents on your aircraft that make it appear FAA compliant to the PIC , then you can be held liable . Notes These are only the items that come to mind . Feel free to add .
Thankfully , I never had to make this choice . In my training I learned to stay in the plane and flare at the height of the treetops , then let the plane sink into the branches and have them stop and suspend the aircraft . The fuselage is quite effective as a protective shell , and up on top the branches are thin and flexible . Use the parachute only to hoist yourself down from the stricken plane , if necessary . <URL> Two-seater after landing in trees at Boberg glider port ( picture <URL> )
Up to a certain speed , which will be in the POH , the greatest power requirement is when hovering out of ground effect . Next is hovering in ground effect and power required in forward flight is the lowest , and decreases up until a point where the increase in parasitic drag starts to increase the power required . See a typical power required curve . <URL> <URL> So it is possible to not have enough power margin to be able to hover OGE but enough to hover IGE . To perform a normal take-off ( ignoring a lot of side effects such as need for pedal ) , come to a normal hover height , about 2-3 feet , then push the cyclic forward . Increase collective smoothly to maintain altitude and allow the aicraft to accelerate which it will , since increasing collective increases power and the rotor thrust now has a forward horizontal component . As significant translational lift kicks in at about 10 kts , a reduction in collective is required to avoid climbing early . You do n't want to be climbing with high pitch , and therefore high drag , if the engine quits . When reaching about 45 kts or so , pull back on the cyclic to adopt a climbing attitude . The aircraft will settle at about 65 kts . To perform a " creeping " take-off , increase collective to become light on the skids . Gentle forward pressure on the cyclic will start a slide on the ground . As translational lift kicks in , apply a little back pressure to lift gently to climb to about 1-2 feet to remain in maximum ground effect and continue to accelerate . Wait until 45 kts is reached , and off you go . During this manouver , the collective is left where it is until established in the climb , aside from small adjustments needed to keep the altitude constant during the creep . I am not sure if it is a certification requirement , but every helicopter I 've flown is capable of safely flying when there is not enough power margin to hover OGE , and most helicopters I have flown are on the weak side ( R22 , B206 , B206L , S300 , Enstrom 280 ) so I guess all helicopters can do so . <URL> and I can see nothing about creeping take-offs . I am reasonably sure that the only limits that apply are for RPM , MAP , torque , N1 , N2 , temperatures etc. . As long as you do n't exceed those and are in accordance with the POH , then it does n't matter how you get airborne . As you can see from the power required curve , the power required for forward flight is a great deal lower than for hover . I 've copied in your comment : I understand that vertical climbing is not hovering , but neither is it " flying " in the same sense that translational flight adds lift . Positive vertical climb out of ground effect with no translation is , I deduce , the hardest thing a helicopter can do . The maximum rate of climb in that attitude seems like something you 'd have charts for , but I do n't even know a term or acronym for it . Because of translational lift , a helicopter requires less power to climb when flying forward than it does to hover , in or out of ground effect . The greatest power requirement is when hovering OGE and increasing the hover height requires more power still so yes , climbing vertically OGE requires more power than any other regime . There is no chart , or term for this that I am aware of simply because you should not do it and the POH will detail restrictions , not least , the " dead mans " or avoid curve . <URL> <URL> The only time you should ever climb vertically ( a " towering " take-off ) is when operating out of a confined area when it would not be possible to get out without clearing the trees , walls or whatever . Some pros do it all the time , e.g. power line inspection/repairs , logging and so on but they accept a risk of operating outside of the limits and are certified and insured appropriately . The avoid curve shows the combinations of height and speed in which test pilots ( i.e. the best ) have demonstrated that a safe landing is possible if the engine quits . You should not fly in the shaded area so you can see ( and that chart is similar for all helicopters ) that a towering take-off should never be used unless there is no alternative , and only then , for the shortest possible time . Coming into a high hover , say 50 feet , or continuing a vertical climb OGE is prohibited by virtue of it being in the shaded area ( s ) of the chart . Helicopters are not always intuitive . Many people are surprised by the fact that climbing needs less power than hovering , and the faster you go ( up until that point where the parasitic power increases dramatically ) , the less power is required . Imagine a car where less power was required to accelerate and go faster !
It appears that the first gyroscopic flight instrument in aviation was a gyroscopic stabilizer , with the purpose of <URL> ; it was first used ( publicly ) in 1914 . For this , the inventors , <URL> and <URL> were awarded the Collier Trophy in 1914 . Apparently <URL> by , ... linking the control surfaces with three gyroscopes , allowing flight corrections to be introduced based on the angle of deviation between the flight direction and the original gyroscopic settings . <URL> Lawrence Sperry and gyroscopic stabilizer , Image from wright-brothers . org The device ( with the gyroscopes spinning at 7000 rpm ) was <URL> on a Curtiss F aircraft in 1913 , with the first public flight in 1914 . <URL> Sperry 's second flyby in Paris in the 1914 competition , with Emil on the wing . Image from historicwings.com Elmer <URL> the turn and bank indicator and an optical drift indicator , for which he was awarded the Collier trophy again in 1916 .
If a pilot is not rested enough to safely operate the aircraft , they should not fly . If a pilot is flying and falling asleep , they should switch out with another pilot or land . Current FAA regulations for domestic flights generally limit pilots to eight hours of flight time during a 24-hour period . For the Air Force , actual flight duty periods vary depending on the aircraft type and mission but we are required to get 12 hours of crew rest with the opportunity for 8 hours of uninterrupted rest prior to flying . You can read the FAA 's Fact Sheet on Pilot Flight Time , Rest , and Fatigue <URL> .
The engine does not move , the air flow is only redirected . The method of redirecting the flow varies with the size , configuration , and manufacturer of the engine . The flow does not need to be directed completely forward ; the flow is generally mostly outwards and partially foward . This is still enough to create significant drag and slow the aircraft down . In smaller and older engines , the entire flow is redirected . This corresponds to the first to configurations below . Buckets or clamshell doors close over the jet flow to redirect the air . In larger engines , particularly high-bypass turbofans , only part of the air is redirected . This corresponds to the last configuration below . The core air from the engine still exits normall , but the bypass air from the fan is redirected . Since the bypass air on these engines is a much greater flow than the engine core air , this results in a net reverse thrust . There are multiple mechanisms , but the general idea is to deploy doors that block the bypass air and send it through the sides of the engine cowl . Turboprop aircraft just change the pitch of the propeller blades such that the propeller pushes air forward instead of backward . The pitch in which the blades provide reverse thrust is called the " beta range . " In civil aircraft , reverse thrust is only used when on the ground . There are typically interlocks in the system that prevent the thrust reversers from deploying if the aircraft does not sense that it is on the ground . Once the aircraft touches down , the pilot will deploy the reverse thrust . Some military aircraft like the C-17 can use reverse thrust in the air . This enables them to perform very steep descents . Reverse thrust is more of an " optional " method of braking ( see this <URL> ) , only to provide extra stopping power when needed . This particularly helps when braking force is less effective , such as in rain or snow . Before landing , pilots will take into account the wind , aircraft weight , runway length , and any contamination of the runway ( rain or snow ) . Based on this they will know what kind of braking force is needed and whether they should use thrust reversers . The thrust reversers do n't always have to be operational for an aircraft to fly . Some operators choose to disable them , which decreases maintenance costs . The thrust reversers can also break , in which case they will be mechanically locked to prevent them from deploying until they can be fixed . Pilots will consider this when they are computing their landing distance .
This should apply to the most advanced modern airliners . Older aircraft may not have all of the same automation available . The autopilot can take care of most tasks between takeoff and landing . The pilots have to take care of starting the airplane . This includes turning on electronics , bringing up the aircraft systems , and starting the engines . Taxiing is pretty much on the pilot , there is no automatic taxi yet on commercial airliners . Once the aircraft is lined up with the runway , the pilot can hit the TOGA ( Takeoff/Go Around ) button . The plane will automatically apply the right amount of thrust for takeoff . The pilot will then rotate the plane ( lift the nose ) at the rotation speed ( calculated before the flight ) , and the plane lifts off . Shortly after that , the pilot will engage the autopilot . If the autopilot is set up to follow GPS waypoints and proper altitudes , it will be able to take care of the climb , cruise , and descent portions of the flight . The autopilot can follow the best speeds and fly through each waypoint in the flight plan . Once the aircraft is approaching the runway , the pilot will tune the proper ILS frequency for the runway into the navigation radio . They will then engage the Approach mode , which captures the localizer ( lateral navigation left/right to align with the runway ) and glideslope ( veritical navigation up/down to have the proper approach path ) . The pilot then needs to deploy the flaps and landing gear as the plane slows down for landing . In the lowest visibility conditions , the plane is capable of the approach and touchdown on the runway all by itself . The pilot will then apply reverse thrust and brakes as needed to slow down . Now that the plane is back on the ground , it is once again the pilot 's job to exit the runway and taxi to the gate . Shutting down the engines and then the electronics will also be up to the pilot . What is the autopilot still missing ? Responding to ATC ( readback clearances , change frequencies ) Reacting to nearby traffic Following ATC instructions ( climb/descend , turn , slow/accelerate ) Reacting to emergencies or system failures Controlling lights , flaps , landing gear This is of course a high level view and there is so much more that goes into the flights . Also , keep in mind that we have the technology to do much more . It just has n't made it into service for one reason or another ( lack of development and testing , not seen as important , etc. ) . We have UAVs that are much more automated than this . However , they are still working on how to effectively avoid other aircraft .
I find it hard to make a general answer since the fuel systems could be different between various aircraft , but , according to Jan Roskam 's Aircraft Design series ( I just had to return the book , but I think it 's Part IV in the series ) some model of the F/A -18 utilizes the following system which , in sustained inverted flight ( or any sustained flight condition wherein the aircraft does not experience a positive load factor ) , would eventually starve the engine of fuel . Keep in mind too that fuel is n't the only factor for sustaining this flight condition : oil flow through the engine is typically gravity fed ( reference for that is an engineer from Bell Helicopter who worked on the V-22 powerplant ) . Suction is used to scavenge the oil out of the engine/gearboxes/etc , but the flow of the oil up to a point where suction will pull it out is via gravity ( or whatever acceleration the aircraft is experiencing ) . Hence , not only do we need to provide fuel , but we also need to provide for proper oil flow as well . Anyhow , the F/A -18 fuel system . Again , I wish I had the image from the text to show you , but the basic idea is this : if you had a flop tube capable of scavenging from the entire fuel tank , it would engender more problems than it solved . Hence , inside of the primary fuel tank there 's a second , smaller tank . This tank has a series of poppet valves that allow fuel to flow into the inset tank during coordinated ( i.e. , positive load factor ) flight . When the aircraft is not experiencing a positive load factor , the pressure of the fuel on these valves holds them closed and the fuel stays within the inset tank . A short flop tube within this space provides fuel to the engines for the duration of the maneuver . However , as noted , this inset tank is only a portion of the larger main tank , so its capacity would be some fraction of the main tank , limiting the duration of the maneuver . So , to answer your question ( how does fuel starvation happen and why is n't it solved via a pump ) it 's a design problem that , per the printing of that text , could not be solved by adding capacity to the pump . There just simply was n't fuel present at the fuel sump to be scavenged . The real design problem would lie in the design of flop tubes capable of scavenging from the entire tank without creating more design problems ( an assumed point on my part ) . Examples , I think , would crop up if you decided to make a multiplicity of flop tubes ( larger pumps required , more parts , more complex plumbing , etc. ) , or longer flop tubes ( potential risk for damage to the tube head/tank with increased " flopping " inertia , larger pump required for greater head losses , etc. ) ... but I also do n't know what the current standard is .
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
Another Airbus <URL> mentions ( on page 188 , section 5-2-1 ) full load of A380 as and rate of loading and unloading as From this calculation best case is they can finish unloading and loading within just above 30 minutes . However this is not possible since there will be some delay due to the fact that there are other things to be done during turn around that may disrupt exchange of cargo . Also other services such as cleaning need to be done during turn around time . Airbus provides 2 scenarios for turn around time - 90 minutes if both decks are serviced at the same time . - 140 minutes if both decks are serviced only from the main deck .
According to the definition of the FAA it is a recommended procedure , so there is generally no need to follow it . OBSTACLE DEPARTURE PROCEDURE ( ODP ) - A preplanned instrument flight rule ( IFR ) departure procedure printed for pilot use in textual or graphic form to provide obstruction clearance via the least onerous route from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . ODPs are recommended for obstruction clearance and may be flown without ATC clearance unless an alternate departure procedure ( SID or radar vector ) has been specifically assigned by ATC . ( Source : <URL> ) According to <URL> you are responsible to ensure sufficient obstacle clearance if the airport is IFR ( of course also if the airport is VFR ) . ( f ) Civil airport takeoff minimums . This paragraph applies to persons operating an aircraft under part 121 , 125 , 129 , or 135 of this chapter . ( 1 ) Unless otherwise authorized by the FAA , no pilot may takeoff from a civil airport under IFR unless the weather conditions at time of takeoff are at or above the weather minimums for IFR takeoff prescribed for that airport under part 97 of this chapter . ( 2 ) If takeoff weather minimums are not prescribed under part 97 of this chapter for a particular airport , the following weather minimums apply to takeoffs under IFR : ( i ) For aircraft , other than helicopters , having two engines or less -- 1 statute mile visibility . ( ii ) For aircraft having more than two engines -- 1/2 statute mile visibility . ( iii ) For helicopters -- 1/2 statute mile visibility . ( 3 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( f ) ( 4 ) of this section , no pilot may takeoff under IFR from a civil airport having published obstacle departure procedures ( ODPs ) under part 97 of this chapter for the takeoff runway to be used , unless the pilot uses such ODPs . ( 4 ) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph ( f ) ( 3 ) of this section , no pilot may takeoff from an airport under IFR unless : ( i ) For part 121 and part 135 operators , the pilot uses a takeoff obstacle clearance or avoidance procedure that ensures compliance with the applicable airplane performance operating limitations requirements under part 121 , subpart I or part 135 , subpart I for takeoff at that airport ; or ( ii ) For part 129 operators , the pilot uses a takeoff obstacle clearance or avoidance procedure that ensures compliance with the airplane performance operating limitations prescribed by the State of the operator for takeoff at that airport . In this case it seems to be the easiest way to follow the ODP , but it 's not binding . <URL> correctly commented that this is not applicable for part 91 operation . That 's why I like to add a part of this <URL> , which I 've found on the AOPA website , to my answer . [ ... ] We can not assume that ATC will assign any special routing or altitude based on the ODP . They expect the pilot to fly the procedure if necessary without further clearance . FAA Order 7110.65 R , Air Traffic Control -- the controller 's handbook -- states , " If a published IFR departure is not included in an ATC clearance , compliance with such a procedure is the pilot 's prerogative . " In other words , you have to decide whether you need to follow a specific route or procedure and fly accordingly . Now , we might think this is wrong , dangerous , and dumb , but it is the way procedures are arranged . [ ... ] According to all this information ATC would expect you to follow this procedure , at least in IMC . If you like to fly it in VMC and it does not disagree with your ATC clearance you are also welcome to do so . If there is any confusion I tend to ask and clarify the situation . In most cases an ODP says that you should climb on runway heading at least until passing xxx feet before turning in a direction . I would always comply with it and if there is severe CAVOK and ATC then asks me to turn earlier , I would do it , so everyone is happy and on the safe side .
end question
start question
Helicopters with landing skids , no wheels ; How are they taken in and out of a hangar ?
Basically , you put wheels on the skid and tow them . In some cases , towing wheels are attached to the skids ( which usually have sleeves in them for mounting ) , and a tow bar is attached to the front ( one or two sets of wheels may be attached to the skids ) , which is then towed by a vehicle . <URL> Image from <URL> There are also specialised tow carts available for helicopters , which basically grip the skids ( usually in a couple of places on either side ) and lift them up , after which the helicopter can be moved by the operator by controlling the cart . <URL> Image from <URL>
All studies which so far showed an advantage for blended-wing bodies ( BWB ) were flawed . The trick mostly used is to compare an existing airliner with a hypothetical BWB which uses equally hypothetical engines of improved efficiency , like what could be expected 20 years into the future . This masks the inefficiency of the BWB concept and makes the combination come out ahead . The BWB will always have more surface area than a comparable conventional design . This translates into more friction drag and more skin mass , which more than offsets any advantage given by the bigger wing root ( which helps to reduce wing spar mass ) . If you like real data , use the <URL> as an early BWB and compare it to its contemporaries . Note that design attempts for an airliner based on the Vulcan ( <URL> ) went nowhere . Why are these BWB studies published ? The author gets more attention when he/she claims a " revolutionary breakthrough " than when he/she is more honest and admits that the concept is a dud . Even Boeing or Airbus like to publish BWB studies , so the public gets the impression they are ahead of the competition . It is sickening to read such academically dishonest studies - you need to spend time to dig to the bottom of the thing and to unravel the plot ; however , once you have done this a few times , they all become alike . But compared to studies made 60 or 80 years ago , where the author factually lists what he did and why it did n't work out ( which is the only way you can learn something ) , those modern studies are a waste of time .
Aircraft , fixed-wing or rotorcraft , have limited capability to produce a sideways force , so they simply ca n't throw you out . It is a matter of physics . Inertial forces ( gravity and centrifugal force ) act on you and the aircraft the same , so they wo n't make you move relative to the aircraft . The only force between you and the seat is caused by the aerodynamic forces . And the wing or rotor can only produce significant force vertically , and some torque with help of control surfaces . But for lateral force there is only drag of the fuselage and the vertical stabilizer and , in most helicopters , anti-torque rotor , which do n't produce that much force unless there is really bad turbulence or in some cases if the handling is really bad . When aircraft turns , it banks to be able to produce the necessary side force , so the resulting force is still mostly straight to the floor . Of course the other reason is that all aircraft and helicopters have seat-belts and the people sitting by open door usually have them on -- except for skydivers , who have the parachute on already , and rescue divers who are tied to the winch instead .
Up to a certain speed , which will be in the POH , the greatest power requirement is when hovering out of ground effect . Next is hovering in ground effect and power required in forward flight is the lowest , and decreases up until a point where the increase in parasitic drag starts to increase the power required . See a typical power required curve . <URL> <URL> So it is possible to not have enough power margin to be able to hover OGE but enough to hover IGE . To perform a normal take-off ( ignoring a lot of side effects such as need for pedal ) , come to a normal hover height , about 2-3 feet , then push the cyclic forward . Increase collective smoothly to maintain altitude and allow the aicraft to accelerate which it will , since increasing collective increases power and the rotor thrust now has a forward horizontal component . As significant translational lift kicks in at about 10 kts , a reduction in collective is required to avoid climbing early . You do n't want to be climbing with high pitch , and therefore high drag , if the engine quits . When reaching about 45 kts or so , pull back on the cyclic to adopt a climbing attitude . The aircraft will settle at about 65 kts . To perform a " creeping " take-off , increase collective to become light on the skids . Gentle forward pressure on the cyclic will start a slide on the ground . As translational lift kicks in , apply a little back pressure to lift gently to climb to about 1-2 feet to remain in maximum ground effect and continue to accelerate . Wait until 45 kts is reached , and off you go . During this manouver , the collective is left where it is until established in the climb , aside from small adjustments needed to keep the altitude constant during the creep . I am not sure if it is a certification requirement , but every helicopter I 've flown is capable of safely flying when there is not enough power margin to hover OGE , and most helicopters I have flown are on the weak side ( R22 , B206 , B206L , S300 , Enstrom 280 ) so I guess all helicopters can do so . <URL> and I can see nothing about creeping take-offs . I am reasonably sure that the only limits that apply are for RPM , MAP , torque , N1 , N2 , temperatures etc. . As long as you do n't exceed those and are in accordance with the POH , then it does n't matter how you get airborne . As you can see from the power required curve , the power required for forward flight is a great deal lower than for hover . I 've copied in your comment : I understand that vertical climbing is not hovering , but neither is it " flying " in the same sense that translational flight adds lift . Positive vertical climb out of ground effect with no translation is , I deduce , the hardest thing a helicopter can do . The maximum rate of climb in that attitude seems like something you 'd have charts for , but I do n't even know a term or acronym for it . Because of translational lift , a helicopter requires less power to climb when flying forward than it does to hover , in or out of ground effect . The greatest power requirement is when hovering OGE and increasing the hover height requires more power still so yes , climbing vertically OGE requires more power than any other regime . There is no chart , or term for this that I am aware of simply because you should not do it and the POH will detail restrictions , not least , the " dead mans " or avoid curve . <URL> <URL> The only time you should ever climb vertically ( a " towering " take-off ) is when operating out of a confined area when it would not be possible to get out without clearing the trees , walls or whatever . Some pros do it all the time , e.g. power line inspection/repairs , logging and so on but they accept a risk of operating outside of the limits and are certified and insured appropriately . The avoid curve shows the combinations of height and speed in which test pilots ( i.e. the best ) have demonstrated that a safe landing is possible if the engine quits . You should not fly in the shaded area so you can see ( and that chart is similar for all helicopters ) that a towering take-off should never be used unless there is no alternative , and only then , for the shortest possible time . Coming into a high hover , say 50 feet , or continuing a vertical climb OGE is prohibited by virtue of it being in the shaded area ( s ) of the chart . Helicopters are not always intuitive . Many people are surprised by the fact that climbing needs less power than hovering , and the faster you go ( up until that point where the parasitic power increases dramatically ) , the less power is required . Imagine a car where less power was required to accelerate and go faster !
To understand how a helicopter works ( and in fact the mechanics of other aircraft too ) , it 's helpful for you to be familiar with a key concept in physics , called Newton 's Third Law of Motion . It says , in general terms , " for every action , there is an equal and opposite reaction " . Here 's a simple thought experiment . Picture yourself wearing a pair of rollerskates , standing up , holding a basketball . Now , throw the basketball out in front of you using a two-hand pass ( bring it to your chest and push it out in front of you ) . You 'll find yourself moving backwards on the skates . You wo n't be moving as fast backwards as the ball will be moving forwards , because you have more mass than the ball , but you 'll move , because the force of you pushing the ball out forward created an equal force moving you in the opposite direction . A helicopter , and in fact most powered aircraft , work the same way . when a helicopter 's rotor moves through the air , it pushes air downwards through a combination of its airfoil design , which moves air downwards as it passes over the top of the rotor , and an upward angle to the blade relative to the oncoming air that pushes the air with the underside of the rotor . By Newton 's Third Law , the force pushing the air downward creates an equal and opposing force pulling the rotor , and the helicopter attached to it , up into the air . <URL> To hover , all that 's required is for this force pulling the helicopter up ( you can consider it as either " lift " or " thrust " ) to equal the force of gravity on the helicopter , which is its weight . If these forces balance , the helicopter will remain the same distance off the ground . If lift is greater then weight , it will rise into the air , while if weight it greater , it will sink or fall . Now , normal aircraft have to move forward through the air in order for their wing to get the airflow needed to generate lift . A helicopter , by rotating its wing , can produce the airflow over the lift surface without the entire helicopter having to move forward ( or backward or sideways for that matter ) . So , it can rise straight up into the air and truly hover over a single spot on the ground . <URL> The tail rotor of a helicopter is necessary to counter another force produced by the helicopter ; torque . Torque is similar to force - really it is a force - but it 's being produced in a circular direction instead of a straight line . The helicopter 's engine uses torque to spin its rotor . Again , by Newton 's Third Law , if the rotor of the helicopter is being spun clockwise by the engine , the helicopter itself will begin to spin counter-clockwise . To counteract this torque , most helicopters have a second , smaller rotor which works the same way as the big one , but directs the force of its thrust sideways in the opposite direction to the way the helicopter 's body wants to spin . <URL> This sideways rotor does n't necessarily have to be on the tail , but it works best if it 's on the end of a long lever arm , such as the tail boom of the helicopter . The closer it is to the main rotor 's shaft , the more thrust it has to produce in order to counteract the torque of the main rotor . It does n't have to be on the side of the tail either ; many modern helicopter designs have the tail rotor spinning inside an aerodynamic duct in the middle of the tail : <URL> Helicopters also do n't necessarily have to have a tail rotor at all ; all that 's required is equal , opposing torque to that of the main rotor . A common substitute for a tail rotor is a second , counter-rotating main rotor : <URL> <URL>
Unfortunately , countries tend to want to decide themselves how stuff is supposed to work once you 're within their borders . That 's why we have different rules and laws , and when you go somewhere else in the world , you might need to know some of the differences . In England they drive on the wrong side of the road , imagine that ! :) Anyways , in order to have things run smoothly in something so utterly international as aviation , there 's this organization called <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) where I believe most countries of the world are members , where the rules are that the ICAO drafts recommendations ( I believe they are called ) which the member states should incorporate into their respective laws and regulations . If they choose not to , they need to inform the ICAO of such deviation , do n't know exactly what happens then , but I believe the idea is to at least let everybody know there 's a discrepancy . Anyway , the ICAO Annex 5 specifies units to use , including units for altitude and actually specifying meters as the primary unit , with feet being accepted as non-SI alternative . Why on earth you 'd want to go against the majority on this I do n't know , perhaps due to the fact that it 's an SI unit and they want to be as much SI as they can . So it 's basically up to each country how they want to play it . Most countries stuck with feet .
While there are many exceptions to east-west runways , generally speaking <URL> ( which blow from a single direction ) blow east-west rather than north-south . It happens because of Earth 's rotation generates <URL> . <URL> There are <URL> besides prevailing winds . <URL> occur near the equator and flow from either the north or south towards the equator . They curve towards the west due to the spin of the Earth . <URL> blow close to the north and south poles . They blow away from the poles and curve east to west . Hence , most of the runways are Eastish-Westish ( not exactly East-West ) .
Generally the planes are scrapped by a <URL> . The parts will either be removed and sold as spares , or chopped up and recycled or disposed of . So a lot will depend on how easy it is to remove the part , and how much of a market there is for it . Airplanes are disassembled to a large extent during heavy checks , which can provide an opportunity for substituting in spares . Engines : Probably the most valuable part of the airplane . These will be removed and either used as whole spares or for spare parts , depending on the condition and how many of the type are still in service . Cockpit instruments : These will be removed and used as spares as well , if there is enough of a market ( everyone wants those <URL> these days ) . Interiors : These may be removed as well , they can be used as spares . Control surfaces : These can be removed and used as spares as well . Windows : These can be removed and reused . Systems : Pumps , electronics , lights , actuators , etc. : Most of these can be removed and sold as spares . Landing gear : This can also be removed and reused , depending on the number of cycles it already has . Tires : The tires may be reused if not worn out . The <URL> may not be reused . Airframe : Although some parts may be able to be used , generally the effort and the fact that there are probably many cycles on the part will prevent much from being used as-is . The metal will be chopped up as scrap . They are already working on recycling major <URL> as well , since manufacturing scrap is already being created . <URL> , with modern recycling processes , the metal , plastic , wires/electronics , and carbon fiber composites are used for : 15 % High-grade industrial 50 % Low-grade industrial 35 % Landfill As it often is with business charts , it 's not clear if these are by weight , volume , or what . <URL> claims to recycle 90 % of the weight of an aircraft . There are of course cases like <URL> where the plane is donated to some institution , but this does n't happen to most planes . There are also ways that airplane parts find <URL> .
As others above have stated , the Kamov KA-50 family is fitted with an ejection seat . First the blades are separated from the blade sleeves , which remain attached to the mast ( rotor hub ) . a few fractions of a second later , the conventional upwards firing ejection seat is launched , using extraction rockets tied to cables to drag the seat clear of the airframe . This cutaway image shows it to reasonable effect . ' 46 ' indicates where the blade separates from the sleeve . The little sketch of the smoke on the lower right blade shows the separation , and the ' 18 ' and ' 19 ' show the extraction rocket . <URL> Digital Combat Simulations 's ( DCS ) line of computer simulations models the ka-50 , including the ejection seat . I 'm sure there 's video from the game online somewhere . <URL>
Two things : <URL> . This can be alleviated by carefully touching down , but you never know what exactly will happen in the next landing , so better do n't count on it to be smooth Deceleration distance : The higher mass requires a higher approach and touch down speed ( higher by the square root of the mass ratio between your actual mass and the maximum certified landing mass ) . Now you have more mass and more speed , but the landing strip and the airliner 's brakes are still the same . The risk is that you overshoot the runway with an airplane full of fuel or that you overheat the brakes ( which will result in their failure , and again an overshoot ) . Since the kinetic energy is proportional to mass times speed squared , the energy which needs to be absorbed by the brake goes up with the square of the mass increase . If the selected runway for your overweight landing is long enough and the weather is calm ( so a smooth landing is easier ) , an overweight landing is not such a problem . Now let 's look at the 777-300ER in detail . I use the figures from <URL> , because the <URL> is trying much harder to hide the relevant data . The MTOW ( maximum take-off weight , which is actually a mass ) is 351,534 kg , and the maximum landing weight is 251,290 kg , about 100 tons less . Now let 's assume that <URL> and returning to the airfield uses 5 tons of fuel , so the mass ratio is 1.379 . Therefore , the approach speed has to be 17.4 % higher and the total kinetic energy at touchdown is higher by a factor of 1.9 compared to the case at maximum allowable landing weight . If we now assume that speed is reduced linearly during the landing run and that the wheel brakes will just absorb as much energy over time as in the case at maximum landing weight , the deceleration needs to be lower by the mass ratio , so the aircraft decelerates with only 72.5 % of the deceleration at maximum landing weight . To shed its kinetic energy , the landing run will take longer by the increase in kinetic energy , i.e. 1.9 . Since the average speed is also higher by 17.4 % , the landing distance will be higher by a factor of 2.233 or 223 % of the landing distance at maximum landing weight . This neglects that the heating of the brakes is an instationary process , so you can not simply brake with the same intensity for more than twice the time they were designed for . But this little estimation should illuminate what impact a higher landing mass has on the energy and distance involved .
There are usually extra oxygen masks in the cabin - it is a regulatory requirement . From <URL> : ( c ) If certification for operation above 25,000 feet is requested , there must be oxygen dispensing equipment meeting the following requirements : ( 1 ) ... There must be ... at least two oxygen dispensing units connected to oxygen terminals in each lavatory . The total number of dispensing units and outlets in the cabin must exceed the number of seats by at least 10 percent . The extra units must be as uniformly distributed throughout the cabin as practicable . So the cabin crew can use the nearest unused oxygen masks . Also , each flight attendant position has a portable oxygen system , which can be used in case of emergency ( though it is intended usually for therapeutic purposes ) . in addition , there is also the Protective Breathing Equipment in the cabin . Though these two are not intended for normal use during decompression , I guess it can be used in case of an emergency .
It 's complicated ;) There are two types of stability ; dynamic and static . If an aircraft is disturbed by , say , a gust of wind , it will deviate from its attitude but then will immediately and without control inputs return to its original attitude . This is positive static stability . If it remains in the disturbed attitude unless corrected , it has neutral static stability . If it continues to deviate , it has negative static stability . If the aircraft returns to its original attitude , overshoots a bit , then corrects back , overshoots a little bit less and so on , eventually returning to its original attitude , then it has positive dynamic stability . If these oscillations continue and do not " damp " down until the original attitude is regained , then it has neutral dynamic stability . If the oscillations grow increasingly large , then it has negative dynamic stability . For helicopters , I will ignore those with autopilots , hydraulic controls and stability augmentation systems . Imagine hovering . A gust of wind hits the helicopter . The disk will " flap " away from the gust and the helicopter will move with the gust . When the gust stops , the disk now experiences airflow from the opposite direction , since it is now moving sideways . The disk will flap back the other way , returning to neutral but the fuselage acts as a pendulum hanging under the disk and its momentum will cause it to swing further out , tilting the disk more and causing the helicopter to move faster in the opposite direction to the gust than is required to return to the original attitude . Eventually , the airflow now comes from the direction the helicopter is moving in so the disk flaps away , the fuselage swings too far and ... . Unless corrected , it will continue to swing backwards and forwards , rolling , yawing and pitching . It is statically stable ( because it tends to return to the original attitude ) but dynamically unstable since it continues to swing backwards and forwards from the original attitude . In forward flight ( and unless you want to know , I 'll skip the details which include what direction the gust comes from , the tendency of the fuselage to weathercock and " blowback " since the details all about which way the disk flaps and which way the fuselage weathercocks and are a lot of words ! ) , a helicopter is statically stable and dynamically stable in yaw and is statically stable and dynamically unstable in pitch and roll . You can take your feet of the pedals and the aircraft will be stable in yaw . You can take your hand off the collective ( although you should never do this - if the engine quits , you need that lever down fast ) and it will stay where it is , ignoring perhaps vibration making it eventually move up or down . You can not take your hand off the cyclic since this is the control which determines pitch and roll and corrects for dynamic instability on a constant basis . On a light helicopter , you would be out of control within a second or two . On a heavy , maybe three or four seconds . In summary , a helicopter is statically stable and dynamically unstable in all three axes in hover and forward flight except yaw in forward flight where it is dynamically stable .
The AIM gives good advice , but that is really all it is . It is acceptable methods of complying with the regulations , but you are not required to comply with what the AIM says . In questions of what you are required to do , especially in questions of whether you might be at risk for a violation , we want to look at the regulations in 14 CFR . <URL> states , in pertinent part : No person may : ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise [ ... ] -- ( 1 ) Operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights ; ( 2 ) Park or move an aircraft in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport unless the aircraft -- ( i ) Is clearly illuminated ; ( ii ) Has lighted position lights ; or ( iii ) is in an area that is marked by obstruction lights ; ( b ) Operate an aircraft that is equipped with an anticollision light system , unless it has lighted anticollision lights . However , the anticollision lights need not be lighted when the pilot-in-command determines that , because of operating conditions , it would be in the interest of safety to turn the lights off . Note : Position Lights are commonly called Nav Lights Anticollision Lights can include what are more commonly called Strobe Lights and Beacon Lights ( See AIM 4-3-23 ) Lets first look at what the above regulation says about operating requirements . Is your given scenario ( engine off , etc. ) an example of operating the aircraft ? <URL> gives the following definition of operate : Operate , with respect to aircraft , means use , cause to use or authorize to use aircraft , for the purpose ( except as provided in § 91.13 of this chapter ) of air navigation including the piloting of aircraft , with or without the right of legal control ( as owner , lessee , or otherwise ) . By that definition I would argue that towing , pushing , or otherwise moving an unoccupied aircraft with engine ( s ) shut off would not be operating that aircraft anymore than leaving the aircraft parked overnight would be operating it , since you are not using the aircraft for the purpose of air navigation . Thus I would say that you are not required to follow any rules that pertain to operating the aircraft , such as that any installed anticollision light be lighted . ( This is in contrast to an airliner pushing back with a load of passengers , flight crewmembers at their stations , electrical power on , APU running , etc. , which would be operating , since the aircraft is being used . ) This leaves us with the Park or move paragraph . This paragraph specifically pertains to " in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport " . What is a night flight operations area ? Absent any proffered definition , the plain reading of the phrase -- as I read it -- would be an area used , or subject to use , for flight operations at night . In other words , any public use airport with an apron or taxiway that is open to flight operations at night could and should be considered -- by my reading -- a night flight operations area . Whether the area is a movement or non-movement area should n't matter . Could someone else reasonably taxi past you ( or into you ! ) at night ? That 's probably a night flight operations area . Thus , for your given scenario , if you are pushing your aircraft back into a tie-down spot on an apron that is open to night flight operations , by regulation it must be either : a ) clearly illuminated ; b ) have lighted position lights ; or c ) be in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I typically see airport ramps clearly illuminated by large overhead lights . This clearly meets the first requirement . Another means of compliance would be to turn on an internal hanger light to clearly illuminate the airplane when you push an airplane in off a taxiway into a hanger . You are also good to go if you are in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I do n't think I have ever seen these demarcating an area where you would be pushing or towing an airplane ( I 'm thinking of those lighted construction barriers ) , but if you saw them I suppose you would know . In the absence of clear illumination or an area marked by obstruction lights , if you are going to park or move the airplane at night , you had better turn on the position lights . And this , I think , is where you could be at risk for a violation . Note that , even in that case , the requirement is for position lights , not the beacon . Unless the aircraft is being operated , there is no requirement that any installed anticollision light be lighted .
Before the main cabin door is closed , the ramp personnel will deliver a cargo sheet that lists number of checked bags number of gate checked bags number of heavy checked bags pounds of commercial cargo pounds of company cargo With numbers broken down by cargo bin where accurate . The flight attendant will deliver a sheet with passenger count in zones . The FMS or EICAS screens can tell you how much fuel is on board . From there , some airline have ACARS programs that you plug those numbers into and it will give you weight information ( to turn #bags and #people into pounds ) . Other have worksheets to calculate the weights . In the EMB-145 we then had to spin a special wheel with the weight information to get the balance info . This can vary by operator . Some operators will have the W&amp;B calculated by dispatch and all of the numbers I mention above are put into the computer system by various people and the dispatcher will deliver the W&amp;B and takeoff reference data to the pilots via ACARS . What if there is a problem ? Problems can be overweight overall , overweight in the cabin , overweight in the bag compartments or out of balance . For overweight , remove people or bags as necessary . If fuel has not arrived and you can do without some , call dispatch to revise the numbers and load less fuel . If you are out of balance , you move people or bags around . This was rarely an issue and if it does happen you just ask a passenger from zone X to sit in zone Y for takeoff .
Rather obviously , both of these situations are far from likely to occur . As a result , the following is just idle ( but hopefully informed ! ) speculation -- I do n't recommend experiments ! I 'm going to be a little bit cheeky in answering this question -- you 've asked if it 's possible for " a fixed wing aircraft to [ ... ] get the engines up to speed and fly off . " I 'll answer " Yes , but it depends on the aircraft . " For the fixed wing aircraft I usually fly , a <URL> , getting the engines up to speed is a doddle -- it 's powered by gravity ( and essentially stays aloft by the sun ) . What matters here is the <URL> of the aircraft in question , and how quickly the pilot could recover from the ' upset ' of being kicked off the top of a tall building , and land somewhere sensible ( which can only realistically happen once the aircraft is not stalled ) . If the relative airflow over the K21 's wings is about 35 knots ( 40 mph , 65 kph ) or greater , they generate enough lift to keep it airborne ( and going about 30 m forward for every meter down ) . If we assume that you 're a free-falling body , Newton ( in the form of $ v = u + at $ ) says that it 'll take about 1.8 seconds to reach that speed , and you 'll fall ( $ v ^ 2 = u ^ 2 +2 as $ ) about 16 meters during that time . Of course , you 'll be pointing nose down at the ground , accelerating , and needing to do something about it -- which will take time , and , more importantly distance . But , in the grand scheme of sky-scrapers , mountains and cliffs , 16.2 m is n't that high . Incidentally , for this reason , bungee launching is a traditional method of getting gliders airborne in parts of the world with big hills -- a team of runners using glorified elastic bands shoot brave pilots into the blue yonder , as illustrated by the picture below ( at the Long Mynd ) . So , given that a hill is enough height for a sailplane to take off , possibly for a few hours on a good day , I 'm reasonably sure that something like the John Hancock Centre would provide more than enough time for a pilot to recover from an odd attitude , loop forward to a nose-down dive , recover smoothly from it , and fly away ( from the big building behind him ) . The gif you linked to featured what looked a lot like a small private jet . I defer to the others on this site with a lot more turbofan experience than I , but I 'll just say this : given an hour that I spent in a 777 simulator , twenty minutes were spent going from " cold and dark " to pushback , I suspect you 'd have a much harder time doing it . Of course , rapid engine starts are possible in some aircraft . It depends a lot on the exact circumstances you 're asking ( and passenger jets tend not to be designed for inverted flight , for example ) . By all accounts , this situation is n't probably going to be very recoverable . If the blades are stationary when the aircraft starts falling , they 'll be fully stalled , resulting in a low-rotor RPM stall , which , depending on the brand of helicopter may not " be recoverable " ( e.g. , even with a working engine , Robinson helicopters are generally not recoverable from a very low rotor RPM stall ) . Autorotation is the driven motion of the rotor by the air falling through it , but , as pointed out , fully-stalled blades at any angle will not generate much torque ( or lift ) , and therefore be unable to arrest the rate of descent of the falling aircraft . I presume that the only exception would be a fuselage that could provide lift through another means , such as the <URL> .
I like to show people videos of <URL> These videos show that wind does not have an effect on how well the aircraft stays in the air - no matter how strong it is , it only effects the path taken over the ground . A steady wind makes zero difference to the aerodynamics , whether it is a piper cub or a 747 . The aircraft does n't know what the wind is doing - comparable to you closing your eyes while floating on a smooth flowing river , you would n't think you are moving . The stated crosswind limit is only for landing , when you need to be able to fly in a straight line with precision . I think the big thing you 're forgetting is that the wind correction angle is affected by the true airspeed ( TAS ) . The faster the TAS , the less correction is needed for the same wind . Think about it , if you are travelling forward at a faster velocity , it will take a bigger force to knock you off course . 737s have a TAS of about 400-450kts , so whilst a 150kt wind is strong , it 's not all that different to a 30kt wind in a GA aircraft . 99 % of the time there will be a crosswind component of some kind , but the method of correction for jets is no different to GA - just point the noise into wind as per your calculations . Back to flying backwards for a minute . The only safety issue would be if the wind were to suddenly stop . The aircraft indicated airspeed would suddenly be 0 and a potentially unrecoverable stall could develop . But one thing many ' ground dwellers ' do n't appreciate is that the wind - in fair weather - is actually fairly constant when it is not effected by ground obstacles and friction . Generally speaking , the higher you go , the more steady and predictable the wind will be .
@Lnafziger is correct that absolutely ZERO contact between aircraft flying in formation is acceptable , with Aerial Refueling ( AR ) being the sole exception to this -- but in that case the AR equipment is designed to allow for what 's going on . The problem with contact IS the significant risk of damage to the aircraft involved , so the assumption in " assuming no damage is caused , how much impact ... " is outside of typical experience . IF you could assure no damage , then all sorts of things might be possible , but even pretty stoutly built fighter jets still are n't " bumper cars " and should n't be treated as such . Even if a collision did n't cause an immediate structural failure , the risk of damage to the internal structure of the wing/tail/whatever would be enough that the aircraft would have to be taken apart &amp; xray 'd ( or another non-destructive inspection method ) to ensure that there was n't damage that would later result in structural failure . The one exception to all of this that I can recall was a technique that the RAF used in WW II to defeat the V-1 " buzz bomb " cruise missiles . While the Spitfires could shoot them down , the small size of the missile meant that you had to get so close that you were probably flying through a cloud of debris right after you killed it ( i.e. the warhead would detonate and the shrapnel might bring down the Spitfire as well ) . They discovered that the gyroscopes in the V-1 guidance ( i.e. the primitive autopilot ) would tumble if they were inverted , so some pilots would fly formation with the V-1 then intentionally make contact with its wing with their own , flipping the buzz bomb onto its back . At this point , the autopilot lost its bearings and the V-1 went down into ( presumably ! ) empty countryside , crashing far from its London target . Other than this , formation flight is carefully planned out so as to minimize all risk of contact between the aircraft . Even in the ( very cool ! ) video of the Blue Angels , you can see that there is always space between the wingtips -- more space for the more dynamic maneuvers , with the least space during a fairly brief and reasonably stable pass . Remember , these pilots are extremely good &amp; highly experienced in this sort of formation flying , and while there IS oscillation in pitch &amp; roll , the formation is designed so that this can safely go on . There just is n't much risk there of a force that would move one aircraft directly to the left or right of its position . Turbulence might produce a rolling or pitching motion that could LEAD TO a collision , but the pilots have enough control authority to correct these sorts of forces . That 's why they 're able to do what they do , safely . Fly Navy !
I would like to point out a few things in your source . First , look at the bottom right picture . It shows an altitude of about 30 feet , guessing that an average airport fence is about 9 feet high ( forgive me if I 'm a little bit off , I usually use SI units ) . Then , if you look more closely , you see that the plane is not actually right above the fence at that point , but quite a bit past it , which means that it was higher when it passed the fence . So , no big problem there . Then the pictures of the bottom of the airplane . You notice how the airplane looks very distorted , like it has a massive nose . This is because smartphone cameras generally have wide-angle lenses - an extreme example would be a fish-eye lens . They severely distort the intuitive concept of distances ( closer looks VERY close , further away looks VERY far away ) - if you try to inspect it a little bit more carefully , suddenly you realize the plane is about 4-5 times the height of the quite large tree in the center of the picture . Again , no big problem . Then there 's the picture of the plane going over the road . This is shot with a narrow angle lens ( probably a good zoom lens or even a telephoto lens ) . This has the opposite effect of a wide-angle lens : things that are in reality separated a lot look really close to each other - my favorite example being <URL> picture . So , while it looks like it 's directly at the top of the hill , in reality it 's probably much further away . Then , finally : even if all of the above were false , it still would n't be a big problem . A stabilized approach is a <URL> . A lower glide angle makes some things quite a bit easier : your engines are spooled up higher which makes them more reactive , and your touchdown will be smoother than Mick Jagger 's moves . Downsides : more fuel consumption , more noise and usually more turbulent winds , which was specifically not the case according to the story ( indeed , they went low to avoid those winds ) .
I do n't think that three bladed helicopters are rare . in fact , if you see European small helicopters , most of them are three bladed : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> - its coaxial , but still . . Kamonv has mostly used three rotors for its coaxial helicopters . Most of the early small helicopters by the <URL> also had three rotors , rather than two or four . Atleast if you see the Eurocopter helicopters , you can see a pattern - they are developed from one another and trace their lineage from the <URL> , <URL> and <URL> - all of them have three rotors . In the US , most of the smaller helicopters have teetering rotors , which default to two - This has been the case from <URL> to <URL> . Here again , the UH-1s transmission system was a development of the Bell 47 . Again , if you 're in US ( or for training generally ) , you 'll be <URL> , so it appears that there are almost no three bladed helicopters ( with <URL> ) being and exception . There are advantages and disadvantages in having different number of blades . In general , <URL> . You pay for higher lift capacity , performance and ( usually ) lesser noise with mechanical complexity and lesser efficiency . In the end its a trade off . In this case , I think that this three Versus four rotors shows a clear geographical difference , which looks like the availability of engineers and their differing ( previous ) experience played a more important part than anything else .
It 's not a printing error . FAA sectional charts are updated only once every six months . In order to to reduce the number of NOTAMs due to sectional changes ( which can number in the hundreds between cycles ) , the FAA provides a section in the Airport Facility Directory ( AFD ) , titled " Aeronautical Chart Bulletin " that identifies changes that have occurred since a chart 's publication . Pilots should check this section on each AFD update for changes on their intended route of flight . Once the change is posted in the AFD , the respective NOTAM is taken down . Here is an image of the applicable AFD page for Salinas , as of the date of this answer :
end question
start question
Why do some Air Forces not allow Color Blind Pilots ?
In fact , most militaries do n't take colorblind people into flight school . Colorblindness can be a serious problem for a pilot , because in the interest of cost and/or simplicity , not all indicators in an aircraft cockpit are colorblind-accessible . It 's really cheap to use a two-way red/green LED as a status indicator ( and by quickly alternating the current through the LED you get amber ) ; it 's much more expensive in electro-mechanical systems to combine text and color so that the status can be deciphered by someone who is red-green colorblind . It becomes easier again in a glass cockpit , but that increases cost and there are still concerns like screen resolution to consider when designing text-and-color displays . While it 's in the general interest of aviation manufacturers to design certain avionics with as many overlapping visual cues as possible , it 's not always feasible to specifically design towards colorblind accessibility in every circumstance . Here is a set of spectra simulating how various forms of colorblindness would change a person 's perception of the normal color set : <URL> Protanopia and deuteranopia are various forms of red-green colorblindness , the most common form of dichromia ( protanopia is a deficiency in red cells , deuteranopia a deficiency in green ; the results are similar because red and green are close in wavelength ) . Tritanopia is commonly called blue-yellow colorblindness and is less common , with full colorblindness ( monochromia ) being very rare . From this chart , we can deduce the following basic difficulties for a red-green colorblind person attempting to operate a plane : Red on brown , or any dark color , would have no contrast . That would make reading ( and setting ) this Cessna radio stack nearly impossible : <URL> ... as well as decreasing the contrast of red lines on high-elevation sectionals ( like Charlie/Echo space boundaries , non-towered airports , NDB frequencies etc ) : <URL> Green and yellow are practically indistinguishable . That would make discerning the borders of inhabited low-lying areas on sectionals difficult : <URL> ... as well as making the color-coding of this airspeed gauge much less useful at a glance : <URL> Blue and magenta are indistinguishable , as are cyan and white . That makes your GPS useless over water ; where 's the magenta line ? <URL> While you could probably get around most of these difficulties ( buy a nav stack with blue LED displays , trace the borders of your sectional charts in something , configure the GPS to give you a white line , etc etc ) these are all images that people with full color vision would be able to discern at a glance , which in an emergency situation is often a life-or-death advantage . That point is especially true for military pilots , who are typically subject to more rigorous medical screening and training including very high requirements for visual acuity ( often better than 20/20 uncorrected vision ) . If you ca n't see extremely well in a combat situation , you will either fail to spot an enemy until he has gained a significant advantage over you , or you will fire on friendly forces ; either way , you 're a liability . Coupled with the fact that everyone and their brother grew up dreaming of being a fighter pilot , flight schools get to be picky . Therefore , military aircraft cockpits are typically designed with the assumption of full color spectrum perception , because the only people who will ever be in them will be able to tell red from green , blue from yellow . Consider , just as one example , a hypothetical conflict in the Middle East involving the Turks and Iranians , where NATO and thus the USAF is also involved . Both of these countries still operate variants of the F-4 Phantom . With an ROE requiring visual confirmation of a hostile , if you are in a USAF F-22 , in a visual-range tangle with an F-4 whose IFF is inconclusive ( either non-functioning or malfunctioning ) and you ca n't tell the difference between these two rondels ... ... you are screwed . The fact the Phantom is maneuvering against you is what any pilot would do when approached by an aggressor aircraft ; a Turkish pilot is n't just going to sit there and be shot down by friendly fire , he 'll engage defensive , so you can either shoot and risk spending the rest of your life in Leavenworth for dereliction of duty , or break engagement , presenting your tailpipe to the other craft and hoping it 's not hostile . Fifty-fifty shot either way with a hundred and fifty million dollar plane on the line , not to mention your life . Your first clue it 's an Iranian would be a missile launch , and no matter how much more advanced USAF craft are now than in the era of the F-4 , an aircraft that has successfully launched a short-range missile at you has you by the wrinkly ones . In addition , ground lighting systems are often not differentiable either . For instance , there is an important difference between a heliport beacon flashing green-yellow-white versus white-green-red ( the one including a red fla
It 's a little complex , but here is a shot . Take a look at the following graph : <URL> What you can see is multiple airspeeds . For a plane , the rate of cruise is maximised around Airspeed B is reached - this is when the difference between power available and power required is the greatest and therefore the most excess energy is available for climb . The slope here indicates how much power is necessary for that airspeed - the steeper the curve , the worse it is . The value is really high for airspeeds all the way to left . If you were to deploy the flaps , you would sort-of shift the power required curve to left - adding drag , reducing the difference between the power available and power required , reducing the maximum rate and in the process increasing the power necessary . <URL> In the equation above , you want to increase lift . Yes , you can do this with flaps - it would increase CL . As you yourself state , it takes a lot of drag to use flaps and slats . Another option is to increase velocity . This is more efficient and uses less energy . The reason we need is flaps is since as the velocity drops for landing , we need to increase the CL to maintain sufficient lift for landing . Airspeed for B for landing though is much too fast , so you want to slow down to the left side of the graph . See <URL> on a little more detail on this relationship . As for flap limitations , they appear to be 20,000 ft for the Boeing 737 - Mostly because boeing found them unnecessary to use at higher altitude .
Practically speaking , the ' heavy ' designator ( ' super ' for A380 and An225 ) is to help enforce separation requirements due to wake turbulence . In case of AF1 , it is not as if other aircraft are going to be allowed near it , so the designator is redundant . Regulation wise , FAA <URL> , specifically states that the ' heavy ' designator should not be used : When in radio communications with " Air Force One " or " Air Force Two , " do not add the heavy designator to the call sign . State only the call sign " Air Force One/Two " regardless of the type aircraft .
There is a chance you suffer from <URL> but you should consult a physician to obtain a proper diagnosis ( Disclaimer : I am NOT a doctor ) . For what its worth commercial planes are pressurized generally to about the <URL> this equates to about .75 Atm . In the reverse case 33ft underwater already has you at 2 Atm . When I fly ( generally unpressurized ) I usually chew gum which i find helps .
The 747-300 was somewhat of a cross between -200 and SP . The -300 was almost same as the -200 except for the increased length of the hump . The -300 was never a success and was soon overshadowed by the -400 . The 747SP was the result of a requirement for longer range aircraft . Boeing engineers basically <URL> . However , by the time it flew for the first time , commercial air travel had changed ( in no small part due to the high oil prices ) and the model never sold as much as Boeing had hoped . However , when it was observed that there were no adverse effects when the rear of the cockpit lined up with the front of the wing , Boeing introduced the 747-300 with increased length of the hump with little else in terms of major change from -200 . However , just two years after -300 was introduced , Boeing introduced the -400 , which was a significant improvement - it eliminated the flight engineer , increased range among others , while retaining the -300 's hump ( which meant more economy seats ) . 747-400 is the most successful model of the series , with more than 690 orders . Most airlines jumped straight to the -400 , effectively killing the -300 . Actually , the 747-200 production ( with over 390 made ) ended after the -300 version ( of which only 81 were made ) . So they are more of contemporaries . Also , it 'll be a stretch to call that the older 747 versions are still in passenger service . 747-100 is <URL> , <URL> hardly qualify as passenger service and the most successful of these , the 747-200s are also <URL> , if you discount the VC-25s flying around with US President ( which are slated to be replaced by 747-8s ) .
By sweeping wing backwards , you essentially make the air ' see ' another airfoil . Look at these two diagrams : When the air meets the wing , it travels along $ V$ . This ' seen ' airfoil is a lot thinner than $ V1 $ ( which is perpendicular to the leading edge ) . As the aircraft experiences less pressure , the aircraft experiences less drag . However , this also reduces the velocity of the air . This is good if you 're looking to delay things such as shockwaves as the air goes supersonic , since spreading the force out more delays this effect and the flow separation which comes with it . Unfortunately , for all the advantages , It would have a very high landing speed . So the wings are swept forward , the aircraft has a more effective aerofoil for lower speeds , and the minimum airspeed decreases correspondingly . There is now more drag , but also more lift which you need for the slower speed . <URL> puts this nicely in not all too-complex terms : If we were to begin to slide the wing sideways ( spanwise ) , the sideways motion of the wing relative to the air would be added to the previously perpendicular airflow , resulting in an airflow over the wing at an angle to the leading edge . This angle results in airflow traveling a greater distance from leading edge to trailing edge , and thus the air pressure is distributed over a greater distance ( and consequently lessened at any particular point on the surface ) . This scenario is identical to the airflow experienced by a swept wing as it travels through the air . The airflow over a swept wing encounters the wing at an angle . That angle can be broken down into two vectors , one perpendicular to the wing , and one parallel to the wing . The flow parallel to the wing has no effect on it , and since the perpendicular vector is shorter ( meaning slower ) than the actual airflow , it consequently exerts less pressure on the wing . In other words , the wing experiences airflow that is slower - and at lower pressures - than the actual speed of the aircraft . One of the factors that must be taken into account when designing a high-speed wing is compressibility , which is the effect that acts upon a wing as it approaches and passes through the speed of sound . The significant negative effects of compressibility made it a prime issue with aeronautical engineers . Sweep theory helps mitigate the effects of compressibility in transonic and supersonic aircraft because of the reduced pressures . This allows the mach number of an aircraft to be higher than that actually experienced by the wing . Is there a performance gain ? Depends on your definition : Having fixed swept wings would imply that : The landing speed might be unacceptably high , and with that , long runways would be required . You could design a fast and light aircraft.Take the F104 Starfighter for example , which had thin , short wings for the same effect but could n't move them , and was extremely dangerous at slow speeds . Having variable wings : The F14 was intended for carrier operations , where you would want a slow landing speed . Making an aircraft go that fast would probably have been impossible otherwise . It was also designed for long range operations , adding weight of fuel . Adds weight and mechanical complexity to the airframe , which increases maintenance cost and fuel burn . If I understand it correctly , today aircraft today rely more on system such as high-lift devices like for instance slats and flaps .
The ceiling is the lowest altitude where clouds cover more than half of the sky . This is important because climbing above that altitude means you will most likely have to fly through clouds . <URL> and pilots are required to have special training to fly in low visibility . If the ceiling is too low , pilots ca n't be at a safe altitude above the ground and out of the clouds at the same time . Low ceilings are also critical for landing , and may require pilots to make an <URL> . <URL> refers to UTC time , which is the universal coordinated time . Zulu or UTC time is helpful as a worldwide reference in fields like aviation , to avoid issues like dealing with changing between local time zones . The ATIS will contain the Zulu time that it was updated so pilots know how recent the information is . The dew point in relation to the temperature gives the pilots information about the humidity , and can affect visibility . If the dew point is close to the temperature , humidity is high , which can cause hazy conditions , or even fog . As with the ceiling , this can warn pilots of possible changes in conditions that will make it harder to see the ground or other aircraft while in flight . In terms of aircraft performance , the dew point is also needed to determine the true <URL> , when <URL> . A high dew point means a higher density altitude , which reduces aircraft performance . Dew point is also very important in certain helicopters with carburetors , like the Robinson R-22 and R-44 helicopters , which are subject to carb icing even during take-off because they only use as-required power rather than full throttle . In this case , carb heat needs to be applied whenever the temp/dew point spread is 15C or less . Here is the citation from the <URL> : <URL>
The FAA provides an <URL> I would say it falls under " aviation concern " . In your description if you include tail number and time they should be able to figure out who was flying ( or in the cockpit if its a 2 man situation ) . You can also contact your <URL> and report the tail number and time of incident . Aircraft owners/renters ( the people the tail number will trace back to ) will more than likely know who was flying a given tail number at a certain time so as long as you know when it happened you should be ok its not necessarily on you to know who was flying but the tail number and incident time is key .
Looking at the <URL> at the Government of Canada web site , the definitions of overshoot and go-around are overshoot ( 1 ) To pass beyond the limit of the runway or landing field when trying to land . Fr : dépasser ( 2 ) Other expression for : go-around and " Go around " An expression used in radiocommunications to instruct a pilot to abandon an approach or landing . Fr : " Remettez les gaz " go-around The procedure followed by a pilot who decides to abandon an approach or landing . Fr : remise des gaz Plus , looking at various Flight Test Guides listed at the <URL> it appears that pilots in Canadian flight schools are taught " overshoot " procedures for missed approaches ( vice go-around ) . Seeing as you were watching a reality TV show dealing with Canadian pilots , it is not surprising they use the terminology they were most likely taught in flight school ( in Canada ) .
As the previous answers have stated , their schedules are determined by what best suits their needs . However , those schedules can be complicated by contractual and curfew requirements . A contractual example : Thousands of expatriate Brits live in the south of Spain . They want their morning London papers . We would depart Stansted ( just north of London ) as soon as possible . We were contractually committed to have the load to Barcelona by 07:00 local , with huge penalties if we failed ( the papers were worthless by noon ) , and then on to Palma de Mallorca . Hopefully by now , they transmit the papers electronically and print them locally . A curfew example : A cargo flight departing Hong Kong bound for Chitose , Japan ( refuel there then on to Anchorage ) . The old Kai Tak airport at Hong Kong had a 23:00 local curfew ; Chitose had a curfew until 06:00 local . The solution to that was to depart Hong Kong just before the curfew , land at Taipei and park for a couple of hours ( I forget the exact time ) , and then continue to Chitose to arrive just after 06:00 local . All Japan airports at the time had a curfew from 23:00 local to 06:00 . You could go out to the south end of the airport just before 06:00 local , and set your watch by the first arrival of what was tens of aircraft , both passenger and cargo , whose departure time was determined by the need to arrive as soon as possible after the airport opened
Broadly speaking , radiation exposure can be mitigated in three ways : Time , Distance , and Shielding . Two of these mitigating factors ca n't really be improved : Distance and Time . For distance , the radiation exposure concern for commercial jet pilots ( and travelers ) is generally related to <URL> and ultraviolet radiation from the sun . The sources are already quite distant , and the practical distances we can achieve on Earth wo n't make any appreciable difference here , so we can neglect distance . Time ( duration of exposure ) is already somewhat limited by the duration of flights , but the cumulative effect over multiple flights is what we 're generally concerned about when we discuss " pilot 's radiation exposure " . As their career requires them to fly , and the nature of jets means they 'll be flying at high altitude there 's not much that can be done with time , except perhaps having a very short career or not accepting a large number of flights . These options are not economically attractive if flying is your career . That leaves shielding . Pilots sacrifice the benefit of shielding ( from the Earth 's atmosphere ) as they climb : The atmosphere is less dense and there is less of it between the pilot and the background radiation , therefore their exposure is increased . It 's here that improvements can at least theoretically be made : The pilots and passengers already gain some shielding from the structure of the aircraft , but not nearly as much as 30,000 feet of atmosphere provides . The aircraft could be constructed with additional radiation-shielding materials ( lead foil for example , and UV-attenuating tints in the windows ) but doing so would add a significant amount of weight . As with most radiation shielding situations it ultimately becomes an economic trade-off : You implement shielding to bring the exposure ( dose ) down to an acceptable level given the time and distance constraints you 're working within . The additional dose received by pilots <URL> , and adding shielding to reduce it further would not give a huge increase in safety . The costs ( in terms of aircraft design , construction , and operating cost to carry the additional weight ) would exceed the cost of treating the relatively minor complications such as skin cancer which may result from the additional exposure over a lifetime career of flying . If all of that was too much to read , the short answer to your question is " The best way to mitigate increased radiation exposure from flying is to remain at low altitudes . " ( Similar to how the best way to mitigate the increased radiation from living in Denver , Colorado at ~ 5,000 feet above MSL is to move to New Orleans , LA at 7 feet below MSL . ) The next best thing would be to fly less frequently or on shorter legs ( to reduce the duration of exposure ) .
You must have heard wrong . Clipping wings is done to reach higher maximum speed . You mention light sport aircraft , so I assume they have propellers driven by piston engines . This means their power output is constant over speed and the thrust is inverse with speed . To calculate their <URL> , you can use the venerable <URL> which shows that the aircraft has to fly at its optimum L/D for maximum range . At this speed , induced drag equals zero-lift drag , and span helps to cut down the former . Clipping the wing will shift the optimum cruise speed up , not down . With clipped wings the aircraft has less surface area , which will reduce zero-lift drag . This is the drag component which determines maximum speed . Induced drag will go up , but it is insignificant at maximum speed , so the aircraft will be able to fly slightly faster .
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
It was originally Royal Air Force slang for altitude in thousands and not a way of pronouncing AGL . Up in the air , where the angels fly . <URL> Angels 10 meant 10,000 feet . Cherubs were hundreds of feet .
Stall was an unfortunate choice of words for an engine that quits suddenly since the aerodynamic stall means something different1 . To a non-pilot , a stall can best be described as the situation where there is not enough air flowing over the wings to create the amount of lift needed to hold up the airplane . The main reason that student pilots practice stalls is to learn the telltale signs that occur just before it happens and to make the recovery procedure automatic . If pilots can recognize an impending stall , they can take corrective action to either avoid the stall altogether or to recover as quickly as possible . Outside of training , inadvertent stalls typically only occur shortly before landing and after takeoff , when the pilot gets distracted while already at a slow speed . In both of these situations the airplane is very close to the ground , immediately requiring the correct action from the pilot in order to avoid a crash . This needs to be instinctive and corrected using <URL> so that it is accomplished as rapidly as possible . The next logical question is usually : How does a pilot fix an airplane that has stalled ? Fortunately , airplanes are designed so that even during a stall the tail is still effective2 and the pilot is able to use it to force the nose down . This makes the airplane go faster , since it is pointed down towards the ground , and gets more air moving over the wing which allows it to create enough lift for the airplane to start flying again . During practice it is usually pretty uneventful , but when it happens at a low altitude there may not be enough time to regain flying speed before the airplane crashes . For more information , AOPA has a great Safety Publication targeting flight instructors called <URL> which is available on their website . 1 However , the sail on a sailboat can also " stall " when there is n't enough wind and since they have been around since 3,000 BC I guess that technically this usage of the word applies to both situations . 2 There are some stalls in particular airplane designs known as deep stalls that can be unrecoverable . I do n't think that this is important when describing it to a layperson though .
Rivets need to press the two parts together AND to transmit shear . The pressure results in friction which is responsible for a considerable part of the load transmitted between two riveted panels . In order to hold up to the maximum possible amount of shear , the rivet needs a smooth surface . A thread would make it much more vulnerable due to the notch effect of the thread . Since skin panels and flanges vary in thickness , a LOT of different screw sizes would need to be kept on stock so that every combination of panel thicknesses is covered with a fitting screw which has just the right amount of smooth shank length . Rivets , on the other hand , will be hammered to the right length during manufacture , so only a few sizes are needed to cover all those panel thicknesses . Historically , metalworking tools were much less precise than today . For optimum shear transmission , the bolt must sit tightly in its hole . In the past , this could not be done with screws , but only with rivets which grow thicker when set in place . And since aviation regulation authorities are VERY conservative , the easiest to certify joints are those proven rivet joints . Also , repairability is not so bad with rivets , especially if you can reach only one side . The rivets get drilled out ( with a slightly larger diameter drill ) and after inspection the parts are riveted together again . And if you need the lowest mass for a given strength , again rivets win over screws . The difference might be small for the individual rivet , but it adds up for the whole airframe .
This answer assumes that " GA " means " little piston planes . " Aluminum ( or non-fabric ) aircraft tend to " hold up " better against the elements . I would not store a Stinson 108 outdoors but would not think twice about storing a 172 ( or Cirrus ) on an open air tiedown . The fabric covering requires a great deal of care compared to the metal ( or composite ) skin of most GA planes . Fabric planes must be re-covered every few decades , more frequently if neglected . This is a non-trivial operation with a price tag to match . This typically involves reconditioning the now-exposed structure which adds significant cost . Re-covering and painting a Cub ( small plane ) , for example , can cost an owner tens of thousands of dollars . Stripping , treating , and painting a " metalized " Cessna 120 ( similar to a Cub ) is a much easier , faster , and cheaper task . Another consideration is the availability of aluminum . Aluminum was declared a strategic material in WW2 and , as a result , a great deal of energy was allocated to increase production . With the war over and the infrastructure in place to produce a lot of aluminum cheaply , why adhere to an antiquated manufacturing process requiring a painstaking level of detail when lower skilled labor can use cheap aluminum to mass produce high quality planes ? In short , fabric planes typically require more care and attention than their stressed skin cousins . They also require somewhat specialized and skilled labor to build and maintain . This generally translates into higher costs for everyone involved . I 'm sure there are technical reasons for the shift away from fabric but I 'll let Peter ( or another technical expert ) comment on those .
Yes they do , and <URL> they 're better than paper ones . All sorts of aircraft can have electronic checklists , from large airliners to small Cessnas : modern avionics like the G1000 <URL> and the older but very common GNS430 <URL> . In the US at least there 's no legal requirement to use checklists in any form - electronic or paper - with some caveats : They 're considered a fundamental best practice in aviation , so if you do n't use them then someone could argue that you 're acting <URL> Incorrect - especially missing or incomplete - checklist use <URL> ( see <URL> too ) so clearly it 's in your own best interests to use them properly If you 're flying for an airline then your <URL> probably requires use of checklists , in which case they 're mandatory As for mobile devices , there are already many <URL> and <URL> that support <URL> . In some cases the app provides a template for a specific aircraft type , in others you have to enter it all yourself . There may be some copyright considerations , but third-party checklists are <URL> so obviously it is n't a huge issue . Finally , it 's worth noting that many pilots - especially those who own their own aircraft - <URL> for their own needs .
This question devolves into two related questions . 1 ) When buying or leasing the plane , what is the most economical plane for this route ( and other routes that the plane may have to fly ) at your airline . One size does not fit all , what is optimal for one leg may be much less desirable for the next . " Economical " includes capital costs , maintenance costs , operating costs , and down-time costs . Are your maintenance facilities proficient on this type plane ? Are your pilots cross trained on this new aircraft ? 2 ) Years later your short term choices are limited to the aircraft in your inventory . What is the best available aircraft for this flight ? For the entire route ? Can this plane fit into the runways at the required airports ? Can the aircraft make the trip without stopping for fuel ? How many passengers have booked this flight in advance ? the questions that need to be considered are many . Short answer : " Oh , I think I 'll fly the Turboprop today " is not how it works . It is a long involved decision considering multiple factors all leading to what user16230 calls efficiency and what I will call profit . Same thing measured differently .
The RAT is automatically deployed on many aircraft , including the CRJ and A320 series , but it can be manually released as well . In between the loss of power and the RAT spins up you have the batteries to fall back to which are normally fully charged . The Airbus Manual has the following comment on the APU : In case of total loss of all main generators , the RAT is automatically extended and drives the emergency generator via a hydraulic motor . The EMER GEN supplies the AC ESS BUS and the DC ESS BUS via the ESS TR . The ECAM WD remains powered , with associated procedures presented . Alternate law is operative through ELAC 1 and SEC 1 ( <URL> ) While this is for the CRJ , who call it an Air Driven Generator ( ADG ) : In the event of a complete AC power failure in flight , the ADG will automatically deploy and supply emergency AC power to the ADG bus and to the AC essential bus . If the automatic deploy function fails , the ADG can be deployed manually by pulling the ADG manual release handle on the ADG CONTROL control panel at the rear of the center console . ( <URL> ) A RAT , with the spring loaded actuator visible : I think most if not all are spring loaded , and have a little help from gravity on the way . You 'll also notice that many are stored to be pushed into place by the jetstream . Have a look at this <URL> below around 0:20 . The slow upwards motion suggests that it 's having to reload the spring energy at 1:20 . The doors are attached mechanically . Taking a look at the Airbus Electrical System : <URL> As can be seen , there 's a hierarchy to electrical power use , and the battery feeds the essential busses , where the RAT deployment would be included . If I 'm not mistaken , power is very limited : You loose some of the more fancy control computers along with the non-necessary stuff , like the copilot 's displays , as can be seen in the following <URL> . Bear in mind that some aircraft , such as the 747 ( up to -400 ) , do not have a RAT on the aircraft , and rely on the windmilling engines to provide sufficient hydraulics to control the aircraft , and as such there 's no deployment of sorts necessary .
end question
start question
Can having an incorrect hair color on my FAA medical certificate get me in trouble ?
This probably wo n't cause you any practical trouble unless you go for a new certificate or rating ( the data on your medical needs to match the data on your IACRA form which needs to match your existing certificates - an examiner may refuse to conduct a test if there are discrepancies ) . It 's something you should correct though : It 's presumed your hair color on the medical is your natural hair color , and if you get ramp checked you do n't want to have to explain the discrepancy . Counterintuitively the answer for " How do I fix this ? " is buried <URL> : Q : The data on my medical certificate does not match what is in the FAA Airman Registry database , what should I do ? A : If it is less than 60 days since the date of issue of your certificate , contact your AME ( Aeromedical Examiner ) for resolution of this issue . If it is 60 days or more since the date of issue of your certificate , contact the FAA Aerospace Medical Certification Division for resolution of this issue . The contact info is below .
Two wheels side-by-side would only be needed if the craft is in danger of tipping over sideways . Airships should stay upright because the lifting gas will still provide most of the lift , and the wheel is only for carrying the remaining load . It can swivel for ground maneuvering when the airship needs to swing into the wind while mooring at the mast , but will neither absorb big <URL> nor carry the craft at high speed , so it can be kept small . On the lower tailfin you should only provide a bumper for unintended ground contact ; adding a second wheel would only make sense when the ship touches the ground with both wheels when level . This would be a bad design , however , because maneuvering will be much easier when the lower tail fin provides enough ground clearance to allow pitch angles of approx . 3 ° - 5 ° . Note that the lower fin on most Zeppelins was smaller than the upper fin ; only the last , less slender ones could afford equally sized fins . In that case , however , you need sufficient propulsion power to keep the cruise speed well above the <URL> .
The FAA <URL> contains the guidance for Aviation Training Devices , including the BATD 's . The AC states that as long as the system has been FAA approved by the manufacturer ( and in your case you say that it " meets the FAA requirements " ) , that no specific approval is required for training conducted under 14 CFR 61 . For use under 14 CFR 141 however , you would need specific FAA approval ( see below ) . 14 CFR 61 Approval You must simply follow the conditions specified in the AC : 5 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 61 . To be approved for use for pilot training and certification under part 61 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing procedural training in all elements for which it is to be used . Those elements should be specified in an acceptable training curriculum or as specifically authorized by the FAA and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components as required by paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c ( 2 ) . If the device is being used in a course of training for a pilot certificate or rating , a person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . In addition , a BATD may be used in a training curriculum that provides for : A similar scope and content of a syllabus that is used under part 141 ; Instructional materials for flight events ; A means of showing progress , such as an outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance ; and The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval . 14 CFR 141 Approval 141 Approval is almost the same , but must be approved by the school 's POI ( principle operations inspector ) : 6 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 141 . Local FSDO may approve BATDs as part of an overall part 141 curriculum approval and certification process . Pilot schools that want to use a BATD as part of their training curriculum must notify their principal operations inspector ( POI ) . The POI is responsible for approving how the BATD is to be used in the certificate holder 's part 141 curriculum . To be approved for use under part 141 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing training in all elements in which it will be used , as specified in the syllabus , and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components required in paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c of this appendix . A person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . e. Be used in an integrated ground and flight training curriculum which provides for : The scope and content of a curriculum in compliance with part 141 , The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval , Instructional materials for flight events , and An outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance .
Yes . Human beings can get sucked into jet engines if they are close enough - this has happened multiple times in a number of aircraft ranging from <URL> to <URL> . However , it happens only in rare cases - usually in case of miscommunication or a mistake , when <URL> . The following image shows the safety hazard area for aircraft engines . <URL> A warning poster , available from Boeing , reminds ramp and maintenance workers about the dangers of engine ingestion ; image from <URL> In addition , the engines also have hazard-area warning decals on the nacelles to warn the ground personnel of the dangers . <URL> Warning signs on engines ; image from <URL> . As for the maximum weight that can be ingested , it will vary with the engines , though they have been known to ingest items from <URL> to <URL> , and of course people .
UPDATE 9/4/2017 I 'm thrilled this post has been so helpful for so many people . As such , I wanted to update it with more details and more current links in case people are interested . Enjoy ! You could have a lot of fun , and get a lot out of reviewing the footage of your lessons . I 'd look into a suction cup mount as you are already considering . When buying a suction cup mount , make sure you get one that is " beefier " than you expect you need . Whatever you do , make sure you share your videos online , your video might even get someone else interested in aviation ! Below are the details of doing what you asked . You might be able to buy a used , older model gopro for a comparable price - but I 'd actually argue your phone is probably a better option . What to buy : ( this all actually gets kind of expensive , but is still cheaper than buying a go pro and accessories ) Must have : To get GoPro functionality from your iphone , you 'd need a mount and a case : <URL> ( Optrix Super Sucker Mount ) <URL> ( Case ) This is a mount that mimics the functionality of a go-pro mount . It also let 's you know if pressure is dropping in the suction cup as you climb . If you ever feel brave enough you could even stick this to your wing ! <URL> The view angle probably is not wide enough . This inexpensive kit will apply a wide angle to your iphone . I 'd make sure your case/mount does n't preclude using one of these . Best alternative camera to GoPro : <URL> ( Garmin Ultra Virb 30 ) I love the aviation data overlay of this camera . It works very well and helps debriefing a lot . I personally prefer this over my GoPro because it includes that data . Best GoPro options : <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Black ) 4k resolution @ 30FPS , 12MP quality is great . I use this mainly for wing mounted shots . <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Session ) The nice thing about the session series is they are small and super simple to operate . I use this camera to point inside the cabin , on the side windows . It is nice because it does n't block as much of my view outside , even in a mount on suction cups . Important Accessories : <URL> ( Zoom H1 ) I use this to record ATC/Headset audio . It is easy to have it recorded to its own device and lets me have better control over the audio recordings than if it was part of a video file . The audio is oftentimes more useful than the video alone , especially with your instructor explaining things to you . Having a separate device also reduces your point of failure risk if you have a camera battery die . <URL> ( Headset cable to record audio ) You need this cable to " grab " audio from your headset jack to record it to a camera or external recorder . ( Note - the Garmin Virb 30 Aviation bundle includes this ) <URL> ( External Battery ) You will be running out of battery fast if you record HD video for any length of time . This external charger will keep you from running out of battery . ND ( Prop ) Filters ( remove the weird prop strobing from your footage ) ( Note - the Garmin Virb 30 Aviation bundle includes this ) <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Black ND Filter ) <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Session ND Filter ) Placement : The best place to put it would be between the seats on the ceiling pointing landscape style towards the instrument panel . This would give you a view of all of your instruments and maybe even a bit of the horizon . At first , we all struggle to use the horizon as a reference instead of instruments , so putting the camera close to head level might help develop a good sight picture . <URL> <URL> Unless you set up a second camera , you are unlikely to get rudder input on film . This video shows a good example of that angle , but might be impossible while getting dual instruction . <URL> <URL> Words of caution : Make sure your filming does n't distract you . This is really serious and not something to shrug off . Remember , you do n't want the FAA to have footage to shove in your face of you being reckless . Make sure you do n't damage the aircraft with the mount . The windshields in particular are vulnerable to being squeezed out of shape from the pressure in the suction cup , especially if they are hot . I have seen some indented windshields recently due to gopro mounts , which makes it very hard to get a normal sight picture ( imagine looking through a fun house mirror ) . UPDATE Another issue I recently saw was a result of someone using this camera : <URL> . The camera has a built in rare earth magnet which made mounting it very easy . The problem was , it was impacting the magnetic compass - so be aware if you get a magnetic mount to make sure your compass is not affected by it being placed in the cockpit ! When attached to the overhead speaker we saw no visible impact on the compass , but worth keeping an eye on . Take a look on youtube at some popular pilot channels to see how they record . From there , you can pick your favorite angles and splice a film together .
You ca n't get real-time data from the FAA without an operational need , and organizations which do receive real-time data can not legally re-distribute this data publicly , except to other organizations approved by the FAA . An operational need pretty much means you have to be a flight dispatcher for an airline or commercial operator , not just have an interest in tracking flights . You can get some real-time data from your local area using an ADS-B receiver . See this question for more information : <URL> . If you are okay with the five minute delay , then <URL> you might consider . The direct feed from the FAA is called <URL> and I believe you can apply for the delayed feed , though I 've never gone through the process , and the government 's site is very sparse in information . I would suggest contacting them before attempting to apply if it 's something you 're interested in .
If you 're asking whether you can pay for one with an HSA or FSA , then yes , <URL> , though consult with your insurance provider first if they are covered by your plan . Physical Examination You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay for an annual physical examination and diagnostic tests by a physician . You do not have to be ill at the time of the examination . If you 're looking to add it to a list of itemized deductions , as Pondlife explained , it generally has to be <URL> . If you are a professional pilot , then this is deductible . What Can I Deduct ? To be deductible , a business expense must be both ordinary and necessary . An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in your industry . A necessary expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your trade or business . An expense does not have to be indispensable to be considered necessary .
In the US , there are 2 ways to become a certificated civilian pilot : <URL> and <URL> . Part 61 is done in informal classes and flights at a local flight school . Part 141 is a professional pilot training program , with uniforms , classrooms , a full-time staff , and a uniform fleet of aircraft . There are numerous US universities that offer bachelors ' degrees using a part 141 program . You can find <URL> . Furthermore , many of these schools , such as <URL> , take the <URL> , which is the process for obtaining financial aid as for any other program . After graduating from one of these programs , you will have obtained all the training necessary to work as a flight instructor , or as a commercial pilot under <URL> Private Pilot Single Engine Instrument Pilot Single and Multi-Engine Commercial Pilot Single and Multi-Engine Flight Instructor Single Engine Flight Instructor Instrument Multi-Engine Flight Instructor You will have also earned either an Associates or Bachelors degree , usually in something like Aviation Engineering or Aviation Operations . You will not , however , have flown enough hours to get a job flying air taxi or cargo under <URL> , which requires 500 hours to be the pilot-in-command .
Ultralights are regulated under <URL> and there are very few regulations of any kind that apply to them . The only specific lighting requirement is in <URL> : § 103.11 Daylight operations . ( a ) No person may operate an ultralight vehicle except between the hours of sunrise and sunset . ( b ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of this section , ultralight vehicles may be operated during the twilight periods 30 minutes before official sunrise and 30 minutes after official sunset or , in Alaska , during the period of civil twilight as defined in the Air Almanac , if : ( 1 ) The vehicle is equipped with an operating anticollision light visible for at least 3 statute miles ; and ( 2 ) All operations are conducted in uncontrolled airspace . <URL> and <URL> have some information about what an anticollision light actually is ( a beacon and/or strobe ) , but since ultralights are so lightly regulated I 'd be surprised if anyone cares much about the exact form of lighting . However , you could check with your local EAA chapter or ultralight club to see what people typically use .
As you 've mentioned , your tolerance will build up over time so a simple , partial answer is to be patient and fly in small doses . Two 20 minute flights with a break between is much much better than a single hour long flight . You 'll learn more , stay focused , and acclimate faster . Try not to move your head much during maneuvers . For a loop , I typically look at my left wing tip until I 'm about 3/8 's through the loop , then I transition to looking " up " to catch the horizon as I approach the top of the loop . Any more movement than that might be a problem . Bill Thomas 's classic book <URL> describes where to look for many of the basic maneuvers .
Transport Canada has all the information <URL> for each FAA license type ( and type ratings ) ; the necessary forms and contacts are <URL> . These are the basic requirements for a private pilot , for example : 6.1 Conditions for Conversion - Private Pilot -- Aeroplane . ( 1 ) Must hold an FAA Private airman certificate with airplane category and class rating ( s ) . ( 1 ) Age : Must be at least 17 years of age . ( 2 ) Medical fitness : Must hold either a Category 1 or Category 3 TCCA medical . ( 3 ) Knowledge : Must pass the Conversion - Private Pilot Licence -- Aeroplane , ( FAAPA ) written examination on air laws and communications . Must be able to read , write and communicate in English or French . ( 4 ) Experience : Must provide proof of a minimum of 45 hours pilot flight time . ( 5 ) Skill : No additional practical flight test is required .
In short : Yes , you can . The FAA does n't really care , as long as you 're not going to interrupt class B or C operations . And honestly as long as you 're not hosting a dozen other aircraft , how are they going to tell the difference between a field and an airstrip ? If you want it on a chart or you are near special airspace , you need to contact the FSDO and talk to them about it ( it 's good to do that anyway ) . They will send someone out to survey it and talk with you , and hopefully approve it . It 's the local authorities that usually ends up being troublesome . Your state/county/city might have laws that apply , and you 'll need to find that out on your own . A friend of mine spent just a few days talking/meeting with the FAA on his strip , but spent weeks dealing with the state transportation department and a local ban on new grass strips which he sat right on the border of ( as in it was a ban in a 50 mile radius and his house was on mile 50 ) . Persistence is key , good luck !
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
This is heavily dependent on the local jurisdictions you plan to operate in and what their laws are . First off you must find out if your desired countries of operation accept foreign certificates . This varies heavily all over the world and can range from full no questions asked acceptance , to you needing to simply take the test again ( in that country ) through any various case you can think of . Second you need to find out what certificate you need . Here in the US to give rides ( and receive compensation for such ) you need a commercial certificate . This looks like it <URL> . Hours . The FAA requires a few more hours than the Canadian certificate will , <URL> Are at least 16 years of age ; and Have logged at least 10 hours of flight time in a glider and that flight time must include at least 20 total glider flights , and Have 2 hours of solo flight time in a glider , and Have passed the FAA written examination ; and Have passed the flight exam with a FAA Examiner . <URL> A minimum of 6 hours of flight training under the direction and supervision of an instructor At least 2 hours of solo flight time , including a minimum of 20 takeoffs and 20 landings Right off the bad Canada requires 4 less hours which , no matter how you spin it will be cheaper ( since you have to pay for less time ) . Here is the US if you are not a citizen you will need to pass an NTSB background check to train . I do not know if Canada has a similar requirement . Travel , assuming you are in the Caribbean already it may be cheaper to travel to Florida ( or the like ) to train then go all the way up to Canada for your training . Edit : According to this document the ECCAA does issue glider ratings <URL> ( a ) The Authority may issue the following ratings for pilots ( i ) Category ratings in the following aircraft : ( a ) Aeroplane ; ( b ) Rotorcraft ; ( c ) Glider ; ( d ) Lighter-than-air ; ( e ) Power lift .
Yes . <URL> ( n ) Limitations on student pilots operating an aircraft in solo flight . A student pilot may not operate an aircraft in solo flight unless that student pilot has received : ( 1 ) An endorsement from an authorized instructor on his or her student pilot certificate for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown ; and ( 2 ) An endorsement in the student 's logbook for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown by an authorized instructor , who gave the training within the 90 days preceding the date of the flight . <URL> ( a ) Operations requiring a medical certificate . Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) and ( c ) of this section , a person -- ... ( 3 ) Must hold at least a third-class medical certificate -- ( i ) When exercising the privileges of a private pilot certificate ; ( ii ) When exercising the privileges of a recreational pilot certificate ; ( iii ) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate ; The student pilot only needs a student pilot certificate and medical when operating in solo flight . With that said , if there is any doubt that a medical certificate wo n't be granted it is a good idea to get that out of the way before spending money on flight training you will never be able to use .
For <URL> NOTAMs , you can find it via <URL> , in either map or text format . If an SUA on a chart has defined hours , stick to those . Example after downloading the text data : <URL> Map example ( layer control is useful ) : <URL> Color indicates if active or scheduled and how far in the future .
Long story short is that the manufacturers instructions take precedence over all . <URL> requires that at each annual and 100 hr the compression be checked and that if there is " weak " compression further inspection of condition and tolerances of the engine have to be made . Now the term " weak " is kind of broad . <URL> states : If a cylinder has less than a 60/80 reading on the differential test gauges on a hot engine , and procedures in paragraphs 8-14b ( 5 ) ( i ) and ( j ) fail to raise the compression reading , the cylinder must be removed and inspected . However , it also states : This advisory circular ( AC ) contains methods , techniques , and practices acceptable to the Administrator for the inspection and repair of nonpressurized areas of civil aircraft , only when there are no manufacturer repair or maintenance instructions . So the gist of it seems to be that if the compression is below 60/80 on a hot engine IN GENERAL , then yes it needs to be removed and inspected , UNLESS the manufacturers instructions state otherwise . Keep in mind Advisory Circulars are guidelines and not regulatory in nature although they are usually used as best practice guides . There is a great AVweb article <URL> that has more in depth analysis .
Nope . Your solo time must be done <URL> ( the FAA does n't come out and say it in those words , but that 's what the " aeronautical experience " requirements basically boil down to ) . You must also pass a <URL> and receive instruction in the particular make and model of aircraft you will be solo-ing in ( the second of which is impossible in an ultralight : You can not receive dual instruction in that aircraft as by regulation it can only have one seat ) . As you do n't need a pilot certificate to fly an ultralight you could just get one , get some basic instruction on flying it ( from someone who has flown them before ) , and go fly . <URL> thanks to modern materials and construction techniques . Your private pilot training &amp; solo experience would be helpful in flying certain types of ultralight aircraft , but it 's not required as long as you abide by the regulations applicable to ultralights . Similarly experience in the more " airplane-like " ultralights may help you out in the rest of your private pilot training , but that experience is n't required ( and not really " loggable " toward your training , through you can put it in your logbook if you wish -- just log the time as " Ultralight Flying " or something similar . )
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
end question
start question
Do all Class B and Class C towers operate 24/7 ?
The short answer is no . It 's easy to find examples of class C towers that are n't 24/7 , by checking in the <URL> . Two examples are <URL> ( as <URL> in the comments ) which operates 1130-0500Z and <URL> , which operates 1200-0600Z . Note that the airspace changes when the tower is closed : KXNA becomes class G , and KHSV becomes class E . As for class B , I would also assume that they 're 24/7 . I checked a few ( KATL , KBOS , KSEA ) in the Chart Supplement and they are indeed 24/7 but I do n't feel like checking them all :-)
In theory you might be able to make an estimate , but practically speaking it 's impossible and a lot easier to just look at a sectional chart . The FAA has a <URL> on obstacle lighting standards , which usually applies to structures over 200ft in height but there 's a lot of possible variation : Recommendations on marking and/or lighting structures can vary depending on terrain features , weather patterns , geographic location , and in the case of wind turbines , number of structures and overall layout of design . The actual number of lights and their placement depends on the type and size of the structure . Appendix 1 of the FAA guide has examples for water towers , radio masts , cooling stacks , bridges , chimneys etc. . The vertical light spacing seems to vary from 250-375ft , depending on the structure type , but I did n't go through it systematically . So if you have plenty of time you might be able to determine the approximate height of a structure by comparing its lighting layout to the guide and estimating based on that , but that 's very unlikely to give you an accurate number . For a pilot in flight or planning a flight , that is n't safe or practical and the simple solution is to just <URL> to get the height . For example , this tower is 1094ft high and the top is at 1994ft above sea level ( so the ground level is 900ft above sea level at that location ) :
The main problem with most jet airliners is that the engines are placed close to the ground . If the field is not paved , this increases the risk of damage to the engines from ingesting FOD ( foreign object debris ) . There are , however , jets that can operate from un-paved fields . The 737-200 has an option called a " <URL> . " Despite having engines close to the ground , this kit helps to prevent the engine from sucking in FOD , which allows the aircraft to operate off of gravel runways . It also includes an addition to the nose gear to help prevent gravel from getting kicked up . For this reason , airlines like Canadian North still operate multiple 737-200 aircraft in order to provide service to airports with gravel runways . High-wing aircraft are better suited for this type of mission ( see <URL> ) . The <URL> is a military airlift designed to operate from remote airfields . Its wings are placed above the fuselage rather than below , which allows the engines to be mounted further above the ground . The IL-76 is a Russian aircraft of a similar configuration that also operates out of unpaved fields . Aircraft with engines mounted on the rear fuselage also protect the engines from ingesting FOD . The new <URL> jet advertises the ability to operate from unpaved strips . Older aircraft like the 727 or the Tu-154 have this engine placement as well , and both can operate from unpaved fields . 737-200 landing on a gravel runway . The gravel kit is visible as the small extension just below the front of the engine , and the addition to the rear of the nose gear .
<URL> Source : FAA VFR chart . The magenta dashed is from surface , the magenta gradient is from 700 ft. AGL , and the blue gradient from 1200 ft. AGL .
I got the answer . ' C ' is commercial , ' G ' general aviation , ' T ' taxi , etc. . Update : <URL> , under section " Type of flight " , it lists S if scheduled air service N if nonscheduled air transport operation G if general aviation M if military X if other than any of the defined categories above . But types C and T is n't there .
There is no all-encompassing list of ' banned ' medications publically available for Australia . In the regulations there is a ' catch all ' to the effect of " pilots must not take any medications which may inhibit their ability to fly safely " . If you want specific advice on a specific medication , why not give CASA a call ? That or you can see a DAME ( which is a GP qualified to do aviation medical assessments ) . What you can find out there is general advice though . Although questions such as <URL> and <URL> refer to the US system , the Australian restrictions are not too dissimilar . Broardly speaking , Ritalin and other ' depressants ' are incompatible with flying . Bi-polar disorder faces many restrictions but stable depression is manageable . I did hear somewhere that you need to be off antidepressants for 12 months though . Diabetes and blood thinning medications are OK but subject to regular testing and scrutiny . As an aside , sometimes CASA , instead of outright refusing the medical , will place restrictions on it instead . This can be things like you must fly by day VFR only , or you can only fly with a qualified pilot next to you . EDIT : I found <URL> which has a list of medications to stay away from . It 's not exhaustive but it 's a start
Lets back up a minute and discuss what is required to enter C and D airspace . For C and D airspace you must establish 2 way radio communications with tower or approach controller . Let 's first discuss how this works if you are not taking Flight Following . As you approach Class C airspace you hail them and wait for a response , for example , You : " Allentown Approach Piper 1234J @ 3000 en route to Queen City Municipal " Controller : " 1234J Squawk 1-3-5-2 and Ident " Since the controller responded with your tail number you may enter the Charlie airspace ( Delta has the same requirements ) . Now when you are under Flight Following , ATC will coordinate a handoff to the Approach or Tower for the airspace you are about to enter , or ATC will say " radar services terminated , " and you must contact the controller/tower yourself before entering . You SHOULD NOT change frequencies until you are told to do so , since ATC may be trying to give you a traffic advisory . You can however tune your second radio ( if you have one ) to the approach/tower you are approaching , and begin to monitor traffic .
As with any flight , " It 's as safe as you make it " . The vast majority of the General Aviation fleet ( piston singles ) do n't even have an autopilot , and the ones that do may only be single-axis units ( wing levelers ) , so the pilot has to have some level of attention on flying the airplane . If we assume these are the folks flying around VFR we can also generally assume they should be looking out the window the vast majority of the time ( like Skip said , <URL> ) Adding to that , " See and avoid " is every pilot 's responsibility in VMC - whether operating under Visual Flight Rules or Instrument Flight Rules - if you can see , you are expected to avoid ( and if necessary deal with ATC freaking out about you deviating from a clearance later ) . A number of other steps have been taken to enhance safety in Class D and E airspace : In the US <URL> prescribes specific VFR cruising altitudes , and <URL> is the IFR equivalent . The cruising altitudes in these regulations result in an automatic 500-foot vertical separation of VFR and IFR traffic ( at least between 3,000 feet MSL and 18,000 feet MSL - which is where VFR and IFR traffic are likely to be mixing in cruise . ) . Additionally IFR traffic is usually receiving radar separation services ( there are some non-radar areas in the US , but not many ) . Nominally this separation is " IFR-to-IFR " in Class E airspace , but if a controller sees a VFR target squawking 1200 and behaving unpredictably they can vector IFR traffic around it . Similarly if a controller sees a " primary target only " ( something without a transponder , and not reporting altitude information ) they will often vector IFR traffic around it until they can establish what it is and what it 's doing . Within class D airspace the level of service you 'll get depends somewhat on the equipment the controllers have . A " purely visual " tower with no radar can only give traffic advisories for aircraft they can see by looking out their window , but if they see an conflict they 're going to say something . A tower with radar ( either local or slaved from a nearby airport ) may give give VFR-to-VFR or VFR-to-IFR separation advisories based on that data as well , sometimes including advisories to aircraft inbound who are outside their airspace .
Essentially they plan on some fraction of the fleet undergoing some sort of maintenance check at any one time , so they build their flying schedule around the remaining fraction . And then there is some amount of flex due to things needing unscheduled maintenance or coming out of maintenance early . What makes the task easier is the fact that maintenance needs can be forecast fairly far in advance , and so the schedules can be built around a knowledge of how many aircraft are likely to be available . As an illustration ( not necessarily representative of any particular airline 's actual numbers ) , let 's say you have a fleet of 200 aircraft , and you know that on average each aircraft will be down for two 2-week heavy maintenance checks each year . That works out to essentially one month out of 12 , each aircraft is down , or a little under 10 % of the time . Add in a little time for shorter maintenance visits ( but still longer than an overnight ) , plus an allowance for the fact that some aircraft just need unscheduled work , and the maintenance planners may end up telling you to plan on 175 aircraft available each day . So that 's what you build your schedule around . Now let 's say that one aircraft takes a birdstrike &amp; an engine needs to be changed . That is now a hole in the schedule . It can be covered by cancelling a flight ( undesirable , but always an option ) . If an aircraft is finished with maintenance ahead of schedule ( say it was scheduled down all day for some work , but the work is actually done by noon ) , that aircraft may be able to be put into service . Perhaps it 's possible to delay some sort of minor maintenance a day ( not a heavy check , but something quicker ) and essentially create one aircraft-day of capacity , and push the check off to a weekend day when the schedule uses fewer aircraft . Or maybe the schedule was built with one or two aircraft available as spares that day . Depending on a variety of factors , spares may or may not be available , or even deliberately built into the schedule at all . Having an A-380 sitting around unused all day is an EXPENSIVE insurance policy against something unforeseen happening , but cancelling a flight on something that big is an expensive event when it happens ! If you operate all out of one giant hub and you know that your fleet of 500 aircraft ( flying 450 lines every day ) is likely to have 2-4 aircraft every day go to the hanger for unexpected maintenance , it 's probably a good financial decision to allocate two or three of those lines as dedicated spares . If your aircraft operate a point-to-point schedule , it 's harder ( or unfeasible ) to keep a spare aircraft at every airport you serve , " just in case " something happens to break there . There are complicated decisions that airlines will continuously evaluate to find what balance works best for their particular operation . In some cases , it may be possible to substitute an aircraft from a different fleet for a broken jet ... an MD80 goes to the hanger , and a 737 with a reserve crew flies the rest of the day that the MD80 would have flown . Or maybe a 757 broke , and the decision is to use the 737 to cover the flight , and re-accommodate the extra passengers that the 757 could hold that the 737 now ca n't . That 's a tactical decision that the airline 's operations center will make , considering the availability of both aircraft and crews , as well as the passenger loads . ( They also may pull a " healthy " 757 off of its less full schedule to fly in place of the broke 757 , use a 737 that was n't going to be very full to cover that 757 's route , put an RJ on the 737 's route that day , and cancel the RJ 's flights " due to maintenance . " And if that inconveniences 4 flights of 40-50 people who mostly just get delayed a few hours , that 's probably a better plan than stranding two flights of 200 people who 'd otherwise have no way to get where they 're going until tomorrow or later . )
FR24 relies for most of the tracks on ADS-B data . Part of the ADS-B transmissions is the position . There are three causes of the behaviour that you observe : 1 ) . Aircraft landing next to the runway The position source onboard the aircraft is not always GPS . Mainly older aircraft ( e.g. Fokker 100 ) have their Inertial Navigation System ( INS ) coupled to the ADS-B transmitter . The INS relies not on external radio measurements but only on measured acceleration and rotation to track its position . It is usually correct at take-off , but it develops biases over time and therefore the landing appears quite often next to the runway . I can assure you that this is mostly misleading . 2 ) . Short time track offset In most aircraft the ADS-B position is from GPS . When the GPS loses its position fix , the system falls back to INS . As described above , the INS position is slowing drifting from the truth during the flight , so the ADS-B track will shortly jump aside to the INS position until the GPS comes back . When short ( e.g. 1 position update ) the offsets appear as spikes . 3 ) . Long distance jumps ( 180 NM , 360 NM ) Due to the limited number of bits available in the ADS-B messages , position is encoded in a complex format called Compact Position Reporting . It requires at least two position messages to decode the first position of a track , from that point onward , every message will constitute a position update . When no proper verification algorithms are used in the software , it may occur that a receiver station initializes the track wrongly , usually causing a jump of 180 or 360 NM . Also note : When INS is used a the position source , the ADS-B data contains an indication that the data is not to be trusted , but that is silently ignored by FR24 .
i passed my medical exam and it was good , this issue was n't a big problem at all even its not a problem .
Since you have your private , the LSA just has to be approved . According to the <URL> which covers LSA certification : ( 5 ) This aircraft is to be operated under VFR , day only , unless appropriately equipped for night and/or instrument flight in accordance with 14 CFR § 91.205 , and when allowed by the manufacturer 's operating instructions . So it must be properly equipped ( see below ) AND allowed by the manufacturer 's operating instructions . You will need to check this with each manufacturer to see if they certified it for night flight . <URL> says day VFR instruments ( paragraph b ) plus : ( c ) Visual flight rules ( night ) . For VFR flight at night , the following instruments and equipment are required : ( 1 ) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section . ( 2 ) Approved position lights . ( 3 ) An approved aviation red or aviation white anticollision light system on all U.S.-registered civil aircraft . Anticollision light systems initially installed after August 11 , 1971 , on aircraft for which a type certificate was issued or applied for before August 11 , 1971 , must at least meet the anticollision light standards of part 23 , 25 , 27 , or 29 of this chapter , as applicable , that were in effect on August 10 , 1971 , except that the color may be either aviation red or aviation white . In the event of failure of any light of the anticollision light system , operations with the aircraft may be continued to a stop where repairs or replacement can be made . ( 4 ) If the aircraft is operated for hire , one electric landing light . ( 5 ) An adequate source of electrical energy for all installed electrical and radio equipment . ( 6 ) One spare set of fuses , or three spare fuses of each kind required , that are accessible to the pilot in flight .
Short answer : ILS is rather sensitive to interference and not all electronic devices take much precaution in avoiding the generation of interference . The pilot wants to be sure that the readings he 's getting on the localizer and glideslope are accurate , since he ca n't actually see the runway to verify the final approach path visually . Longer answer : ILS is actually relatively simplistic as RF signals go . Both the localizer and the glideslope just consist of a pair of AM signals that are broadcast directionally . For both systems , the modulated frequencies are 90 Hz and 150 Hz . For the localizer , 90 Hz is broadcast to the left of the runway centerline and 150 Hz is broadcast to the right of the centerline . When the aircraft is aligned with the runway , it will receive equal strength signals of both frequencies . When it 's to the right , it will receive more power from the 150 Hz signal and when it 's to the left , it will receive more power from the 90 Hz signal . The glideslope works pretty much the same way , just with the 150 Hz signal transmitted below the glide path and the 90 Hz signal transmitted above it . <URL> <URL> Now , suppose some passenger 's electronic device is emitting a frequency that it should n't be . This is not exactly unheard of among consumer electronic devices . This is more common among devices manufactured in countries with less-strict emissions testing requirements/enforcement , but it 's possible due to slight defects in almost any device . [ Source : I design RF receivers for a living . ] Now suppose that this noise happens to be on the localizer or glideslope frequency for the runway to which the aircraft is flying an approach . Hopefully you 're starting to see a problem here ... Whatever amplitude changes are happening on this unintended emission are now being received by the AM demodulator of the localizer or glideslope , potentially confusing it and , in low visibility conditions , causing the aircraft to be directed somewhere other than the runway threshold . <URL> <URL> in order to detect erroneous ILS readings : Crosschecking altitude and DME distance periodically . Crosschecking altitude and flight management system ( FMS ) threshold distance . Crosschecking altitude and the crossing altitude of the outer marker ( or locator , very-high-frequency omnirange [ VOR ] navigation equipment , or FMS ) . Crosschecking radio altitude and barometric altitude . Crosschecking ground speed and rate of descent . Questioning air traffic controllers when indications do not appear to be correct . However , even when following those instructions , slightly erroneous ILS signals may be hard to detect until too late . If a DME is showing that you 're half a mile off , you can probably notice that , but a couple hundred feet off might not be noticeable ( but is still plenty to be a big problem . )
Are there any alternate instruments to indicate the airspeed From <URL> : Reliable Sources of Information The following information sources , independent of the pitot static systems , can provide reliable information for situational awareness : rpm , and fuel flow , for engine thrust indication ( not EPR , which may be unreliable ) ; Pitch and bank display ; FPV ( Flight Path Vector ) if available and derived from inertial and not barometric sources ; Radio height when below 2500ft agl ; EGPWS Stick Shaker - may not always be activated but if it is , it is independently reliable ; Navigation systems can provide ground speed and position information ( GPS can also provide altitude information ) ; Radio navigation aids and RNAV . ATC , in a radar or ADS-B environment , can provide aircraft ground speed . If TAS can be determined , a rough approximation of IAS at altitude can be calculated by the fomula : IAS = TAS -- ( FL ÷ 2 ) eg 400TAS FL300 = 250IAS . Note : Some aircraft systems are configured , as a safety measure , such that stick shakers and pushers will not operate if there is disagreement between systems . Thus , if the aircraft approaches and/or enters a stall , these safety features might not activate . However , if the stick shaker does activate , it should , in the absence of clear contrary indications , be believed .
First you need a wing that is representative of a flightworthy article . Next , you need to collect the significant load cases . The most obvious one is that of maximum lift , but sometimes wings have failed even when they were strong enough to support the maximum bending moment . Torsion from aileron deflections and flutter are important , as is the in-plane bending moment from lift at high angle of attack . Normally , the wing is <URL> and computer-controlled hydraulic jacks are used to pull on it , but this can be made much simpler . Below you see the ultimate strength test on the <URL> wing : Discarded soda bottles were collected , filled with a pre-calculated amount of water and hung from the main spar while the center of the inverted wing was lifted up by a forklift . <URL> Load test on Dedalus wing . Yes , the guy with the Dedalus shirt is <URL> . Own work . Besides the maximum strength tests , fatigue tests are of equal importance . Here a statistical load distribution ( frequent low loads , infrequent high loads ) is applied to the wing over thousands of hours . These tests stretch into the early operational phase of a design , such that the structure is cleared for more hours as the test progresses .
If I 'm flying along in my C-152 and I am trying to go in a straight line through the " center " of C airspace , but the controller tells me to remain clear , what should I do ? Well , the obvious answer is remain clear of the Class C airspace :-) HOW you remain clear is entirely up to you - you can go over , under , or around - you just ca n't go through , and I think that 's the more interesting part of your question . Flying around the class C airspace is usually a safe choice ( do n't skim along the margins though - give it some reasonable breathing room ) , but as you 've noted it could add a lot of time/fuel . You need to balance that with the time/fuel required to climb above the airspace , or the risks of flying under the airspace ( mainly obstacles ) to make your decision . I 'm going to use my local class C airspace as an example for an exercise in aeronautical decision making because conveniently there 's a VOR you could hypothetically be circling while talking to approach , and an airport on the other side you might want to get to . In our hypothetical example let 's say you 're circling Deer Park VOR ( ) at 2500 feet , and you want to cut through the Class C airspace to get to Brookhaven ( ) , but approach is n't cooperating . <URL> I 've got three options sketched out here - think about them , then hover over the spoiler boxes for my thinking on each of the three routes : The dashed line through the center ( the route you were hoping Approach would give you ) . A straight line is the shortest distance between two points , but this straight line stinks : Since Approach would n't let you go through the class C airspace you 're going to have to spiral-climb to 4200 feet or higher ( 5500 feet if you 're playing by the hemispheric rule ) , and then when you get to the cut-out in the class C on the other side you 're going to have to dive down to get to pattern altitude . That does n't seem safe , nor efficient to me , so let 's toss that idea out the window . The northern route under the class C airspace . Simple enough , we 'll split the difference between the ground ( roughly sea level ) and the floor of the airspace ( 1500 feet ) and fly under the shelf at 1250 feet . Plenty of room above and below ( if your altimeter is set right and you 're any kind of decent pilot ) . So this is the part where I confess that I 'm a big ol' wuss and do n't like to be close to the ground . It 's like a porcupine , but with radio towers for quills ( like the one I marked with a big OUCH - at 1250 feet there 'd be less than 500 feet between my landing gear and the top of that tower ) . I 'm not happy with the obstacle clearance on this route ( and while I could certainly rearrange the line a bit to avoid the obstacles I 'm not going to because they serve my purpose ) -- the northern route is out . The southern route under the class C airspace . Same idea as the northern route - descend to 1250 feet and fly under the shelf , but I like this route a whole lot better . There are really great landmarks here ( " Fly southeast toward the looped road , then go to the middle of the bay and stay between the two shore lines until you pass the bridge at Smith Point . At that point you 'll see the airport off your left wing and can maneuver to enter the pattern . " ) You 're also over water , and we do n't tend to have any radio towers sticking up out of the bay . You 'll need to watch out for traffic from Bayport , students practicing ground-reference maneuvers , and banner-tow planes in the summer , but that 's just your basic everyday VFR " See and Avoid " situation . This is probably the route I 'd pick .
There 's a book called " The Killing Zone - How and Why Pilots Die " by Paul A. Craig which has a great deal of statistical work in it around aircraft accidents which may be useful to you . It 's an alarming title which might make you think it 's some sort of sky is falling mentality , but it 's actually very sensible , statistics-based information about aviation accidents .
In general , no , you ca n't . Public ( Governmental ) Use The FAA maintains a page on <URL> . There are a couple of ways governmental organizations ( excluding the armed forces ) can fly a UAS : It can fly in accordance with the limitations set out in <URL> , which are that the FAA will : ( C ) allow a government public safety agency to operate unmanned aircraft weighing 4.4 pounds or less , if operated -- ( i ) within the line of sight of the operator ; ( ii ) less than 400 feet above the ground ; ( iii ) during daylight conditions ; ( iv ) within Class G airspace ; and ( v ) outside of 5 statute miles from any airport , heliport , seaplane base , spaceport , or other location with aviation activities . So , obviously , that 's a no-go for Bravo . It can apply for a <URL> from the FAA , which <URL> , The FAA works with these organizations to develop conditions and limitations for UAS operations to ensure they do not jeopardize the safety of other aviation operations . The objective is to issue a COA with parameters that ensure a level of safety equivalent to manned aircraft . Usually , this entails making sure that the UAS does not operate in a populated area and that the aircraft is observed , either by someone in a manned aircraft or someone on the ground to ensure separation from other aircraft in accordance with right-of-way rules . Common public uses today include law enforcement , firefighting , border patrol , disaster relief , search and rescue , military training , and other government operational missions . So , unless you have a really convincing argument , it sounds like the FAA is very unlikely to include in your COA authorization for your UAS to enter Class B ( or get anywhere near it , for that matter . ) Civil , Non-Hobbyist Operation The FAA also maintains a page on <URL> . That page summarizes how civil UAS operations can be approved as follows : There are presently two methods of gaining FAA authorization to fly civil ( non-governmental ) UAS : <URL> -- a grant of exemption in accordance with Section 333 AND a civil Certificate of Waiver or Authorization ( COA ) ; this process may be used to perform commercial operations in low-risk , controlled environments . Instructions for filing a petition for exemption are available <URL> . Surely , operating in Class B is n't " low risk " ( though I suppose you could argue it 's " controlled , " ) so this certainly seems like a no-go . <URL> -- applicants must be able to describe how their system is designed , constructed , and manufactured , including engineering processes , software development and control , configuration management , and quality assurance procedures used , along with how and where they intend to fly . a . <URL> -- may be used for civil aircraft to perform research and development , crew training , and market surveys ; however , carrying persons or property for compensation or hire is prohibited . <URL> is used by FAA inspectors to issue experimental airworthiness certificates and special flight permits to UAS . For more information , please contact the Airworthiness Certification Service , AIR-113 , at 202-267-1575 . If the FAA determines the project does not present an unreasonable safety risk , the local FAA Manufacturing Inspection District Office will issue a Special Airworthiness Certificate in the Experimental Category with operating limitations applicable to the particular UAS . b . A UAS <URL> ( 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 2 ) and § 21.185 ) for a special purpose or a type certificate for production of the UAS under 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 1 ) or § 21.17 . For more information , please contact the Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office at 562-627-5200 . ( Bold emphasis is mine , italics emphasis is from the FAA . ) For UASs with a Special Airworthiness Certificate , <URL> specifies in Chapter 3 , Section 1.3 ( Flight Test and Operating Area ) that : All proposed flight test and operating areas outside of restricted airspace must be approved by the FAA . Flight test and operating areas will be coordinated with the air traffic component of AFS-80 . and that : The flight test area and operating area must be over open water , or sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic . The FAA is required to evaluate each application to determine that the proposed flight area does not exceed that which is reasonably required to accomplish the program . Certainly , Class B does n't qualify as " sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic , " so this , too , seems to be a no-go .
You did n't specify the jurisdiction that you were asking about , but in the US there is a regulation that covers the minimum that you must do before flying . Much of it is common sense : You want to check the weather , because it can impact you much more than it usually does in your car and you do n't want to get stuck in a really bad situation . You want to check the Notices to Airmen ( NOTAMs ) to make sure that you can use the airport ( i.e. it is n't closed , or the runway is n't closed , etc. ) You want to make sure that you have enough fuel , because you ca n't just pull over at the nearest gas station when you get low . You want to make sure that the runways are long enough and that the airplane can climb well enough so that you do n't crash into something . That being said , if you are familiar with the area and the airports in the area , you have used them before and are already familiar with the performance numbers for your airplane , then you do n't really need to do much more than check the weather/NOTAMs and make sure that your airplane is legal and safe to fly . Things are a little different than back in the barnstorming days , but then there are fewer accidents too . :-) <URL> Each pilot in command shall , before beginning a flight , become familiar with all available information concerning that flight . This information must include -- ( a ) For a flight under IFR or a flight not in the vicinity of an airport , weather reports and forecasts , fuel requirements , alternatives available if the planned flight can not be completed , and any known traffic delays of which the pilot in command has been advised by ATC ; ( b ) For any flight , runway lengths at airports of intended use , and the following takeoff and landing distance information : ( 1 ) For civil aircraft for which an approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual containing takeoff and landing distance data is required , the takeoff and landing distance data contained therein ; and ( 2 ) For civil aircraft other than those specified in paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this section , other reliable information appropriate to the aircraft , relating to aircraft performance under expected values of airport elevation and runway slope , aircraft gross weight , and wind and temperature .
The <URL> : 3-2-5 . Class D Airspace 4 . Departures from : ( a ) A primary or satellite airport with an operating control tower . Two‐way radio communications must be established and maintained with the control tower , and thereafter as instructed by ATC while operating in the Class D airspace . [ emphasis mine ] While operating in Class D airspace , you must maintain two-way radio contact with the tower -- monitor the frequency and be prepared to respond . You may leave the frequency once you are either clear of the airspace , or receive instructions to that end from ATC ( " N1234 , frequency change approved " ) . Whether or not controllers are bothered by you letting them know that you 've left , I ca n't say , but it would probably qualify as frequency congestion . If they want to get in touch with you , they 'll try ( " N1234 , are you still with me ? " ) , but once you 're outside the Class D airspace they 're generally only providing advisory information .
end question
start question
How does turbojet thrust change with altitude ?
The thrust variation with altitude would be highly engine specific , but the general trend is nicely depicted in the image below : <URL> this for further details .
For one , do n't only look at the engine , but at the whole propulsion system . This includes tanks , piping , controls , pumps and the actual engine . Now the rocket looks much less favorable , especially if you size the tanks for equal running times . The rocket does not need any of the parts which are ahead of the combustion chamber of a jet and also does not need the turbine . Also , being designed for full thrust only , it does not need an adjustable nozzle . Please look below at the engine installation of a typical airliner ( I tried but could not find a fitting cross section of a turbojet plus intake ) : <URL> Jet engine and nacelle cutaway drawing ( picture <URL> ) Only the part labeled " combustor " and the section aft of the turbine are actually comparable to a rocket engine - all else is needed to condition and compress air or drive the turbo machinery in front . A rocket enjoys the luxury of being fed propellant and oxidizer at just the right ratio , condition and at high pressure , and since the oxidizer is mostly pure liquid oxygen , the turbo pumps for compressing it can be much smaller than the turbo machinery of a jet which works with an 80 % nitrogen - 20 % oxygen mixture of gasses .
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
Could you create an aircraft using an jet engine/propeller/ducted fan on a gimbal ? Sure you ' could ' ; it is feasible by the laws of physics . But just because you can does not mean that you should . Setting up multiple points of lift on a manned aircraft seems like a good idea with a lot of advantages but is a Pandora 's Box of problems , the not the least of which is the grave risks of single point failure . Lift and control is totally reliant on balanced lift between multiple engines . Lose one engine and the craft departs from controlled flight and crashes . You better hope you have an ejection seat and/or parachute on board . Some solutions to these problems come in the form tiltrotor designs like the Agusta Westland 609 and the V-22 . But these aircraft have multiple redundancies in their design including a common transmission system between the rotors ; in case of a single engine failure , the good engine has enough power to drive both rotors . Tiltrotors can also glide like regular airplanes and utilize control surfaces during this and cruise flight . As a final note : Be careful in putting too much faith in Musk and other Silicon Valley whiz kids speculating about other design endeavors . The skills required to run a successful software company are often very different from that required to develop other artifacts like aircraft and automobiles , etc. . Musk was a genius with PayPal but nearly went bankrupt starting an electric car company and his development work with SpaceX has been punctuated with a series of spectacular failures . He also quietly withdrew from his proposed ' Hyperloop ' project , I suspect , because he really did n't understand what he was getting into there .
From a legal standpoint English is not only the official language of aviation but you must be " <URL> " to legally fly at least here in the US . This is both an <URL> requirement these days . Although what happens when a repeat is needed has been covered in other answers it should be noted that accents should not stand in the way of communications and you may , depending on your case be required to have an " English Proficient " endorsement on your license . In reality there should never be a pronunciation issue ( but we live in a far from perfect world ) Here is the full ICAO chart of grading , <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> on the dangers of language differences in aviation accidents . As for the fact that some aircraft radios garble signals and do n't help in transmitting marginally acceptable audio all while in a plane with near defining engine noise ; that is a whole separate question ...
You ask about Jeppesen in the title , but you mention ICAO in the body . Does Jeppesen show top altitude ? Yes . <URL> Top image is FAA chart , bottom is Jeppesen . Both for the LOOP SID . Does ICAO show top altitude ? The ICAO charts are produced by <URL> based on ICAO 's style if they do n't have their own . The FAA has its own format . But the answer is also yes if the top altitude is used . The top altitude was added for the climb-via instruction , which is a recent addition . Not all states ( nations ) follow the climb-via and descend-via system just yet . But those who do , <URL> .
This question is a partial duplicate of <URL> and <URL> . When ATC gives a heading , receives the correct readback , but observes a 10 - to 15-degree difference between the actual and intended tracks , does the specialist incorporate this difference into future vectors ? Sometimes . The controller issues headings but observes ground track . If the wind is causing drift , the controller will compensate for it when she provides vectors . Sometimes , if an aircraft is suitably equipped , a controller will ask for a wind report in order to better judge the winds at altitude . Do approach and traffic separation vectors generally have a healthy margins of error ? Yep . <URL> . How does apparent compass deviation or directional gyro precession factor into vectors that ATC issues ? It 's up to the pilot , not the controller , to correct for compass deviation ( since only the pilot can see the compass correction card inside the aircraft ) and gyro precession ( since only the pilot can turn the little knob to reset the gyro ) .
The Mosquito was a great aircraft but it was not faster than Germany 's Messerschmitt ME-109 and Focke-Wulf Fw 190 piston powered fighter aircraft . It also did not successfully compete with the jet powered Messerschmitt Me 262 . The limited numbers of ME-262 were probably the only reason the Mosquito could survive in the same airspace . On 26 July 1944 the first aircraft to be shot down by a ME-262 was in fact a Mosquito : <URL> " a 262 A-1a , caught and severely damaged the Mosquito in a pursuit . The Mosquito , which managed to escape into cloud , later crashed at its destination airfield in Italy , and the airframe was written off "
The problems are two-fold : The airspeed is much higher in flight than when landing , so the thrust reverser doors would have to be much stronger , and therefore heavier to withstand the additional forces , along with the relative wind making them harder to close . What happens when it gets stuck in the deployed position ? Now you have to shut down a perfectly good engine and have additional drag on the airplane while in flight . ( Bonus ) It is n't really needed on most airplanes with spoilers , flaps , etc. that accomplish the same thing .
<URL> lists renewal requirements for flight instructors . If your CFI certificate is still valid ( unexpired ) than you can renew by any one of the following : Getting a new rating on your CFI certificate or re-taking a practical test for an existing rating on your CFI certificate ( 1 ) Passing a practical test for -- ( i ) One of the ratings listed on the current flight instructor certificate ; or ( ii ) An additional flight instructor rating ; or Having had at least 5 students in the last 2 years with an 80 % or higher pass rate ( i ) A record of training students showing that , during the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 students for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of those students passed that test on the first attempt . Being a check pilot , chief flight instructor , check airman or flight instructor for a part 121 or 135 operation and active in pilot evaluation during the last 2 years ( ii ) A record showing that , within the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot , chief flight instructor , company check airman , or flight instructor in a part 121 or part 135 operation , or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots . Completing an approved refresher course within the preceding 3 months ( iii ) A graduation certificate showing that , within the preceding 3 calendar months , the person has successfully completed an approved flight instructor refresher course consisting of ground training or flight training , or a combination of both . Passing a US armed forces military instructor proficiency check in the preceding 12 months . ( iv ) A record showing that , within the preceding 12 months from the month of application , the flight instructor passed an official U.S. Armed Forces military instructor pilot proficiency check . If you are not actively instructing and just maintaining your certificate the easiest method is the approved refresher course . There are a few weekend workshops and a online courses that are approved . The last time I did this method I used an online course and submitted the 8710 via IACRA and completed the whole thing over a weekend and with no physical paperwork . If your certificate has expired , even if you have completed the above but failed to submit the proper paperwork in time , then you can no longer do this the easy way and have to look at <URL> . To reinstate an expired certificate you must either pass a practical test for one of your existing CFI ratings or pass a practical test for a new rating for your CFI certificate .
There 's no legal limit of how high you 're allowed to fly by law : there 's no law that says It is illegal to fly above X ,000 ft In some juristictions there are more specific laws , eg It is illegal to operate an unpressurised aircraft above 25,000 ft However , each aircraft has a service ceiling when it is certified , and it would be generally illegal to operate the aircraft above this altitude ( because it 's unsafe ) . I 'm fairly confident that you were n't at 55,000 ft. No commercial airliner I know of has a service ceiling higher than 45,000 ft ( the newer version of the 747 ) and they almost never operate above 41,000 ft. A few private jets can go a little higher , up to around 50,000 ft , but I know of no non-military/experimental aircraft which is currently capable of going much above 50,000 ft , even if you were daft enough to try .
TL ; DR : Do you change altitude after the heading change , before , or during ? When flying under Air Traffic Control , you are expected to execute instructions after you receive them , following the motto . When receiving a turn and climb instruction at the same time , you are expected to start both , e.g. What 's the proper procedure for changing altitude when you change headings ? You do not change altitude or flight level on your own when flying IFR . When flying VFR , you should adhere to the semi-circular rules when changing your direction and end up in one of the semi-circular areas . On turn techniques that allow direction change and altitude change at the same time , see <URL> . Is this made more complicated if you are flying Visual Flight Rules instead of Instrument Flight Rules ? Yes and No , because remember : You do not change altitude or flight level without being cleared or instructed to do so when flying IFR . Whether having to choose the correct altitude or flight level when flying VFR is more difficult than having ATC select one for you , is debatable . Additional Information : The rule you are talking about is the <URL> , which depending on the country , can either be applied West to East or North to South . Let 's assume the example you have already used and differentiate between westbound and eastbound flights . ( Image Source : <URL> ) The above picture shows that aircraft on a eastbound general track between and are bound to odd flight levels , such as FL210 , FL230 , FL250 , etc. . Opposite traffic on a general track between and is bound to even flightlevels , such as FL220 , FL240 , FL260 , etc. . This flight level you are bound to use is also the flight level you request in your flightplan , called the Requested Flight Level or RFL . Imagine you have a flight going westbound and you have requested FL280 as your cruise level . You would maintain this flight level until you are cleared to descend by ATC . Even if a portion of the descent or arrival route leads in the opposite direction of your orignal track , it will be ATC who is responsible to assign the correct desend flight level , but these do not have to be necessarily following the semi-ciruclar flight level rules . There is one scenarion where a pilot may want to initiate a flight level change due to changing jurisdiction and use of the semi-circular flight level rules , which is when crossing borders between countries that use west-east and north-south rules . If are on a westbound flight ( approx track : that requires even flightlevels , such as FL280 and cross the FIR border into a country with north-south rules that require an odd flight level , you would have a step climb or descent in your flightplan to accomodate this , e.g. : It would still be ATC who clears you to climb to FL290 at that fix , but this way your flightplan is in accordance to local semi-circular flight level rules . Remember that when flying IFR , you never change the altitude or flightlevel unless you have been instructed or cleared to do so . The same semi-circular flight level rules apply to VFR , just with the added 500ft to stay clear of the IFR flight levels . In most cases however , VFR does not entirely follow these rules , as the are VFR and their separation is based on visual identification and the see-and-avoid principle . I am not familiar with airspace class B procedures , but in class C airspace , you require permissions to enter the airspace and will thus be assigned restrictions , which can be either a single altitude or flight level , an upper or lower restriction or a level or altitude band . If you are assigned either of the two latter options , you could apply the semi-circular flight level rules . See below on an overview how other countries handle these semi-circular rules . ( Image Source : <URL> - Not for real navigational use ) See also these related questions : <URL> <URL>
The EMB-145 used a combination of <URL> settings and the thrust levers to select the desired thrust and to signify the need for additional thrust . The thrust levers had a detent that selected " 100 % " thrust for the given mode the FADEC is operating in . If you pushed the thrust levers past the detent to " max " this would give you extra thrust . The mode the FADEC is operating in is selected by a button in the cockpit that cycles through the available modes . For takeoff power the modes were " ALT T/O " , " T/O " and " E-T/O " which gave you 90 % , 100 % and 107 % thrust for takeoff when the thrust levers were in the detent . If advanced past the detent this would put the mode into a reserve mode and depending on model would give you up to 110 % or 117 % thrust . Setting the exact amount of thrust needed was up to the engine FADEC units , our job was just to tell it what thrust mode it was in and it scaled the output of the thrust levels to that mode . Flying a 90 % thrust takeoff , a normal rated climb and then reducing to cruise levels only required initially setting the thrust levers into the detent and adjusting the FADEC mode .
<URL> ( aviationweather.gov ) Significant weather chart . Note the numbers in boxes . They decrease as the latitude increases : 450 → 400 → 350 → 250 . Note : those values change day to day and season to season , they 're not fixed . Those are the <URL> . 450 is FL450 , i.e. , 45,000 feet at a <URL> . This figure is very important in flight planning . Jets typically fly around this figure for optimal aircraft/engine performance . So yes , you 're right , the farther you fly from the equator , the lower you should fly . However , the following two statements are incorrect : I 'd expect that the air pressure at the top of the troposphere [ be the same regardless of latitude . ] The pressure gradient is still the same . See : <URL> As the altitude of an airliner increases , the angle of attack [ also increases . ] As the altitude increases , so does the speed , to counter the thinner air . Until you end up in a <URL> . Also , for high latitude polar flights , an airline can do away with the optimal performance , because the rise in temperature helps keep the fuel from freezing , however I may stand corrected on that .
Dry thrust usually means the non-augumented thrust i.e. thrust without the use of afterburners or liquid injection . The maximum thrust produced by jet engines w/o afterburner is sometimes called military thrust . The thrust of a jet eingine can be increased by using methods like water ( + methonol ) injection ( mostly in older turbojet engines ) or by using afterburners ( reheat ) . In such cases , the ( higher ) thrust produced is called wet thrust .
First , AF 447 was flying into the top of a tropical storm . The air was much more humid and warmer than that of the <URL> . Next , in the absence of seed crystals or nuclei , water vapour or liquid droplets stay in the air down to <URL> without freezing . From the linked article : Droplets of supercooled water often exist in stratiform and cumulus clouds . An aircraft flying through such a cloud sees an abrupt crystallization of these droplets , which can result in the formation of ice on the aircraft 's wings or blockage of its instruments and probes , unless the aircraft is equipped with an appropriate de-icing system . Freezing rain is also caused by supercooled droplets . So it was the impact with the probe which caused the supercooled droplets to freeze .
One of the biggest differences that you will see between the flaps on the two is that the NG ( photo on the right ) has continuous span flaps while the classic has split inboard and outboard flaps . <URL> <URL> Combined with the longer wing on the NG , this gives the new flaps more surface area , so they do n't need to be quite as effective . Overall , the NG actually has better performance than the classic , mainly because of the redesigned wing which is 25 % larger and has winglets ; both of which help out . Even though the performance is better with comparable triple-slotted flaps , the double-slotted flaps are lighter ( which helps with overall aircraft performance ) and have fewer moving parts . This makes them more reliable and they require less maintenance . Most new aircraft designs are moving to either double or even single slotted flaps because of this simpler design and the fact that today 's runways do n't require the extra performance that would be gained by the more complicated flaps . Photo Credits : <URL> <URL>
According to <URL> : Altitude : How High Is Just Right ? Today 's airplanes are pressurized to a typical cabin altitude of 6,500 to 7,000 feet ( 1,981 -- 2,133 m ) , with a maximum certification altitude of 8,000 feet ( 2,438 m ) . Because the advanced composite materials that make up the 787 's fuselage do not fatigue , the 787 can be pressurized more , which allows for lower cabin altitude levels . Studies at Oklahoma State University explored the effect of altitude on passengers to determine optimum levels . After testing at various altitudes , it became clear that lowering the cabin altitude to 6,000 feet ( 1,830 m ) provided meaningful improvements . Lowering the cabin altitude further , however , provided almost no additional benefit . Based on that knowledge , Boeing designed the 787 to be pressurized to a maximum cabin altitude of 6,000 feet . So if we assume a constant altitude of 43,000 ( the 787 's service ceiling1 ) , we would get a maximum differential of : 6,000 ft Cabin Altitude = 9.06 psi 8,000 ft Cabin Altitude = 8.11 psi This would indeed be a higher cabin pressure than what Boeing considers " typical " at maximum altitudes . 1 It is probably actually an even bigger difference since the ceiling of a lot of airplanes is n't this high so the max differential would be even lower .
According to this <URL> , Table 3 , ASRS reports were analyzed for 16 months between 1978 and 1979 . This included 553 incidents where the recipient was not monitoring , which seems to be the closest category to loss of communications . This equates to a little more than 1 incident a day . Note that this only includes incidents that were reported , and air traffic has increased since then . <URL> contains info from ICAO in in Europe . The focus is on the security issues from unresponsive aircraft . In just the northern region , there were 230 flights over just 6 months in the beginning of 2004 . This number inclues airlines , business jets , and military transports . This frequency is a little higher than the previous report , but is more recent and probably includes less flights . Other reports like <URL> do n't include a time frame for the reports analyzed , but look at other factors involved . For example , pilots with fewer hours and GA pilots are more likely to be involved in such an incident . The average duration of these incidents was 7.6 minutes . <URL> also has some good information about this type of incident , including a list of some of the many possible reasons for lost communications and excerpts from some of the reports .
First , let 's agree on terminology : What you saw in airshows is a vertical flight path . Flying horizontally first , the airplane pitched up until the nose was pointing straight into the sky . Surprisingly , no thrust is needed to perform this maneuver . Even gliders can do it . What happens is that kinetic energy is converted to potential energy , the rate of potential energy increase being proportional to flight speed and aircraft mass . If you start fast enough , this vertical flying can be maintained for several seconds , until the aircraft runs out of speed and stops in midair , followed by an uncontrolled drop . Skilled pilots orient the aircraft in the right direction by starting a rotation around the vertical axis at the top of the climb , so the following drop lets them pick up speed again with the correct nose-down attitude . Now potential energy is converted back into kinetic energy until speed is sufficient for a pullout . In aerobatics , this maneuver is called <URL> A few conditions apply , however . The airplane must be able to fly fast enough to have the needed potential energy to sustain the maneuver through the pitch-up phase . This is helped if its engines add energy , so the kinetic energy bleeds off more slowly . Also , at the top of the maneuver it is flying at zero g , and this requires at least that all items on board are securely fastened . Lastly , the pitch-up needs a load factor bigger than 1 g , and the higher the maximum load factor is , the tighter this pitch-up can be flown . Now the question has been changed : The vertical flight path is flown right after take-off . This limits the entry speed for the maneuver , and gliders will not be able to do this . If we take the 737 from the question and fly it with no payload and little fuel , the flight mass $ m $ of a 737-700 is 40 tons , and the installed thrust is about 200 kN ( sea level static ) . Let 's assume that the pilot accelerates after takeoff to a horizontal speed $ v $ = 100 m/s ( 194 KTAS ) while retracting the flaps , the kinetic energy ( $ 0.5 \ cdot m \ cdot v ^ 2 $ ) is equivalent to a potential energy ( $ m \ cdot g \ cdot h $ ) of an altitude gain h of $ $ h = \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 \ cdot g } = 510 m $ $ The engines deliver less thrust with increasing speed ; maybe 40 % of the weight , so the airplane will still accelerate for the first 18 ° - 20 ° of the 90 ° flight path change . This will delay the point when speed has been bled off and add maybe 150 m to h . At 100 m/s a pull-up with a radius of 500 m will add a load factor of 2 g . The pilot needs to pull less first and harder at the end of the maneuver in order to stay within the <URL> . When speed bleeds off , so will wing lift , and in the second half of the pull-up the wing will not create enough lift to change the flight path enough in order to reach the desired vertical attitude . Also , the aircraft will be very low for a safe recovery . This makes it rather doubtful that an airliner can be pulled up to a vertical climb after takeoff . If the maneuver is started at a higher speed and with a little more distance from the ground , I see no reason why it should not safely be possible .
end question
start question
Is there any engine that does n't use a propellant to produce thrust ?
No matter which kind of engine , you need some way to supply the engine with energy and you need some way to store that energy until you need it in flight . Short of going nuclear ( and there are some nontrivial engineering problems involved in designing a halfway safe nuclear reactor that you can put on a plane and keep it lightweight enough that flying it is n't pointless ) , chemical fuels for burning have the best available ratios of weight to energy stored . This is particularly important for aviation because more weight means more induced drag which means more thrust needed . Joule for joule , the efficiency of fuel-burning engines is not great , but the superior energy density of hydrocarbon fuel more than makes up for that and allows them to supply more useful thrust per kilogram of energy storage lifted than either batteries ( low losses , but very heavy ) or fuel cells ( medium losses , but require small-molecule fuel such as hydrogen or methane that still have markedly worse energy densities than kerosene ) . Since you speak about " exhaust gases " in the question , note that current aircraft derive at most a small fraction of their thrust from ejecting exhaust gases . Propeller planes do n't generally make use of the exhaust at all , and " jet " engines are practically always high-bypass turbofan engines where most of the energy from the combustion goes to drive the fan that blows intake air backwards without burning anything in it .
The main thing to do is to realize why you 're creating the corporation . We created a 501 ( c ) 7 ( in the US ) corporation which is a tax-exempt organization and falls under " social club . " We did this to limit our personal liability . However , if you are creating the corporation to limit personal liability , you have to make sure to operate like a corporation - call each other " co-owners " instead of " partners " ( there are legal ramifications to this , not just semantics ) . People around the airport should know it 's a co-owned plane by a corporation , not that it 's " your plane . " Basically if you want the liability protection of a corporation , you must act like one . Great book to read regarding the legal side of things is " <URL> " by J. Scott Hamilton Depending on how you set it up ( we did a 501 ( c ) 7 tax exempt , and yes , you still have to file a tax return ) , how you use the airplane matters too . For example , we ca n't earn money using the airplane ( conducting flight instruction to non-co-owners , for example ) , due to the 501 ( c ) 7 status . Under other corporate structures you can . Finally , I guess to actually answer your questions : There are some pitfalls , but I think they can be avoided . Most group ownership things fail because of lack of communication and documentation , forming a corporation kind of forces you to spell out things explicitly and then all involved have no excuse for not knowing " the rules . " ( You have to write up bylaws and have at least one annual meeting , which forces the communication aspect ! )
The most common case to pitch down is to speed up , not to reduce altitude , for example when transitioning from a climb ( at climb speed ) to level flight ( accelerating to cruise speed ) . You can transition to level flight by reducing thrust , but that 'll leave you level at climb speed , and is usually not what you want . Changing configuration will usually require pitching changes to maintain stable flight . In particular during the approach-to-landing , extending the flaps will substantially increase the drag , and in order to maintain airspeed , you 'll need to pitch the nose down . If you do n't , you 'll bleed off airspeed and potentially eventually stall unless you overpower the drag with thrust . There are of course unusual circumstances that will require a pitch-down as well , obstacle avoidance for example ( e.g. airplanes ) . As mentioned in the comments , to make a speedy descent you 'll probably also want to pitch down ( such as in case of pressurization problems or fire on board ) .
Tip jet rotors are still being developed , none of them are ramjet powered as far as I know . The <URL> is tip rocket powered , while the <URL> uses air jets powered by a conventional engine . Ramjet technology has not improved , so the cases for using them on rotor tips has not changes . They are still too heavy , thirsty and noisy .
EZY ( EasyJet UK ) code and EZS ( EasyJet Switzerland ) are the ICAO codes , whereas U2 is the code generated by IATA.So the reason why they use the code U2 is because this is the code IATA generated for them when they applied for an IATA code.You can look at the document below that has to be submitted to IATA in order to get the code . <URL> <URL> EasyJet Airline Company Limited ( UK Based ) - ( IATA code : U2 ; ICAO code EZY ; Callsign : Easy ) EasyJet Switzerland SA ( IATA code : DS ; ICAO code : EZS ; Callsign : TOPSWISS ) ICAO codes are used for operational purposes like flight planning , ATC etc whereas IATA codes like U2 are generally used in timetables , reservation systems , departure/arrival information etc. . In other words information that is meant for the general public .
A variable area nozzle helps to adjust the exit pressure of the combustion gases to ambient pressure . When they leave the turbine , the combustion gases have still some remaining pressure which is converted into speed by a convergent contour of the nozzle . If the combustion gases have enough pressure to be accelerated to supersonic speed , the nozzle is actually first convergent and then divergent to achieve the best acceleration of the flow . The convergent , subsonic flow accelerates until in the section with the smallest area , called the throat , the speed of sound is reached , and the following divergent section accelerates the now supersonic flow further until its pressure drops to ambient pressure . This con-di-nozzle needs to adjust both the cross section of the throat and the cross section of the exit area . Failure to get especially the throat area right will mean substantial thrust loss in operation . Afterburning engines need adaptable nozzles due to the different operating conditions in dry and wet mode , so they profit the most from adjustable nozzles . Reheating the exhaust gas means to increase its volume , so the nozzle needs to become wider to be properly matched . In general , if the exit speed of the combustion gases is supersonic , an adjustable nozzle is required . Even some early jets without afterburners had an adjustable nozzle : The central cone of the <URL> nozzle could be moved fore and aft , which changed the location of the bulbous aft section , helping to get the throat area right . Note in the picture below that the cross section widens again in the last part of the nozzle , which shows that the exhaust stream of the Jumo engine was mildly supersonic . Airliner engines would only gain little from an adjustable nozzle , and considering the mass increase of a fully adjustable nozzle , would in total have lower efficiency . Their exit speed is still subsonic - please note that the speed of sound in the heated combustion gas is much higher . At 500 ° C the speed of sound is almost 560 m/s . The variable area fan nozzle tries to do for the fan flow what the regular nozzle does for the core flow of a jet . So this is indeed a related concept . The picture below is copied from the US patent 2011/0302907A1 and shows an adjustable end part of the cowling ( crosshatched , 54 ) . Even though the exit speed of the fan flow is subsonic , its mass flow is much higher than that of the core in airliner engines . By adjusting the exit pressure by varying the exit area it can squeeze out some performance gains .
Yes , there are runways numbered on only one side . For example , the third runway in the Frankfurt Airport ( 18 , Runway west ) is used only for takeoffs ( to the south ) and not for landings . Hence only number 18 is used . The other runways are used for both takeoffs and landings and are numbered 07C/25C , 07R/25L and 07L/25R . <URL> Thomas Römer / OpenStreetMap data [ <URL> ] , <URL> This restriction is due to the fact that it will interfere with the traffic in other runways . <URL> Number 36 is not painted .
I want to set a KPI to measure average hours flown . You might want to check <URL> : ( aviation ) The time from the moment the aircraft door closes at departure of a revenue flight until the moment the aircraft door opens at the arrival gate following its landing . Block hours are the industry-standard measure of aircraft utilization . ( Emphasis mine . ) The Wikipedia article <URL> lists very common terms and KPI 's . One of those terms that could also be applicable to your case ( revenue passenger miles ) was asked about here : <URL>
The afterburner , of course . In simplest sense , the afterburner is just an extension attached to the engine where the fuel is dumped into the exhaust , resulting in an inefficient but huge increase in thrust . <URL> Turbojet with and without afterburner ; image from <URL> In the above image , you can see the basic schematic of the afterburner - it basically consists of a long tube placed in between the turbine and the nozzle in which additional fuel is added and burned . The ( afterburner ) tube is quite simple , consisting of mechanisms to spray fuel into the exhaust and ignite it . This image shows an actual afterburner , from the F/A -18 ( F404 engine ) . As you can see , its quite simple . <URL> ... sailor Ryan Draper ... inspects an F/A -18 afterburner in the jet shop aboard the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS George Washington ( CVN 73 ) . Image from <URL>
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
Logbooks are an interesting blend of personal and professional recordkeeping . The FAA does n't really make a big deal about what method you use to log your flight time , just as long as you log all flight time which you 're going to later use to justify currency or a new certificate . This means that you can do whatever works best for you , as long as you ( and your future employers ) are happy with it . When I transitioned to <URL> , I decided to spend a few weeks worth of evenings and just enter everything , line by line . I did this because I had a lot of spare time , and because from now on I 've got a pristine digital copy of everything , which is a nice feeling . However , this is certainly not necessary , and there is no reason why you could n't summarize your totals with one or a few line items . In fact , Safelog provides a function to do exactly that : you create a pseudo-aircraft type which is defined as " summarizes several aircraft " . You can get as coarse ( 1,302 hours in airplanes ) or as fine ( 389 hours in blue C-172M 's with the funny starter that sounds like you just dropped a shot glass in a garbage disposal ) as you want . I would say that whatever you choose to do , just be sure that you enter it using a format which will be compatible when you switch from Android to iPad . It 's bad enough to do it once , why put yourself through the hassle of doing it twice ?
The best option is probably Jane 's Aircraft Recognition Guide . It is hard to find , but it has a large number of planes and has multiple editions .
<URL> provides some direction . CAT.OP.MPA .165 Passenger seating The operator shall establish procedures to ensure that passengers are seated where , in the event that an emergency evacuation is required , they are able to assist and not hinder evacuation of the aircraft . Further clarification can be found from <URL> . AMC2 CAT.OP.MPA .165 Passenger seating ACCESS TO EMERGENCY EXITS The following categories of passengers are among those who should not be allocated to , or directed to , seats that permit direct access to emergency exits : ( a ) passengers suffering from obvious physical or mental disability to the extent that they would have difficulty in moving quickly if asked to do so ; ( b ) passengers who are either substantially blind or substantially deaf to the extent that they might not readily assimilate printed or verbal instructions given ; ( c ) passengers who because of age or sickness are so frail that they have difficulty in moving quickly ; ( d ) passengers who are so obese that they would have difficulty in moving quickly or reaching and passing through the adjacent emergency exit ; ( e ) children ( whether accompanied or not ) and infants ; ( f ) deportees , inadmissible passengers or persons in custody ; and ( g ) passengers with animals . Whether or not a person can sit in the emergency exit row may also depend on if the specific seat is designated as an emergency exit . For example , on narrow body aircraft , generally all seats in the emergency exit row are considered emergency exit seats and only persons who " able to assist " can sit in those locations . However , on some wide body aircraft , only seats on the window sides are considered emergency exit seats . On an aircraft with a 2-3-2 configuration , the 3 seats in the middle are not considered exit row seats and therefore do not have any further safety requirements .
In addition to the systems listed by RedGrittyBrick , it is also possible to let the aircraft detect itself , from its sensors , potential crashes . This problem has been studied , and is pretty well documented in a report made by the BEA ( the French equivalent of the NTSB ) after the crash of the flight AF447 . The full report is available in <URL> and in <URL> . I made a summary of their work in this answer . The solution proposed in this report is a triggered transmission of flight data . The aircraft transmits them only if it detects a potentially dangerous situation from its sensors ( this reduces the load on communication systems ) . Two types of triggering criterion are proposed : One base on binary logic One based on Fuzzy logic They both take into account several parameters ( speed , pitch angle , pilot 's inputs ... ) and verify some relations about them . For example , if , something is probably wrong . The criterion have been check against a database of real flight data recovered from crashed aircrafts , in order to assess their performances : The robustness of the triggering criteria was evaluated using the following metrics : False detection rate ( or nuisance trigger rate ) : out of all the normal flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation Nuisance transmission time that the nuisance triggers generate Emergency situation detection rate : out of all the accident/incident flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation For flights with a correctly detected emergency situation , what is the warning time between the time of detection and the time of impact with the surface The conclusion of these tests is that accidents were almost always predicted ( binary logic failed in only one case out of 44 , fuzzy logic detected every case ) . On average , the problem was raised about 350s before the actual crash ( the median is around 33s , minimum at 3s and maximum at 10,019 s ) . The second half of the report discusses different system to transmit these triggered alarms to infrastructures on the ground . It is also interesting and well written , but outside the scope of this question .
For a transport category airplane with 20 more more seats the minimum aisle width is 15 inches from the floor to a height of 25 inches , and 20 inches width above a height of 25 inches . § 25.815 Width of aisle . The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table : 1A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator .
For go-around , several things have to be done in the moment the decision is taken : Apply full power ( obviously ) , disconnect autopilot glide-slope mode , disarm spoilers and retract them if they are extended , disarm autobrakes and in some aircraft reduce flaps . Modern airliners , and some smaller aircraft , have a method for doing all of these at once via the <URL> . On Airbus aircraft it is done by just advancing the thrust levers to the TO/GA ( full power ) position , but on Boeing aircraft and many other types it is a separate button on or near the thrust levers . So if the crew " apparently decided to undertake this procedure manually " it means they moved the thrust levers forward and started changing the other things . And probably missed one of them . Notes : I am not sure whether lateral mode remains under automatic control or not and it probably depends on aircraft as some can connect autopilot to only roll or only pitch and others do n't . Pitch control is manual immediately after go-around in either case . The last flap setting usually adds a lot of drag and a little lift . In some types the drag is too large and the flaps have to be retracted to the last usable position . On other aircraft they can be used in any position and have to be left were they were to avoid loosing lift .
<URL> provides cloud tops for weather with precipitation . Cloud tops with no precip can be discerned from data provided in the Skew-t log ℗ charts that are part of this app <URL> Where the temperature and dew point on the skew-t charts are converged you can expect clouds . If the convergence extends into the freezing level indicated on the chart you can expect icing .
By motor oil , I assume that you mean automotive motor oil . In that case , it 's a bad idea for a bunch of reasons . First , every airplane POH I 've seen has specified that the oil must qualify to a standard - either MIL-L-6082 or MIL-L-22851 ( though those have been superseded by an SAE standard ) . Modern automotive oil does n't meet that standard , and therefore is effectively forbidden by the POH . More to the point , automotive oil is bad for aviation engines . Aviation and automotive engines work on the same basic principles , but many of the details are different .1 One significant difference is that aviation engines normally burn some oil as they run , while well-performing automobile engines burn little or none . Automotive oil contains a number of additives , such as detergents and wear inhibitors , intended for use where the oil does n't burn off . Some of those additives do not burn completely , but instead stick around in the form of ash , where they can foul the engine and create deposits that lead to pre-ignition . That is why aviation oil is ashless dispersant : it cleans the engine by dispersing combustion byproducts into the oil ( to be removed on the next oil change ) , while being ashless when burned . Lycoming considers it serious enough to put in an all-caps " CAUTION " section in their <URL> document : UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD AUTOMOTIVE OIL BE USED . THE USE OF AUTOMOTIVE LUBRICANTS IN TEXTRON LYCOMING ENGINES IS NOT RECOMMENDED BECAUSE ITS USE COULD CAUSE ENGINE FAILURE . If all of that was n't enough , use of an improper oil may void your engine warranty . In short : do n't use it . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> 1 ) Note that I 'm referring to air-cooled aviation engines that burn 100LL - made by , say , Lycoming or Continental . Rotaxes and new aero-diesels are different , and more like their respective automotive counterparts ; in fact , Thielert engines are actually based on automotive diesels .
The difference between both values is the energy set free when the water created by the combustion process condenses . Use the lower heat value for jet engine calculations . The water in a jet engine leaves it as vapor , and the vaporisation heat is lost for propulsion .
Yes , there are several systems . The simplest are REALLY BIG WINDOWS ( and binoculars ) : <URL> When the entire wall in front of you is an big expanse of glass looking out over the runway there 's a good chance you 'll notice something trying to roll onto the runway . Many runway incursions are detected visually . Really big windows do n't work as well when you have multiple runways and larger airport complexes though , so we have some technological solutions too . The most common is Automated Surface Detection Equipment ( ASDE ) , the one being deployed today is <URL> . This is basically " radar on the ground " which interrogates aircraft transponders and shows the controllers which aircraft are where on the airport surface : <URL> There are also systems on the ground designed to prevent incursions , but those are mainly for use by pilots . These include <URL> , <URL> ( which include " stop bars " that light up on hold-short lines ) , and " runway guard lights " ( which may be mounted either in the pavement or <URL> ) . Many of these systems can be controlled from the tower , either by automatic systems or manually by the controllers .
end question
start question
In what ways does the current FAA written exam differ from the Sporty 's practice test ?
I took the PPL written exam this morning ( 9/30/2016 ) , but I used the Jeppesen PPL materials to prepare . Although I can not speak to the Sporty 's study materials , the Jeppesen practice exam and supporting materials were identical to the questions on the real exam . I would assume that Sporty 's will be ( almost ? ) the same . I actually scored higher on the real exam than on any of the practice tests . Yes , the current exam uses the Airman Knowledge Testing Supplement for Sport Pilot , Recreational Pilot and Private Pilot booklet .
When looking at the rules on ecfr.gov you will find references at the bottom of the paragraph indicating the Amendment , Federal Register notices , and other documents related to the rule . In this case it leads to the following <URL> . That document includes the following explanation for the rule ; II.B .5 . REQUIRE 1 HOUR OF FLIGHT TRAINING ON THE CONTROL AND MANEUVERING OF AN AIRPLANE SOLELY BY REFERENCE TO INSTRUMENTS FOR STUDENT PILOTS SEEKING A SPORT PILOT CERTIFICATE TO OPERATE AN AIRPLANE WITH A V Current regulations require student pilots seeking a sport pilot certificate to receive and log flight training in the control and maneuvering of an aircraft solely by reference to flight instruments . This training must be received before conducting a solo cross-country flight or any flight greater than 25 nautical miles from the airport from where the flight originated . It also must be received prior to making a solo flight and landing at any location other than the airport of origination . These requirements are detailed in § 61.93 and are applicable to persons seeking a student pilot certificate to operate any category and class of aircraft . That section , however , does not specify any minimum flight training time to meet these requirements . In addition , current regulations for the issuance of a sport pilot certificate do not require an applicant to receive flight training on the control and maneuvering of any aircraft solely by reference to instruments . The FAA is concerned that persons exercising student or sport pilot privileges in airplanes with a maximum airspeed in level flight with maximum continuous power ( VH ) greater than 87 knots calibrated airspeed ( CAS ) may inadvertently encounter conditions less than those specified for VFR operations due to their greater speed and range . Operators of these aircraft are more likely to encounter instrument meteorological conditions than operators of other categories of aircraft . In order to enhance the ability of these pilots to appropriately react to the possibility of encountering instrument meteorological conditions and the potential consequences of attempting continued visual flight rule ( VFR ) flight in instrument meteorological conditions , the FAA is proposing to require persons operating an airplane with a VH greater than 87 knots CAS to receive and log 1 hour of flight training on the control and maneuvering of an aircraft solely by reference to instruments . The FAA recognizes that persons may currently be authorized to operate aircraft with a VH greater than 87 knots CAS . To provide those persons with a reasonable period of time to obtain this training , the agency is proposing that the training be completed by 1 year after the effective date of the final rule . This training would include straight and level flight , climbs and descents , turns to a heading , and recovery from unusual flight attitudes . Due to the slower speeds and limited capabilities of categories and classes of aircraft other than airplanes , the FAA is not proposing that this requirement be extended to operators of those categories and classes of aircraft and airplanes with a VH less than or equal to 87 knots CAS . The FAA notes that for training to be conducted solely by reference to instruments in visual meteorological conditions , it must be conducted with a view-limiting device . My take is that earlier rules covered the conditions with VH less than 87 KCAS . The FAA felt it was necessary to add rules to cover flight at the higher airspeeds .
Direct link vs satellite There are three major ways of sending control messages to an aircraft : Direct radio link [ when ] in line of sight , satellite , ground stations , e.g. , tracon . The way the question starts brings confusion so the many comments . There are two categories of radio links involved in voice/data communication : Between a ground station and the aircraft and via a relay , e.g. a satellite . Satellites are merely used today for air traffic control , it 's a thing of the future ( 2 to 3 years for tracking the aircraft using <URL> ) . However satellites are sometimes used for aircraft communication with the airline technical staff and/or the manufacturers . However the information exchanged here is not ATC related at all : It can be technical , e.g. live <URL> sent to airline technical staff or to the engine manufacturer , to prepare maintenance at the destination airport . It can also be internal exchange with the airline operations . Satellite communication is also used for passenger services like telephone and Internet access aboard the aircraft . So ATC uses the other kind of links , the direct ones , which means a transmitter on the ground . However these " ground stations " can serve different purposes because ATC is organized so that ATC facilities are specialized . Simple ATC organization There are ATCOs on the site who may add details to this answer , but I 'll draw the mainlines . In the US , ATC operational facilities are divided into 4 categories : ATC Tower . Controllers are located in the airfield tower and they control aircraft on the ground ( e.g. at their gates , or on the taxiways ) , aircraft on the runways ( landing or taking off ) , aircraft approaching the airfield to land , aircraft leaving the airfield and climbing to their cruise altitude . The tower controllers have a good sight on all those aircraft . Tracon ( terminal radar approach control ) . Controllers maybe located in the tower or at other locations . They are in charge of taking over the aircraft that just took off and are now departing . They continue the control that was started by their colleagues of the Tower . They also take care of the descending aircraft before they are handed over to their colleagues of the Tower for landing . As you see , tracon actually takes aircraft from cruise altitude to near the landing runway , and from near the takeoff runway to cruise altitude . Next , there is the enroute ATC center for controlling aircraft in cruise , between the departing tracon and the arrival tracon . This facility is also known as air route traffic control center ( ARTCC ) . The enroute controllers can be located anywhere , they do n't need to see the sky , and usually they do n't see it at all , they work in a dark room using only displays and microphones . There are a <URL> to control the whole US airspace . This split is shown on this figure : <URL> that is extracted from <URL> . The last type of ATC facility is the oceanic ATC which controls an ocean area , because the procedures and tools used are a bit particular . Oceans are not belonging to a particular country , however all countries have agreed to delegate the control to a particular country for a particular area . In the US , for the East coast , New-York oceanic center will control an area , Canada will control another , UK and France will manage the other side of the pond . These centers control areas named OCA , for oceanic control area . See <URL> for North Atlantic . When the aircraft progress along its route , it is handed over to the next area controller . This was the first part : We have clarified who are the controllers and ATC facilities , where they are and what phase of flight they control . Now let 's see the radio equipment they use . Radio links First let 's clarify between radio and radar . Radar is used to determine the position of the aircraft . This can be done everywhere , except over oceans . The reason is radar has a limited range , and there are no radar stations in the ocean ( at least not for civil aviation ) . Radar stations are located at selected locations , on hills and other high places , to increase their range . some radar are located on airfields too , but that 's not a requirement . Actually , all information collected by all radar stations are gathered and distributed to all control centers as a synthetic picture . Radio is used to exchange voice messages and data . As I wrote , all radio links have a ground station at the center . This ground station is usually at the same location than the controllers . So some ATC radio equipment is at the airfield , some at the enroute centers , etc. . For OCA , the equipment can be remote from the controllers , but this is just a technical detail . Aviation radio for ATC messages can use two types of frequencies : VHF ( very high frequency ) which works mostly in line of sight , so the range is something around 50 km to 200 km depending on propagation conditions and location . VHF is used when the aircraft is flying over lands . Controllers at the towe
When departing from a towered field pilots may request something other than a " standard " departure . As an example , consider the noise abatement procedures for my home field shown below : <URL> When departing from Runway 14 the standard noise-abatement departure for light aircraft requires you to turn south ( heading 190 ) when you pass the departure end of the runway . This is obviously inconvenient if your destination is to the north , so you can request a northbound departure . If the tower can accommodate your request they will clear you for the non-standard departure , usually with the phrase " left turn-out approved " or " northbound departure approved " , and a heading if necessary .
You just fly your profile . Initially its with an instructor , but eventually you move on to training by yourself/copilot . You can practice full autos ( to a landing ) , but some airframes practice to a hover or in early stages . In the TH-57B ( Bell 206 ) , you can take it a full power-off landing during training since it is light enough . However , moving up to the TH-57C you do power-on recoveries , where you run the twistgrip back up to full open while you 're in the flare . You then initiate the recovery to arrive at a standard 5-foot hover . The C model has significantly more weight , which is the main reason . In the MH-60S its all power-on , recovery to a hover . Except we do not go to idle like in the 57s , we just rapidly lower the collective to get the needle split . Same process in practicing your scan , initiating the flare , and then pulling in power at the appropriate height once you 've leveled . Finish at 10 feet with some forward speed . ( Rumor is that Army does full practice autos in their 60s , but never confirmed that ) . Navy prohibits it in the MH-60S and almost certainly in the MH-60R as well . The explanation I received is that the airframe is meant to absorb the impact similar to your car during a full auto , and thus full practices can structurally compromise the bird . Source : MH-60S driver
That specific phrasing means that you ca n't touch a cloud . See the VFR minimums in <URL> , where it says : no person may operate an aircraft under VFR when the flight visibility is less , or at a distance from clouds that is less , than that prescribed for the corresponding altitude and class of airspace in the following table [ ... ] The table lists the " distance from clouds " in class B as " clear of clouds " . You can also find it in the <URL> on class B airspace , and in other sections about SVFR , visual approaches etc. where a requirement for those procedures is to remain clear of clouds . The actual cloud cover in the class B airspace is reported by METARs and ATIS .
As the message says , a TRA has <URL> as an RA , just that it is temporary so it wo n't appear on charts . There may be expected times when the RA is in use but the actual times will be posted in a NOTAM . It will be <URL> ahead of time Using agency notifies controlling agency when airspace will be " hot " NOTAMs describe when the airspace will be closed When the airspace is open , ATC can clear flights ( IFR or VFR ) through This is useful if the area is known ahead of time but times may be limited and variable . The using agency must also later submit a report detailing the actual usage of the area . A TFR defines special flight rules that are applicable in specific circumstances . They are governed by <URL> , and a NOTAM is published defining the airspace and times , as well as what restrictions are in effect . A TFR may be defined for the following reasons : Disaster/hazard areas Protecting the President , the Vice President , or other public figures Space flight operations High barometric pressure Aerial demonstrations and major sporting events <URL> Each of these categories has general rules for who is allowed to operate in the airspace , though each TFR may include more specific requirements . TFRs issued for disasters/hazards generally require aircraft that are not local flights or directly related to the event to be on an IFR flight plan . Other situations may just require permission from ATC , or effectively make the airspace Class C.
I 'll expand on the other answers here . Wind : The biggest factor in this is wind . Winds at common cruising altitude can sometimes reach well into the 100 Knot spectrum . Keep in mind that this can be in any direction . So lets say a long haul flight has a 100 Knot headwind half the year and a 100 Knot tail wind for the other half . That 's a 200 Knot ground speed difference which can really make an impact on flight time . ATC Holds Vary : ATC for various reasons may put a plane into a holding pattern on arrival . This may add to the time spent in the air for a given flight depending on the hold . Landing Slots : There are <URL> here in the US ( and presumably others elsewhere ) that require planed ahead landing slots . If the slot time changes but the departure time remains the same an airline may chose to slow the plane a bit ( or speed it up a bit ) to compensate . Aircraft Loading : Aircraft efficiency ( and subsequently speed ) will vary a bit with the loading of the aircraft . Since not every flight on a given route is loaded equally there may be efficiency gained or lost as a result of loading .
In short , the scheme is as follows : Busier airports get 3-letter identifiers . Less busy public-use airports usually get 2 numbers and a letter , sometimes 1 number and 2 letters . Less busy private airports ( which is almost all private airports ) get 2 letters and 2 numbers . More specifically , the FAA assigns airport identifiers ( and location identifiers in general ) according to the guidance laid out in section 1-2-7 of <URL> . 3 Letter Identifiers For airports , 3-letter identifiers are assigned to airports that meet the following criteria : Airports : ( a ) with a manned air traffic control facility . ( b ) with a navigational aid ( NAVAID ) within airport boundaries . ( c ) that receive scheduled route air carriers . ( d ) that receive military airlift services . ( e ) designated by the U.S. Customs Service as Airports of Entry . or Public use airports commissioning Automated Weather Observations Systems , level III ( AWOS-III ) or higher that have paved runways 5,000 feet or longer . 1 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Most one − number , two − letter identifiers have been assigned to aviation weather reporting and observation stations and special − use locations . Some of these identifiers may be assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : In this identifier series , the number is always in the first position of the three − character combination . For example , 1AD would be a valid code . 2 Number , 1 Letter Identifiers Most one − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : One − letter , two − number identifiers are keyed by the alphabetical letter . The letter may appear in the first , middle or last position in the combination of three characters . For example , 25M , 8M1 , or M72 are all valid codes . 2 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Two − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to private − use landing facilities in the United States and its jurisdictions which do not meet the requirements for three − character assignments . The format of these codes is as follows : They are keyed by the two − letter Post Office or supplemental abbreviation ( listed below ) of the state with which they are associated . The two − letter code appears in the first two , middle , or last two positions of the four − character code . For example , TN01 , 1CA3 , or 50SD would be valid codes . The order continues to list a table of supplemental codes that can be used instead of the state 's mail code . This allows for states whose mailing codes would n't work well as part of the identifier and also for states which need more than the 300 private airport registration codes possible with a given 2-letter sequence in this format . Changes to Existing Identifiers Airport identifiers are preferred to keep the same code once it 's assigned , except in exceptional circumstances . According to section 1-2-4 of the same document : Location identifiers are considered permanent and will not be changed without strong and documented justification , primarily concerning air safety or a significant change of landing facility status . As a result of this , it 's possible for an airport which now meets the qualifications for a 3-letter identifier to still have an identifier containing numbers due to it not having met the requirements for three letters when it was assigned . <URL> is an example of this . It has an AWOS-III and a paved runway longer than 5,000 feet , but still retains the code 8A3 , which was assigned before the runway was lengthened .
If they are being operated by the military , not much . Military operations can exempt themselves from the FARs ( as a matter of practice they do n't : When operating in the US National Airspace System they follow the same operational regulations we do , but as a matter of regulation they 're subject to the military 's rules for airworthiness , maintenance , etc. ) . Military pilots have a military pilot 's license ( which can be converted to an FAA license with a little paperwork ) , and the airworthiness and maintenance standards for active military aircraft are defined and managed by the branch of the service responsible for the aircraft . ( This is similar to , but legislatively distinct from , <URL> . ) This does n't mean the FAA is completely silent about military operations/aircraft : There is <URL> ( also available in an easier-to-read <URL> ) , which would be applicable to aircraft like the VC-25 ( " Air Force One " ) .
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
The short answer is that there 's no real difference between a " trainer " aircraft and an " owner " aircraft when they roll off the manufacturer 's assembly line . Below are two mid-1970s Piper Cherokee Cruisers - take my word for it that they both have virtually identical instruments , avionics , and interior finishing . One of these airplanes is the " trainer " I did much of my early training in , and had a little over 11,000 hours of flight time as of when the school sold it . The other is ( probably ) an owner-flown airplane with about 2,000 hours of flight time . Can you tell which is which ? The answer is in the spoiler box at the end of this post . " Trainer " aircraft generally have flight and operational characteristics that makes them " suitable for use in training " -- though what that means <URL> . In modern training aircraft you 'll almost always find the following : Dual controls Much like a Driver 's Education car has an extra brake , aircraft used for training will have dual controls so your flight instructor can correct any mistakes the student makes before they become dangerous . ( Dual controls are in fact required for flight training , at least under FAA regulations , though interestingly <URL> . ) 2-4 person seating capacity Hand in hand with dual controls goes dual seating - You need a place for both a student and an instructor . You do n't generally find many trainers that will seat more than four people , as those larger aircraft cost more to purchase and operate . Some kind of intercom Students and instructors generally wear headsets , and an intercom system makes it easier for them to communicate . One or more Radio systems Part of flight training includes learning how to communicate with Air Traffic Control and other pilots , and how to use radio navigation systems . This requires at least a communication radio , so there 's usually one either installed or available ( a handheld unit ) , and in most modern trainers you 'll find one or more navigation radios of various types . In addition trainer aircraft tend to be inexpensive to maintain ( mechanically simple ) , operate ( relatively fuel-efficient ) , and tend toward the slower end of the speed spectrum ( because it 's easier for a student to keep up with a slower aircraft ) . It 's important to note that not all " trainers " fit this mold : The <URL> is , by designation , a Trainer aircraft , but its goal was to train Air Force pilots , many of whom would go on to air combat roles . The things a T-6 is optimized to teach are very different from what a Piper Cherokee or Cessna 172 are optimized to teach . Not surprisingly many of those same characteristics are also desirable in a plane you might buy to fly yourself : Dual controls in case you take a friend or another pilot along ( or in case you want to take instruction in your own aircraft ) , an intercom to let you talk to your passengers , and radios so you can navigate and communicate in the air traffic system . Because of this many pilots who elect to buy an airplane purchase what we would consider " trainer-class " aircraft , frequently models similar to the ones they trained in ( and in the used market , frequently aircraft that were used for flight training at some point ) . When you leave the " trainer " range you tend to find faster aircraft , more complicated systems , more attractive finishing elements ( plush cabin interiors , fancy paint schemes ) , and more seating capacity . You also find aircraft that begin to specialize more : Where trainers tend to be well-rounded the " non-trainer " planes tend to excel in specific areas , serving specific niches in the market ( the <URL> is a high-performance aerobatic aircraft favored by many airshow performers , <URL> feature extensive speed optimizations and are favored by many pilots who use their planes for long-distance travel , the <URL> is a " luxury " cruiser/transportation aircraft suitable for flying corporate executives to and from smaller airports , etc. ) . N2269Q is the trainer , now sporting a shiny new paint job . N32711 is the owner-flown airplane , with its factory paint . ( <URL> )
Versalog already told the core of the thing . Most prop aircraft which are approved for flights into known icing conditions have such boots to remove the ice from the wings leading edge . Those boots are either inflated manually whenever you need them ( by the press of a button of course ) , at regular intervals or automatically whenever ice is detected . Check this picture , the black thing is the boot on a Dash 8 's wing : <URL> <URL>
For a proper answer we first need to define what " safe enough " is . If you want a significant reduction in risk over current standards , improving the restraint <URL> . Your observation is absolutely correct : The lap belt is the minimum the airlines get away with , and you would be much better protected in some kinds of accident by a proper 5-point harness . But fitting the harness alone will not achieve much : To stay in place in a crash , all seats need to be reinforced , so they can tolerate the increased loads at the shoulder belt attachment points . This will add weight and cut into the profits of airlines , so it will only happen when it is mandated . Please read <URL> for more details . It concerns GA aircraft , but much applies to airliner seats as well . The better the restraints are , the more deceleration load can be survived . Note that the points in the <URL> are from tests with additional leg , chest and arm restraints . If all you have is a lap belt , you might probably be able to tolerate only half as many gs . The better alternative to a 5-point harness would be to <URL> . This would help most to reduce injuries and improve chances of survival in a crash landing . Now I have to contradict @FreeMan : While the brace position will put all the load on a small strip around a person 's hips and lets the arms flail forward , a properly secured torso can take 10g for a duration of more than a second and up to 40g momentarily without ripping the head off . See below the famous sequence of Dr. John Stapp in a ride on his rocket sled " <URL> " : <URL> Dr. John Stapp in a deceleration test ( picture <URL> ) He clearly had his head bobbing about , but even though he lost dental fillings and suffered hemorrhage in his eyes , the head stayed intact . In the end , all what the lap belt is really good for is to keep you in your seat with negative acceleration due to gusts . This is by far the most common situation when a restraint is needed . The classical brace position ( torso over legs , head down ) is impossible anyway in economy class due to the ever reducing seat pitch .
This regulatory oversight is performed by the Civil Aviation Authority of a country . In India , this function is performed by the <URL> ( DGCA-India ) . Typically certification information is available to the public , but only high level information will be given . Searching on the DGCA-India website I found <URL> that lays down the requirements on Cabin Crew Training .
The FAA defines several different types of aircraft , which have different applicable regulations . For fixed-wing aircraft , airworthiness for normal , utility , acrobatic , and commuter categories is covered in <URL> . Note : Seat number excludes pilot seats . Weights are maximum certificated takeoff weights . Normal category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Any maneuver incident to normal flying ; Stalls ( except whip stalls ) ; and Lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , angle of bank 60 degrees or less Utility category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Normal category , plus : Spins ( if approved for the particular type of airplane ) ; and Lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar maneuvers , angle of bank can be more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees Acrobatic category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Anything not prohibited due to flight tests Commuter category Seats : 19 or less Weight : 19,000 lb or less Engines : 2 or more Allowed maneuvers : Any maneuver incident to normal flying ; Stalls ( except whip stalls ) ; and Steep turns , angle of bank 60 degrees or less Except for commuter category , airplanes may be type certificated in more than one category if the requirements of each requested category are met . Beyond commuter category , there is the <URL> . Multi-engine airplanes satisfying either of the below requirements must be certified in this category . Airworthiness for the transport category is covered in <URL> . Transport category Seats : 20 or more Weight : more than 19,000 lb For rotorcraft , there are two main categories : normal and transport . Airworthiness for the normal category is covered in <URL> . Normal category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 7,000 lb or less Multi-engine rotorcraft satisfying these conditions may be certified under transport Category A ( see below ) if they satisfy certain conditions . Airworthiness for the transport category is covered in <URL> . There are sub-categories here as well . Transport category Category A Seats : 10 or more Weight : more than 20,000 lb Category B Seats : 9 or less Weight : 20,000 lb or less If a rotorcraft only satisfies one of the requirements for Category A , it may be certificated under Category B with certain additional requirements . A multiengine rotorcraft may be type certificated as both Category A and Category B with appropriate and different operating limitations for each category . There is also a <URL> category covered in <URL> . A balloon is a lighter-than-air aircraft that is not engine driven , and that sustains flight through the use of either gas buoyancy or an airborne heater . Part 21 addresses the certification process itself , and includes special types of certificates for other aircraft . <URL> Power sources allowed : None Single naturally aspirated engine ( stall speed 61 kt or less ) Rotorcraft with 6 lb per square foot main rotor discs loading limitation ( sea level standard day ) Weight : 2,700 lb or less ( seaplanes 3,375 or less ) Seats : 3 or less Unpressurized The restricted category allows a plane to not meet certain requirements under the normal regulations . The aircraft must meet one of the following conditions : <URL> Requirements of any regular category , except any that are " inappropriate " for the aircraft 's purpose Armed Forces aircraft modified for a special purpose US Armed Forces surplus aircraft can also be certified under one of the below conditions . The FAA has some leeway to waive requirements or add additional ones . <URL> Designed and constructed in the US , satisfies certain regulations Counterpart of previously certified civil aircraft , complies with those regulations Special certificates are issued for cases where the aircraft is not certified under the regular categories . These allow operation of certain aircraft for certain purposes . The experimental certificate is for special cases . Experimental certificates Research and development Showing compliance with regulations Crew training Exhibition Air racing Market surveys Operating amateur-built aircraft Operating primary kit-built aircraft Operating light-sport aircraft The <URL> certificate is for light aircraft that may be operated under special conditions . There are 5 categories of LSA . Light sport certificates Airplanes Gliders Powered parachutes Weight-shift-control aircraft ( commonly called trikes ) Lighter-than-air aircraft ( balloons and airships )
The simple answer that covers the majority of engines is that a fan has a shroud . The possible exception are unducted fans or <URL> , which are a hybrid between a turboprop and a fan engine . A more scientific answer is based on the difference in disc loading : How much power per disc area can be pumped into the fan for propulsion . For propellers , this is distinctively less than for fans . Some examples : Cessna 172 with O-320 engine ( 150 hp ) and McCauley 1C160 prop ( 1.9 m diameter ) : 39.45 kW/m ² . P-51D with Packard-Merlin 1650 ( 1590 hp ) and Hamilton-Standard prop ( 3.4 m diameter ) : 130.59 kW/m ² . Lockheed C-130H Hercules with Allison T-56 engine ( 4590 hp ) and Aeroproducts propeller ( 4.1 m diameter ) : 259.25 kW/m ² . With jets , this comparison needs power when thrust is listed . Therefore , we make the heroic assumption that the speed at the fan is Mach 0.4 in static conditions and thrust is split according to bypass ratio ( which is completely imprecise but will do for the purpose here ) : BAe 146 with <URL> ( 31 kN static thrust , 5.7:1 bypass ratio and 1.02 m fan diameter ) : 4254.35 kW/m ² . Boeing 747-200 with <URL> ( 213 kN static thrust , 5:1 bypass ratio and 2.34 m fan diameter ) : 5388.74 kW/m ² . Boeing 777 with <URL> ( 388.8 kN thrust at take-off , 8.4:1 bypass ratio and 3.124 m fan diameter ) : 6077.23 kW/m ² . I guess by now you see where this is heading : Turbofans are simply a different class when thrust per frontal area is concerned . And for this to be possible , three conditions must be met : A well-designed intake which produces uniform flow over the engine face . The shroud is only the consequence of providing the fan with an intake . A high <URL> of the fan/propeller ( the ratio of the total blade area of the propeller to the disk swept out when the prop turns ) High dynamic pressure at the engine face , so the engine power can be absorbed by the fan/propeller . Note that those conditions depend on each other : Without the solidity , much less power could be absorbed . Without the intake , the supersonic flow at the fan tips would produce <URL> . Now for the crazy ones . The misfits . The rebels . The troublemakers . The round pegs in the square holes : Antonov 70 with <URL> ( 14,000 hp and 4.5 m prop diameter ) : 656.4 kW/m ² . MD-81 with GE36 UDF ( <URL> ) : 803 kW/m ² . Here it is hard to make a clear call whether these are fans or propellers . Their proper name " propfans " hints at that already . A last word on terminology Efficiency is a measure how much effort is needed for a certain result . An efficient prop needs less power per unit of thrust produced . It has <URL> , turns slowly and has a big diameter . A subsonic fan would be more efficient , but would create much less thrust for a given size . If you want to express the capacity for thrust creation at a specific diameter , use disk loading , not efficiency .
Sometimes they do add temporary tanks . <URL> of what Hawaiian Airlines had to do to get their fleet of 717 's over the Pacific because they did not have the range . I do n't have the answer to your question specifically , but I would guess they either add temporary tanks and go from <URL> which is not much further than max-range , or take the long haul through the US and Europe . There 's a <URL> about this .
Stall was an unfortunate choice of words for an engine that quits suddenly since the aerodynamic stall means something different1 . To a non-pilot , a stall can best be described as the situation where there is not enough air flowing over the wings to create the amount of lift needed to hold up the airplane . The main reason that student pilots practice stalls is to learn the telltale signs that occur just before it happens and to make the recovery procedure automatic . If pilots can recognize an impending stall , they can take corrective action to either avoid the stall altogether or to recover as quickly as possible . Outside of training , inadvertent stalls typically only occur shortly before landing and after takeoff , when the pilot gets distracted while already at a slow speed . In both of these situations the airplane is very close to the ground , immediately requiring the correct action from the pilot in order to avoid a crash . This needs to be instinctive and corrected using <URL> so that it is accomplished as rapidly as possible . The next logical question is usually : How does a pilot fix an airplane that has stalled ? Fortunately , airplanes are designed so that even during a stall the tail is still effective2 and the pilot is able to use it to force the nose down . This makes the airplane go faster , since it is pointed down towards the ground , and gets more air moving over the wing which allows it to create enough lift for the airplane to start flying again . During practice it is usually pretty uneventful , but when it happens at a low altitude there may not be enough time to regain flying speed before the airplane crashes . For more information , AOPA has a great Safety Publication targeting flight instructors called <URL> which is available on their website . 1 However , the sail on a sailboat can also " stall " when there is n't enough wind and since they have been around since 3,000 BC I guess that technically this usage of the word applies to both situations . 2 There are some stalls in particular airplane designs known as deep stalls that can be unrecoverable . I do n't think that this is important when describing it to a layperson though .
Both DUAT ( DTC ) and DUATS ( CSC ) provide the same information . They are functionally equivalent . You also left one out : Lockheed-Martin operates a web-based briefing service at <URL> . Which you prefer to use for interactive access is largely an aesthetic consideration - as a pilot you can sign up for an account on each of these services , so the usual advice is to sign up for all of them and use the one you like better ( personally I used to prefer DTC 's DUAT interface , but the direct ( 1800wxbrief . com ) system is a now my preference for web-based briefings when I 'm not using ForeFlight ) . From a non-interactive standpoint , CSC DUATS has an API that can be used by other programs ( like ForeFlight ) to receive weather/NOTAMs/etc . and to file flight plans . This can be advantageous , however Lockheed-Martin has recently ( 2013 ) implemented an XML-based API that lets application developers directly communicate with the automated flight service system , and it is likely that this will be the preferred way to handle this sort of thing as time goes on .
end question
start question
Why is wing anti-ice in transport aircraft not required below -40 degrees Celsius ?
That -40 is SAT and in degrees Celsius . The reason that anti-ice is generally no longer needed below that temperature is because at that point , the air is so dry that there is n't enough moisture left to form frost or ice that will stick to the airframe or engine parts . Normally , it 's engine anti-ice , rather than wing anti-ice , that is still on when you get to the point in the climb that the temperature drops below -40 . At least in the 737 , the engine anti-ice is kept on continuously while the temperature is below +10 TAT and above -40 SAT and you 're in IMC or other visible moisture ( i.e. rain , snow , etc ) , while wing anti-ice is only used " as needed " to remove ice buildups from the wings . Also of note , the " below -40 is too cold " logic only exists in climb and cruise , not in a descent . The rationale there being , you do n't want to miss the transition from the air is no longer " too cold for icing " as you descend , and find out that your motors ARE now accumulating ice , when they start to act sick ... that makes your day entirely too interesting !
It does , but there is much less of it on the fuselage than on the wing . There are two ways how ice is accumulated on the aircraft 's structure : When flying through air containing <URL> , the water will freeze on impact . It does not make much of a difference whether the water impacts the fuselage nose or the leading edge of the wings and tail surfaces : It will form a sheet of clear ice . When flying through moist air at a temperature close to freezing , the <URL> will <URL> , so the moisture condenses and , if temperature allows , will form ice accumulations . Those in turn exacerbate the suction peaks , leading to more ice being collected . The wing 's leading edge shows the most pronounced suction peaks , so they will collect most ice . However , if the icing conditions are right , the fuselage nose will also pick up it 's share of ice . Along the length of the fuselage , pressure is similar to ambient , so it will collect ice only when sitting on the ground in freezing rain . <URL> Iced engine nacelle in the NASA Lewis ( now Glenn ) Research Center icing research tunnel ( picture <URL> ) . Here , water is sprayed into the tunnel and forms supercooled droplets . In both cases icing has nothing to do with the boundary layer - with supercooled water it is simple ballistics , while the second case of ice accumulation is dominated by the pressure of the flow around the aircraft .
The wing thickness is basically the distance between the upper and lower surface of the wing ( or airfoil ) . ` <URL> Source : NASA . The wing thickness is usually given as a percentage of the wing ( or airfoil ) chord ( the distance between the leading and trailing edge ) . This is to make it a non-dimensional quantity for ease of comparison across different scales .
For many medium and large sized jets the maximum gross takeoff weight is higher than the maximum landing weight . If the airplane has an emergency that requires an air return or other landing in the early part of flight , it is very likely overweight for landing . The plane has 3 options at this point : Land overweight Dump fuel ( if able ) Fly around at low altitude and high power to burn fuel For some airplanes , option 2 is not available . This includes airplanes that are not equipped to dump fuel ( not all airplanes have this capability or have the capability under MEL ) or are not approved to dump fuel at their current location and altitude . For these airplanes , only option 1 and 3 are available . The choice between option 1 and 2/3 comes down to what kind of emergency it is . If you have to be on the ground now , you wo n't care about being overweight , and will just put it down . If you have time and landing now is n't a priority , then you would choose to dump or burn fuel . If an airplane chooses to dump , they will generally choose one of two values of remaining fuel : fuel such that they land at the maximum landing weight absolute minimum safe fuel to land This choice comes down to how likely the landing will end in an accident . If you are sure the landing will be a non-event ( e.g. air return for anti-ice failure ) then you 'll likely just dump until landing wont be overweight . Conversely , if you have a control issue or something that may end badly , you want minimum fuel to lessen the potential for fire . In these cases the ARFF crew will spray the runway with foam to assist in reducing the fire potential .
I think most people would say the answer is no . Consider the <URL> as it relates to Aeronautics : 9 . Aeronautics . a. one of a pair of airfoils attached transversely to the fuselage of an aircraft and providing lift . b. both airfoils , taken collectively . The wings are the big airfoils which are responsible for generating most of the vertical lift . A colloquial test of this definition would be to grab a CFI and ask him/her to " point out the wings on this airplane to me . " They wo n't point out the propeller . ( Not a scientific experiment ) However , both wings and propellers are airfoils ( and so are the other wing-like surfaces such as the vertical and horizontal stabilizers ) . You might get some disagreement about whether those other surfaces are wings , but I believe the answer is still no . There is nothing to be gained by calling them wings , and only leads to ambiguity . We already have a word which describes lifting surfaces in-general , and again , it 's airfoil .
It does n't appear to be a patent thing . The main work on the chevron ( shaped nozzles ) was done by NASA . Every design decision in an aircraft is a compromise and this was no different . The addition of chevrons for noise suppression leads to a ( small ) increase in specific fuel consumption and Airbus considered it not worth it . Flightglobal quotes <URL> as saying : We did n't get a noise advantage from chevrons , and there is a specific fuel consumption penalty , so we 've not adopted them . Airbus seems to have gone in the insulation and high bypass route for reducing noise . From the same article : Goodrich is to build the engine nacelle for the A350 's GEnx engine , with Airbus supplying the composite inlet , which incorporates a " zero splice " acoustic inner barrel to provide a new level of fan-noise reduction . As an example of the acoustic treatment of nacelle in A320 family , <URL> : The thrust reverser structure was acoustically treated along approximately half of its internal surface . It was clear that increasing this acoustic area would increase the acoustic sound absorption and hence decrease the overall measurable exhaust noise . The inner fixed structure was redesigned with increased acoustic area . In addition , the support struts and several fairings were also modified to include acoustic treatment . The result was an increase in the acoustic area of the thrust reverser by approximately 2 square meters ( 21.5 sq ft ) . Airbus does use chevrons in some of the aircraft , like A321 along with nacelle acoustic improvements ; however , the chevrons are available only in the inner ( core ) nozzle . The package is available as standard for CFM powered A321 aircraft and options are available for A320 . The image below shows a A321 with chevron nozzles . <URL> Image from <URL> According to <URL> : The noise reduction package is currently offered as the basic standard on all CFM powered Airbus A321 aircraft . It is also optional on all the other A320 Family aircraft .
All wings warp . The extent of warping is one restriction which limits the fast side of the <URL> . Once aircraft designers realized that thick wings have less drag , they tried to build their wings as stiff as possible . Stiff wings allow to use airfoils with rear loading , will have <URL> and keep their shape even when operating at high dynamic pressure . Since the center of pressure moves chordwise on cambered airfoils depending on the angle of attack , any cambered wing will suffer from pitching moments around its axis of elasticity . This moment will <URL> and change the incidence of the outer wing sections . A stiff wing will suffer less twisting and stay closer to its ideal aerodynamic shape . Add an aileron , and another twisting moment is added on top . Now the wing twists opposite to the aileron deflection ! This can become so bad that most of the aileron 's effectiveness is lost as the wing is warped in a way which counteracts the lift change of the aileron . The <URL> uses this effect with an array of leading and trailing edge devices to actively warp the wing in the desired direction . Using computer-controlled deflections of small but very effective control surfaces , it creates a desired deformation of the wing for roll control . This can be compared to the effect a <URL> has on an aileron . The Flettner tab is a small control surface at the trailing edge of a larger control surface and is deflected by the pilot such that it moves the big control surface in opposite direction . It slightly reduces the effectiveness of the big control surface , but needs only a fraction of the stick force , thus helping to manually control big aircraft . Since the active wing warping of the X-53 depends on the proper functioning of the FCS and an array of movable devices , each with its own failure mode , I would hesitate to see this as a clear advantage . It allows , however , to control the aircraft at high dynamic pressure with minimal drag penalties .
How Boeing 747 is called Jumbo Jet ? The <URL> is the world 's first wide-body aircraft . For a long time , it was the world 's largest passenger aircraft1 . When Boeing was designing the 747 in mid-1960s , it expected that in the near future <URL> would become the norm . Hence , there would not be a need for the passenger version of 747 . Because of this , 747s were designed in a way that they can be easily converted into freighters . <URL> , being one of the first customers of 747 , wanted to fit two rows of cargo containers2 , instead of one . This meant that the fuselage had to be at least 16 feet wide , wider than any airliner at that time . This would have worked fine for cargo , but it would make loading and unloading passengers very time-consuming . To accommodate this , Boeing engineers designed two aisles , which ran parallel through the length of the aircraft , hence the term <URL> was coined . When the press noticed the huge size , they described it with the catchy term Jumbo Jet . It is also known as Queen of the Skies but that is not common . Do other airplanes have nicknames ? Airbus A380 dubbed as superjumbo by media . The only A380 sold as a business jet is called <URL> . Although there are n't official nicknames of airplanes , almost all airplanes earned <URL> . <URL> contains nicknames for mostly military aircraft . 1 <URL> as world 's largest passenger airplane in 2007 . 2 At that time , cargo containers were cubes that measured 8 feet ( 2.44 m ) per side .
My guess is that there was some circuitry that was playing up . While I 'm not sure about ' Wing Loops ' specifically , for what I think is a similar example the Airbus A320 series has fire loops in the engines . There are two fire loops . If I 'm right , it 's got little thermal sensors along way , which disrupt the current if they get too hot ( or if the wire is broken ) . Logic gates ensure that both loops must be ' high ' for the fire warning to go off . If one is not working , it works from a single input . Assuming both of these were working from the beginning , I think it throws a warning on the pilot information display if one triggers without setting off the other one . I 'd imagine that maintenance either disabled the faulty loop within those allowed by the Minimum Equipment List or by changing the part . If it was quick , it was probably the first , but they 're not going to go telling passengers that they disabled safety equipment :)
Could you create an aircraft using an jet engine/propeller/ducted fan on a gimbal ? Sure you ' could ' ; it is feasible by the laws of physics . But just because you can does not mean that you should . Setting up multiple points of lift on a manned aircraft seems like a good idea with a lot of advantages but is a Pandora 's Box of problems , the not the least of which is the grave risks of single point failure . Lift and control is totally reliant on balanced lift between multiple engines . Lose one engine and the craft departs from controlled flight and crashes . You better hope you have an ejection seat and/or parachute on board . Some solutions to these problems come in the form tiltrotor designs like the Agusta Westland 609 and the V-22 . But these aircraft have multiple redundancies in their design including a common transmission system between the rotors ; in case of a single engine failure , the good engine has enough power to drive both rotors . Tiltrotors can also glide like regular airplanes and utilize control surfaces during this and cruise flight . As a final note : Be careful in putting too much faith in Musk and other Silicon Valley whiz kids speculating about other design endeavors . The skills required to run a successful software company are often very different from that required to develop other artifacts like aircraft and automobiles , etc. . Musk was a genius with PayPal but nearly went bankrupt starting an electric car company and his development work with SpaceX has been punctuated with a series of spectacular failures . He also quietly withdrew from his proposed ' Hyperloop ' project , I suspect , because he really did n't understand what he was getting into there .
Fuel is stored in fuel tanks , which typically have two requirements : They must be sealed so as to contain the fuel in all probable flight attitudes . ( Ideally they will keep it contained in a few improbable ones too . ) They must have appropriate plumbing to get the fuel to the engines . ( There are some exceptions to this , but <URL> . ) Anti-Shock bodies are typically not fuel tanks - they meet neither requirement as they are not watertight ( fuel will just pour out of them ) , and there 's no plumbing to get the fuel out of , or for that matter into them . As " Exhibit A " , take a look at the anti-shock bodies around the 787 flap tracks &amp; actuators - Note that the anti-shock body is hollow , but unsealed . Any fuel ( or water ) in here would simply pour out the trailing edge when the flaps are extended . <URL>
Is an ELT required on any type of aircraft carrying passengers over water ? Generally , commercial transport aircraft are not required to carry an ELT . how are aircraft planned to be located after an accident over the ocean ? I believe pilots are expected to use radio to inform controllers of any emergency . If ATC are unable to contact an aircraft for an extended time , they instigate S&amp;R based on the last known location of the aircraft . The FDR and CVR are required to include an underwater location beacon ( ULB ) , though this is only short range and has limited duration . It is expected that , sometime in the future , commercial transport aircraft will be required to have automated systems that report their position frequently ( perhaps every 15 minutes ) References : <URL> <URL> <URL>
If we 're talking about large aircraft the answer is Powerful enough that you want to stay out of them . I refer you to <URL> in which a Cessna ( looks like a 172 ) was flown into the wake of a C-5 Galaxy . The Cessna was rolled through 360 degrees by the vortex . <URL> has shown that the rotational speed of wake vortices can exceed 150 miles per hour ( 130 knots ) . While the <URL> rates tornadoes based on damage a 150 mile per hour wind speed is in the range estimated for an EF3 tornado ( " Severe Damage " , defined as Entire stories of well-constructed houses destroyed ; severe damage to large buildings such as shopping malls ; trains overturned ; trees debarked ; heavy cars lifted off the ground and thrown ; structures with weak foundations are badly damaged . ) - This should reduce your desire to be anywhere near the wake vortex of a large aircraft . If we 're talking about smaller aircraft ( say two Cessnas flying in trail , and the trailing aircraft somehow gets below the lead ) it 's strong enough to be unpleasant - the wake from the leading aircraft will shake and rock the wings of the trailing aircraft , but it probably wo n't flip the trailing aircraft over . Many pilots are familiar with encountering their own wake at some point in flight training : <URL> . If the weather and timing of the turn are " just right " and you produced a circle rather than an oval yo will hit the descending wake from your outside wing as you roll level at the 360 degree mark . This produces a slight " bump " at the end of the maneuver ( <URL> ) .
The " Degrees " of flap deployment generally refers to the deflection from the neutral ( 0 ° - flush with the rest of the wing ) position of the flaps . For most GA aircraft this is an actual angular measurement - 10 ° of flaps corresponds to the flaps lowering 10 ° from their neutral position , but the degree of travel can also be given as a percentage ( 0-100 % ) . The aircraft 's maintenance manual will specify the actual travel ( and specify how it is to be measured ) , and if specific position detents are provided there will usually be " rigging limits " specified for where each position stop must be &amp; how accurate the control position must be at each stop .
As @fooot mentions in the comments it means <URL> , it is not a reference between the difference of <URL> and <URL> as many watch brands commonly reference now . This is a regulation that is intended to clarify the difference between a second hand that references the main dial and one that is on a sub dial . Historically planes may have <URL> where the large second hand is for the chronometer and not the elapsed time clock . <URL> ( <URL> ) You can find what looks like one of the <URL> . It references FAR 91.33 ( which seems to no longer be in place ) <URL> . I can not find any FAA legal interpretation that further defines " sweeping seconds " . On a bit of a side note , <URL> .
The control forces are there by design . All airliners have artificial force feel from springs , dampers etc. . A B747 flies through the skies a lot faster than a Cessna 172 and bad things could happen if it were easy to deflect the flying controls at M 0.85 . The B737 elevator is a good case in point . It has <URL> ( artificial feel ) provided by a spring device , and the spring gradients stiffen up as a function of airspeed . At higher speeds it is quite hard to deflect the column by pushing/pulling and much easier to use the trim button to control the pitch . For Level D simulator control forces we measured the forces necessary to deflect the column fully when trimmed in mid position , which turned out to be a serious body-building exercise : About 200 N at zero airspeed About 500 N at 400 knots 20,000 ft. ( Measurement taken on ground with a pressure hose attached to the pitot tube , and aircraft on jacks with the landing gear retracted ) . By contrast , helicopter flying controls are light because helicopters are inherently unstable and a lot of stick action is necessary , particularly in the hover . In most helicopters the feel forces can be switched off completely with the trim button , resulting in a very light stick , perfectly OK with the relatively docile response of the helicopter . But a 747 is a stable airframe . A fast aircraft with large control deflections results in high accelerations , which can result in Pilot Induced Oscillations or structural damage to the airframe . The two measurements of B737 control column , digitised from the original plots and on the same scale : column position on the x-axis , force on the y-axis . By design , force required to deflect the column fully from about mid position is about 40 lbf at zero knots , 100 lbf at 400 knots . This is from an artificial q-feel system and the feel is implemented by design . The vertical distance between the sides of the curve is caused by friction . <URL> At 0 knots : Notice that around mid the spring gradient is very steep : the breakout , to indicate neutral position . Then between 0 and 5 inch a spring gradient of 4 lbf/inch . Beyond 5 inch a relatively flat gradient , to make it not too hard to deflect the column fully . <URL> At 400 knots : it is made hard to fully deflect the column . 100 lbf pull from a seated position is nothing to sneeze at .
$ V_X $ published in the manual is $ V_X $ for flaps up . $ V _ { X _ { F10 } } $ will be slower than $ V _ { X _ { UP } } $ . Most likely , the speed in the procedure is , or is very close to $ V _ { X _ { F10 } } $ . $ V_X $ ( speed for angle of best climb ) occurs where the excess thrust ( $ T$ - $ D$ ) is the highest . Refer to the graph below : $ D$ is Induced drag ( $ D_I $ , varies with $ \ frac { 1 } { v ^ 2 } $ ) + Parasite drag ( $ D_P $ , varies with $ v ^ 2 $ ) . By extending the flaps , you are increasing only $ D_P $ and the graph describing $ D$ ( $ D _ { tot } $ in the graph ) moves upwards to the left . This means that the point for $ V _ { MD } $ moves to the left . Since $ V_X $ is found at max $ T - D$ it varies with thrust too ( which will vary differently , depending on the type of propulsion system ) , and is not automatically found at $ V _ { MD } $ , but the two speeds generally move together in the same direction . There 's also another , albeit marignal , effect ( that i did not put in the graph ) to take into consideration for the first 10-20 ft , and that 's the ground effect . In ground effect , the aircrafts $ D_I $ will be lower , further moving the $ D$ graph to the left , and downwards , resulting in a lower $ V _ { MD } $ , and therefore generally also lower $ V_X $
<URL> regulates scheduled airline operations in icing conditions . It requires airframe ice protection systems in order to operate in " conditions conductive to airframe icing " , which they define as : visible moisture at or below a static air temperature of 5 ° C or a total air temperature of 10 ° C , unless the approved Airplane Flight Manual provides another definition . This essentially means that any airline that can operate in IMC is going to be subject to this requirement unless they have very niche operations at low altitudes in warm lattitudes where they can stay below the 10 C level when in IMC . Aircraft operated by airlines that operate in IMC at temperatures colder than 10 C must either have an ice detection system or a means of detecting the first formation of ice on the airframe and then activate ice protection systems or they must , in the absence of detection , always operate their ice protection when operation in conditions conductive to airframe icing . For smaller on-demand operations operating under part 135 , <URL> regulates flight into icing conditions . This regulation requires that any airplance flying into forecast icing ( IFR only ) or known icing conditions ( VFR or IFR ) has functioning de-ice or anti-ice protection . This means a 135 operation ferrying passengers from Miami into the Bahamas probably does n't have to worry about this , but a IFR 135 operation anywhere it gets cold probably does . For non-121 and non-135 operations in airplanes with 20 passenger seats or more , the applicable regulation is <URL> and reads exactly like the part 135 regulation . Summary Combined , parts 121 , 125 and 135 regulate the majority of commercial operations . The requirements of part 121 realistically mean that any airplane suitable for scheduled airline operations is equipped with ice protection . Part 135 can utilize a broader range of aircraft and while ice protection is not required it is quite limiting for the operation if it is not present ( no flight into known or forecast icing conditions under IFR ) . This means that all airline aircraft ( part 121 ) are certified for FIKI but not all passenger airplanes ( operated under part 125 or 135 ) are certified for FIKI ( and can not operate in those conditions if not equipped ) . Regs § 121.321 Operations in icing . ( a ) When operating in conditions conducive to airframe icing , compliance must be shown with paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) , or ( 2 ) , or ( 3 ) of this section . ( 1 ) The airplane must be equipped with a certificated primary airframe ice detection system . ( i ) The airframe ice protection system must be activated automatically , or manually by the flightcrew , when the primary ice detection system indicates activation is necessary . ... ( 2 ) Visual cues of the first sign of ice formation anywhere on the airplane and a certificated advisory airframe ice detection system must be provided . ( i ) The airframe ice protection system must be activated when any of the visual cues are observed or when the advisory airframe ice detection system indicates activation is necessary , whichever occurs first . ... ( 3 ) If the airplane is not equipped to comply with the provisions of paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of this section , then the following apply : ( i ) When operating in conditions conducive to airframe icing , the airframe ice protection system must be activated prior to , and operated during , the following phases of flight : ... ( ii ) During any other phase of flight , the airframe ice protection system must be activated and operated at the first sign of ice formation anywhere on the airplane , unless the Airplane Flight Manual specifies that the airframe ice protection system should not be used or provides other operational instructions . § 135.227 Icing conditions : Operating limitations . ( c ) No pilot may fly under IFR into known or forecast light or moderate icing conditions or under VFR into known light or moderate icing conditions , unless -- ( 1 ) The aircraft has functioning deicing or anti-icing equipment protecting each rotor blade , propeller , windshield , wing , stabilizing or control surface , and each airspeed , altimeter , rate of climb , or flight attitude instrument system ; ( 2 ) The airplane has ice protection provisions that meet section 34 of appendix A of this part ; or ( 3 ) The airplane meets transport category airplane type certification provisions , including the requirements for certification for flight in icing conditions .
For your specific example , <URL> ( Personnel Licensing ) , section 2.2.4 covers " Validation and Conversion of Foreign Licenses and Ratings . " It states that a holder of a license from a " Contracting State in accordance with ICAO Annex 1 " ( this includes the United States ) is eligible for " validation " of their foreign license . The validation process involves presenting the appropriate documentation of your license , ratings and logbook . For more than just PPL privileges , you must also pass a " skill test " and demonstrate the required knowledge and ability . The conversion ( " validation certificate " ) gives you the same ratings you had on your US license and is valid for 1 year . The FAA has a very similar policy for foreign-to-US license conversion , covered in <URL> . As in the Philippines , the FAA does not require a skills test for private pilot privileges , but a written knowledge test is required for conversion of an instrument rating . <URL> discusses conversion from EASA ( Europe ) to FAA ( US ) . Most other ICAO states recognize each other 's licenses in a similar manner . In all cases you have to present your license and proof of experience , and in some cases pass a written test and/or checkride . I have n't look up the exact regulations for , say , EASA ( Europe ) or CAAC ( China ) but I 'm sure they are n't far off from the examples above . In reality diplomatic considerations probably also come into play : a holder of an Iranian license would probably run into problems attempting to convert/validate their license in Israel , even though both are ICAO-contracting states , since they are n't on very good political terms to say the least . But this will likely be the exception rather than the rule . ( There are only 3 <URL> : Dominica , Liechtenstein and Tuvalu . )
The icing occurs due to the presence of supercooled liquid droplets . From <URL> : The condition most favorable for very hazardous icing is the presence of many large , supercooled water drops ... Thus , heaviest icing usually will be found at or slightly above the freezing level where temperature is never more than a few degrees below freezing . For ice to form on the aircraft , the following conditions are required : The presence of liquid water i.e. rain or cloud droplets . The temperature at aircraft structure should be at or below freezing point . Now , as the altitude increases , temperature decreases . Using this , the best way to avoid these conditions would be to either : Fly above the altitude where the temperature is below -15 degrees , where supercooled water drops are not present ( they would 've frozen already ) , or Fly below the altitude where the temperature is above freezing point , where the water droplets , if present are not supercooled .
end question
start question
What is a demonstrated crosswind component ?
A demonstrated crosswind component is highest crosswind ( corrected to make it 90 ° ) which has been shown to be possible to safely land by a test pilot . It shall not require exceptional skill by an ordinary pilot , however it does not mean every pilot will be able to do so . It is also NOT a limit ( contrary to what some say ) - if the pilot does decide to land higher crosswinds , they can do so ( but please take caution ) . This number may not necessarily be the highest crosswind component that it 's possible to land in -- it just has to be above the minimum capabilities required in the regulations . For example , say an aircraft , flown perfectly ( yes , we 're dreaming ) , was capable of handling a 30 knot crosswind component ( no gust , ISA conditions ) , the manufacturer only needs to demonstrate safe landing with a crosswind component of one-fifth of the reference stall speed in the landing configuration . This would be : 10 knots @ 50KIAS VS0 12 knots @ 60KIAS VS0 14 knots @ 70KIAS VS0 15 knots @ 75KIAS VS0 <URL> : ( a ) A 90 degree cross-component of wind velocity , demonstrated to be safe for taxiing , takeoff , and landing must be established and must be not less than 0.2 VS0 .
Qualifier : I am a master parachute rigger and taught sport skydiving for 10 years . Standard jump altitude is 12,000 feet AGL - this is one turn of the standard parachutist 's altimeter . This height provides 1 minute of freefall , is within reach of a Cessna with a decent engine and does not require supplementary oxygen . For most places , this means an operating altitude between 12,000 and 15,000 feet MSL . Dropzones in high areas like Denver will reduce their jump altitude to 9,500 feet AGL mainly because the piston-powered planes take too long to climb higher and/or the upper part of the climb runs into the oxygen zone .
Modern civil cargo flights can be divided into three categories : containerized-load , large-load , and feeder . Containerized-load cargo ( ULDs , standard pallet loads ) This is your typical UPS or FedEx flight ; their flight crew complements are no different than a passenger aircraft flying the same route -- a captain and F/O for a short haul route such as one of the UPS A300s , and a captain , F/O , relief captain , and relief F/O ( " heavy " crew ) for a long-haul flight that needs them , although they may prefer to break such a flight up into segments , performing crew changes on the ground . ( Flight engineers are n't counted here since those aircraft are basically retired now . ) Bulk-load cargo These loads ( vehicles , large equipment , live animals , etc ) require more attention , so loadmasters are more commonly seen on these flights . However , the FAA does not consider a loadmaster " flight crew " in the sense that there are no licenses or ratings for the position ; the training and qualifications for loadmasters are completely up to their employer . Feeder aircraft Feeder aircraft are often turboprop types ( ATRs , for instance ) that are too small to use standard-sized ULDs , so they are loaded in bulk on the main deck . They use a captain and first officer pairing as well . Either way , most cargo aircraft have room for supernumeraries ( aka jump seaters ) , at least on the cockpit jumpseats if not in a forward or upper deck passenger cabin as well ; long-haul aircraft will also have crew rest bunks fitted to that forward cabin area for use by " heavy " crews .
There are contingency measures for PF incapacitation when PNF is absent from the cockpit . This includes measures for cockpit decompression ( e.g. window breaking ) These measures are balanced with measures to prevent unauthorised passengers forcing entry to the cockpit , including by using force on cabin crew ( or PNF ) to make them open the cockpit door . Some of these measures are at the airline 's discretion . Cockpit door locks According to <URL> A locked door is opened by a flight crew inside the cockpit but can also be unlocked by cabin crew entering a keycode from the outside . Crew inside the cockpit can manually override it to keep a door locked for up to five minutes . " In the case of an electrical supply failure the door is automatically unlocked , but remains closed , " reads the manual . It is equipped with a manual escape hatch but that is only accessible from the inside . According to <URL> safety protocols mandated by Congress in the U.S. after the Sept. 11 attacks ... eliminate the use of keys for entering the cockpit - assuring that no errant passenger can wrestle a key away from a crew member . ... If a member of the flight crew does n't open the locked cockpit door from the inside , according to a manual for the Airbus A320 <URL> , the door can also be unlocked by the cabin crew outside the cockpit by entering a two - to seven-digit code , pre-programmed by the airline , on a keypad . Cockpit occupancy Guardian : Protocols and standard procedures around what happens when a pilot leaves the cockpit mid-flight vary according to country and airline . A flight attendant taking the seat of an absent pilot to ensure there are always two people in the cockpit , and/or blocking access to the open door with a trolley , are often seen on US flights , but not necessarily on others , [ Aviation expert Neil Handsford ] said . For instance it is not a requirement on Australian flights . LA Times : American experts say the typical procedure is for a flight attendant to use a food cart to block access to the cockpit when the pilot opens the door to leave . A flight attendant is supposed to remain in the cockpit and open the door for the pilot upon his or her return . ... Airbus Manual The Airbus manual referred to above says The Cockpit Door Locking System ( CDLS ) provides a means of electrically locking and unlocking the cockpit door . This system is mainly composed of : A keypad , located in the forward cabin , near the cockpit door , A toggle switch , located in the center pedestal 's Cockpit Door panel , A control unit and its CKPT DOOR CONT normal panel , located on the overhead panel , A buzzer . The keypad enables the cabin crew to request access to the cockpit . There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request ( Refer to PRO-SUP-25 Cockpit Door Operation - General ) . The toggle switch enables the flight crew to lock or unlock the cockpit door , following an access request , thereby allowing or denying the entry to the cockpit . The cockpit door control unit is the system controller , in charge of : Locking or unlocking the door latches , upon flight crew action . Unlocking the door , in case of cockpit decompression ( the door then opens towards the cockpit under differential pressure ) . Indicating system failures of electrical latches and pressure sensors . Activating the access request buzzer and turning on the keypad LEDs . The buzzer sounds in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s to indicate that a routine access request has been made , or sounds continuously if an emergency access procedure has been initiated . The keypad is used to sound the buzzer in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s ( 3 s by default ) , by entering a zero to seven-digit code , as programmed by the airline , followed by the ' # ' key . It is also used to enter the two to seven-digit emergency code , followed by the ' # ' key , when the flight crew does not respond . There is also an <URL> that shows how the cockpit door lock operates normally and in the case of pilot incapacitation Abbreviations PF = Pilot flying , PNF = Pilot not flying .
To be more general , a vortex generator is a small angled plate installed on an outer surface of an aerodynamic body . The angle of the plate causes the air to swirl , creating a vortex behind it . This effect allows the air flow to remain " attached " to the surface even at points where the flow without a vortex would separate from the surface . One of the most common uses of vortex generators is on aircraft wings forward of the ailerons . When the aircraft wing <URL> , the flow detaches from the wings . This means that the flow will detach before it reaches the ailerons , making them ineffective . The use of vortex generators helps the ailerons to provide control even if the rest of the wing is stalled . <URL> Of course , these also add drag , even when the wing is not stalling , so they are only added where needed . They are also used in other places , such as the engine , as in <URL> , and also <URL> .
A positioning flight is a flight for the sole purpose of positioning the aircraft to conduct another flight from another airport . This is often done when the aircraft finishes its day in one city , but is needed in a different city the following day because another plane has broken down . A positioning flight is technically a type of ferry flight , however the latter is a more broad term . Examples of ferry flights include delivery from the manufacturer , or flying to a different city for heavy maintenance . Both flights are generally conducted without fare-paying passengers on board , but sometimes extra airline staff are carried .
It 's tough to tell based on your question , but I think you are talking about an inspection due to an over-G reported on a flight either by the pilot or the flight control system post-flight report . Maintainers will do inspections of known stress points on the aircraft to look for breaks , cracking or loosened parts and then declare it safe for flight or fix anything out of tolerance . For a low level over-G , this could be pulling a few panels . For higher level over-Gs it could be 8 hours worth of work
These weights are all based on the maximum an aircraft will ever see . The maximum allowed weight of passengers ( + luggage ) and cargo ( called payload weight ) is the difference between the Operational empty weight ( about 270,000 kg ) and the Zero fuel weight ( 361,000 kg ) . This means the payload weight is about 91,000 kg . The passenger and crew weight can be estimated by the following numbers : 175 lbs per pax + 30 lbs of baggage for short medium range distance ( or 40 lbs for long range ) 175 lbs per crew member + 30 lbs of baggage $ ^ 1 $ So let 's say that ( for easier calculations ) the average passenger + luggage weight is 100 kg . When we assume 530 passengers and 25 crew , then the weight would be $ 555 \ times100 = 55,000 kg $ . That leaves 36,000 kg for cargo . All the weights listed are , of course , maximum weights . That means that an aircraft in general does not meet these values . The maximum fuel weight is the difference between maximum ramp weight and zero fuel weight ( which is $ 562,000-361 ,000 = 201,000 kg $ ) . About 2,000 kg is taken for the time the engines are running while the aircraft did not yet take of ( for taxiing etc ) . This is the difference between maximum ramp weight and MTOW . The amount of fuel varies so much per flight that I really ca n't say anything about it . It depends on the air pressure in the flight path ( aircraft choose their routes depending on that , for a faster flight ) , weather along the route , and much more . For quite a good overview I suggest for you to read <URL> . I hope I answered your question sufficiently . $ ^ 1 $ Source : Jan Roskam , Airplane design , Part I : Preliminary Sizing of Airplanes ( 1985 )
Sadly , that information 's pretty much impossible to give a general answer for , as it changes from batch to batch : Refineries blend crude " to taste " as well as pricetag , so to speak , and the crude blend used as the refinery feedstock may change from batch to batch . Process conditions in catalytic crackers and reformers can change depending on the point in the batch you 're at , the incoming feedstock , and even the history of prior batches ( say the last thing that ran through the cat cracker degraded the catalyst slightly ... ) Jet fuels as-delivered may be a blend of multiple refinery batches and even the output of multiple refiners Pipeline batching can also lead to subtle changes in fuel composition as it is transported -- pipeline operators try to " cut off " as much of the transmix as they can , but 100 % is n't easy without wasting tons of fuel as transmix . ( Some pipeline operators will stick a " dumb pig " between high spec products , such as jet fuel , and their neighbors in the pipeline , but this is by no means universal . ) That said , you can make some determinations based off of <URL> : The fuel consists of medium-weight hydrocarbons , from C9 to C16 The only specified aromatic component is napthalene , with a maximum concentration of 3 % No additives ( anti-static , FSII , anti-oxidation , biocidal ) are specified -- these are generally variable from batch-to-batch , depending on the specific purchaser ( a large airport might get to spec these directly with the refiner , while the small GA ' dromes are at the mercy of whoever pulls up in the fuel truck )
According to <URL> : 5.7.4 . ARRIVAL PROCEDURES : 5.7.4.1 . DESCENTS : 5.7.4.1.1 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ( Overhead , Downwind , Beam , etc ) : High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach . ... 5.7.4.1.3 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ASSAULT -- High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach to an assault landing zone . Note : A separate penetration descent profile may also be flown to Mackall AAF ( HFF ) , see Pope Aircrew In-flight guide for procedures . 5.7.4.1.3.1 . Arrival Procedures : 5.7.4.1.3.1.1 . When sequenced , commence penetration descent to a tactical approach , ARA , or normal pattern . Request desired approach as early as possible upon switching to Pope Tower . 5.7.4.1.3.1.2 . Remain at or above 2500 ' MSL until within 5 NM of Pope . Do not descend below 720 ' MSL until given clearance to land from Pope Tower . See also fooot 's <URL> to another question , where he describes a tactical descent as an extremely steep descent , and a tactical approach as an extremely steep approach . According to other sources , the technique in question might also be called ( depending on the exact landing circumstances ) an <URL> , a <URL> or even a <URL> .
The squawk code is assigned by Air Traffic Control to the aircraft and is used for radar identification purposes . It is a 4 digit octal number ( each digit has a value in the range [ 0-7 ] ) . The flight crew enters the assigned squawk code into the transponder control panel and the radar extracts the code using a Mode-A interrogation ( or UF5 / UF21 interrogation in case of a Mode S radar / transponder ) . The extracted squawk code can then be used to correlate the radar reply with an aircraft 's flight plan . A number of squawk codes are reserved for generic purposes and emergencies . These codes are used in emergency , or when no flight plan correlation is needed . Some generic codes are : 1000 - Conspicuity code signalling the Flight Data Processing system to use Mode-S Aircraft ID for flight plan correlation . ( Primarily in Europe ) 1200 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( USA &amp; Canada ) 2000 - Used when entering a Secondary Surveillance Area and no code has yet been assigned . 7000 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( ICAO , USA &amp; Canada use 1200 instead ) 7500 - Unlawful interference / hijack ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7600 - Radio communication lost ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7700 - General emergency ( ICAO , worldwide )
Try visualizing the pattern . In your mind 's eye , overlay the airspace around the airport with the track that you want your flight to take , visualizing all sections of the traffic pattern from your point of view as you fly . Now check to see if there are visual references on the ground eg buildings , roads , parks , golf courses , etc. which align with this pattern you are visualizing and use them as additional aid for pattern legs and turn points . If the airplane drifts off this track , adjust your crab angle and/or your rate of turn in order to track correctly . As mentioned above , ground reference maneuvers such as rectangular patterns , turns about a point , S-turns etc are very useful and may be good basic practice for training yourself to visualize the pattern in space .
How do you define a crew duty day ? When does it start and when does it end ? In the most simplistic terms , a crew 's duty day can be defined in two parts : the " flight duty period " ( FDP ) and the " flight time " . The FDP begins when the crew " clocks in " for their shift . There might be administrative duties to accomplish prior to flying , so " flight time " has not yet started . The FDP ends when the last flight that they operate blocks in . The Flight Time begins and ends with each Block Out to Block In , and there might be several individual flights within a single FDP . Once the FDP is over , they might still be required to attend to admin duties , but their FDP " clock " has stopped ticking . Their " rest " clock has not yet started , just because their FDP has ended . ( Some of these terms and definitions will be expanded upon later . ) Also what are the legal limits ( in other words how long can a crew duty day last in terms of hours ) ? This is an extremely complicated question , and the rest of this answer will be devoted to this , in conjunction with your other sub-questions . [ Are there ] standardized set of rules ? Not necessarily rules , per se ... but the ICAO does have a lot of documentation about duty/rest , fatigue management , and the effects on safety . Although the ICAO can not publish laws , most of it 's member nations write their aviation laws in close conjunction with ICAO 's recommendations . These nations have ratified treaties stating that they will " abide by " most of the ICAO 's recommendations . does each country define its own rules ? Yes , each regulatory body has its own laws for determining duty/rest requirements . Most are very similar , and based on the ICAO 's body of documentation and research . Narrowing this down even further , each carrier develops it 's own policies and procedures that are based on ( and approved by ) it 's parent nation 's regulatory body . What happens when you fly say from the US to Australia ? Which set of rules prevail ? You will follow the policies of your air carrier , which are enforced by your carrier 's country of registration . Let 's start with the US . Ok , within the US , most of the rules regarding duty/rest for Part 121 Air Carriers are enumerated in <URL> . There are some " All Cargo " duty/rest requirements under Part 121 <URL> ( Domestic ) , <URL> ( Flag ) , and <URL> ( Supplemental ) ; however , carriers can chose to use these 121 Subparts OR Part 117 , but not both . Once they make that choice ( listed in their GOM/OpSpecs and approved by the FAA ) , they are stuck with it . What is the exact definition of a " crew duty day " ? As noted in the comments of the question , this is not a legal term within the US FARs . Under Part 117 , we find the definition for these related terms : Calendar day means a 24-hour period from 0000 through 2359 using Coordinated Universal Time or local time . Duty means any task that a flightcrew member performs as required by the certificate holder , including but not limited to flight duty period , flight duty , pre - and post-flight duties , administrative work , training , deadhead transportation , aircraft positioning on the ground , aircraft loading , and aircraft servicing . Flight duty period ( FDP ) means a period that begins when a flightcrew member is required to report for duty with the intention of conducting a flight , a series of flights , or positioning or ferrying flights , and ends when the aircraft is parked after the last flight and there is no intention for further aircraft movement by the same flightcrew member . A flight duty period includes the duties performed by the flightcrew member on behalf of the certificate holder that occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without a required intervening rest period . Examples of tasks that are part of the flight duty period include deadhead transportation , training conducted in an aircraft or flight simulator , and airport/standby reserve , if the above tasks occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without an intervening required rest period . Rest period means a continuous period determined prospectively during which the flightcrew member is free from all restraint by the certificate holder , including freedom from present responsibility for work should the occasion arise . From there , it can get extremely complicated and an airline 's crew scheduler probably could not do their job without the aid of a computer . Flight crewmembers are restricted to a certain number of hours in a duty period , and there are limits to cumulative hours as well : total Flight Time can not exceed : -- 100 hours in any 672 consecutive hours or -- 1,000 hours in any 365 consecutive calendar day period . And then ... total Flight Duty Period can not exceed : 60 flight duty period hours in any 168 consecutive hours or 190 flight duty period hours in any 672 consecutive hours . They are required to have a certain number of hours of " rest " in between these duty periods , and those rest hou
Rotor is the generic name for something in rotation . It can be used for a propeller , the rotating wing of an helicopter , the rotating elements of a compressor or a turbine , etc. . Rotor ( rotating ) is the antonym of stator ( stationary ) . Propeller blades are airfoils ( small wings ) which accelerate air to create lift and thrust . Sometimes a propeller is referred as a propeller disc to designate the whole disc swept by the blades , and the inner cone . <URL> <URL> . Propeller blades are fixed on the rotation axis , except for the pitch angle . Rotor blades ( rotorcraft ) are not fixed , they have some freedom in flapping and leading-lagging . <URL> Source : <URL> These freedom degrees are necessary to prevent vibrations due to varying forces encountered by a blade during a full turn . Rotor blades of a gas turbine are like propeller blades , though for the turbine itself they may work by " impulse " and by reaction ( acceleration by converging nozzle ) , and more generally by a mix of both principles . <URL> Often the inner part of a rotor holding the blades is referred as the rotor disc . Blades of a turbine engine are fixed like blades of a propeller , though in some cases they are not locked on the disc mechanically , but dynamically by the centrifugal force . The distinction between rotor and propeller is more a matter of custom . Rotor is quite generic , you ca n't be wrong using it for a spinning device . Propeller is rather specific to the mean of creating horizontal thrust within a fluid and with the objective to move an object . A house fan is not a propeller . You may find a similar distinction between ( aerodynamic ) lift ( and drag ) and thrust , created by the same phenomena : Fluid acceleration . The distinction is here in the way the aerodynamic force is symbolically broken down into geometrical components .
Wind affects your flight path angle by affecting how far you travel while you 're descending . With no thrust from the engine an airplane is falling out of the sky at a roughly constant rate of descent . The wind direction affects the groundspeed , and thus the distance covered between when the engine failed &amp; when the aircraft hits the ground . This is more directly observable from outside the airplane . Consider these 4 scenarios on a post-it note : The airplane has lost its engine , and the pilot is flying at best-glide airspeed while holding a constant magnetic heading ( making no wind corrections ) : <URL> No Wind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( about 45 degrees in my drawing ) , and travels in a straight line over the ground ( the " ground track " ) while doing so . Headwind The aircraft descends along a steeper glide path ( about 60 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate the headwind is slowing its progress over the ground . Since it 's a direct headwind ( right on the nose ) the ground track is still straight . Tailwind The aircraft descends along a shallower glide path ( about 30 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate it has a tailwind , which is making it move faster over the ground . Since it 's a direct tailwind the ground track is still straight here too . Crosswind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( because it has neither a headwind nor a tailwind ) , but the crosswind pushes the ground track ( in this case into the inconveniently-placed tree ) . Your endurance ( time aloft ) will be similarly unaffected : If you 've set the aircraft up at its optimum glide angle-of-attack ( best glide airspeed ) the descent rate is pretty much the same regardless of whether you have a headwind , tailwind , or crosswind . You will fall the same distance in the same amount of time , it 's just a matter of how far you travel while you 're falling ( which determines where you land ) . You can test this for yourself in an airplane by doing engine-out drills : Line up with a headwind , pull the throttle out , and pitch for the aircraft 's best glide speed . Note your vertical speed ( rate of descent ) , and then repeat the test in the opposite direction ( tailwind ) or at 90 degrees to your original course ( direct crosswind ) : The vertical speed will be effectively the same .
A monitored approach is a special kind of instrument approach involving added verbal call outs and increased monitoring of the airplane and is typically conducted when weather is below a certain threshold . For example , a crew may be required to fly a monitored approach if the weather is below 3/4 mile vis and the captain has less than 100 hours in type , or in any case with the weather below ILS Category I minimums . It is also specific to multi-crew aircraft and requires at least 2 pilots and in many cases an autopilot . In a crew environment , the pilots are typically designated as Pilot Flying ( PF ) and Pilot Not Flying ( PNF ) . In general the PF is flying and making commands of the PNF , and the PNF mans the radios and operates gear and flaps the command of the PF . More detail of this setup probably deserves its own question . To illustrate a monitored approach , I 'll describe on based on my companies procedures . The specific requirements can vary between operators based on crew training , aircraft equipment and approved opspecs . The monitored approach briefing We have identified the arrival airport current weather is 1200 RVR and obscured ceilings and we plan to fly the ILS to category II minimums . Myself and my first officer have both have current category 2 training , neither of us are high-minimums , and the aircraft has no MEL items effecting category 2 operations . We are legal to fly the approach , but company operations require we fly it as a monitored approach . Regardless of who has been PF and PNF up to this point , the first officer becomes the PF and the captain the PNF . The PF briefs the approach as normal except for : CAT II radar altitude minimums Low vis taxi routes if applicable The approach will be flown by the autopilot ( company specific ) Special autopilot considerations Required verbal call outs ( see below ) The monitored approach For my company , the autopilot had to be engaged in " CAT 2 " mode before glideslope intercept . This will vary by aircraft and company . For the approach , as noted earlier , the first officer is PF , captain is PNF . The PF duties are to monitor the autopilot and to execute the missed approach if the autopilot has problems . The PNF also monitors the autopilot . The pilots are monitoring the autopilot for performance and for indications it can not meet required tolerances for the approach . PF will call for gear and flaps as normal , except a non standard flap setting may be used for the approach ( e.g. we flew flaps 22 instead of 45 ) . Once configured for landing , the PF will call for " Landing checklist - to the line " ( company specific ) , this for us was the normal landing checklist with the caveat that the checklist is complete when the captain announces " Landing , I have the airplane " ( more on this in a moment ) . Nearing the Cat II decision height ( typically 100 ft RA ) , the PNF will announce " Going heads up " , discontinue monitoring the autopilot and look for the approach lighting system and the runway lights . The PF will continue to monitor the autopilot . The airplane will announce " Minimums " at the radar altitude DH and when the airplane reaches this height , the PNF will fly the missed approach . If the captain sees the required lighting to continue the approach , they will announce " Landing , I have the airplane " , and the FO will reply " you have the airplane , landing checklist complete . The Captain must disconnect the autopilot ( by 50 feet , no autoland for us ) , and would fly any aborted landing executed after taking control . Caveats Rules on autopilot usage , disconnect heights and autolanding will vary based on aircraft and company policies . My example assumes an Embraer-145 certified for Cat 2 approaches and no autothrottles or autoland capability . Checklist verbiage and flap configurations mentioned also would vary by aircraft and company . And finally , the specific callouts will vary by company . While it seems like there was a lot of Category II specific things in my example , the two concepts of reduced visibility ILS approaches and monitored approaches are intertwined , and you will almost always be flying a monitored approach because it is required to conduct the low weather approach by company policy .
Background The Sequenced Flashing Lights are part of some <URL> and are a row of strobe lights that flash in sequence to direct the pilots eyes to the runway . They are useful in conditions of bad weather , as they quickly catch the eye and help the pilot locate the runway threshold which might otherwise be hidden ; however , during normal operations they can actually be distracting . These lights appear to run towards the runway and are often called chasers , the rabbit , or the running rabbit . Kill the Wabbit Because these lights are very bright , and often distracting during normal operations in clear weather , it is not uncommon to hear pilots ask the controllers to kill the w/rabbit on their approach . I personally find them overkill , and have heard many other pilots asked them to be turned off as well . <URL> Photo credit <URL>
A QRH is a Quick Reference Handbook and is an approved ( by some overseeing entity ) document specific to an airplane and operator that contains checklists for just about anything the airplane can experience . At my airline we had copies in the airplane and also in our company flight manual ( CFM ) . The entry point into a QRH checklist is one of a few things Memory items EICAS message An abnormal event For option 1 , there are various checklists that must be memorized and performed at a moments notice with no reference to the checklist . Some of these are things like trim runaways , engine fire/severe damage , emergency descent . Once the memory part of the checklist is complete you refer to the printed version of the checklist in the QRH to verify and perform additional steps beyond the part you were required to memorize . For the other options , any time anything abnormal happens or an EICAS message is presented , there are indices by procedure name and also by EICAS message into a specific procedure in the QRH to follow . These procedures may reference other procedures . For example , If I were to experience a dual engine failure , I would pick up my QRH and find the procedure " DUAL ENGINE FAILURE " , this procedure says I should have the master warning light illuminated ( and an aural triple chime ) and I should see the EICAS message ( in red ) " ENG 1-2 OUT " . After verifying this presentation and verifying I am in the right procedure , I would perform :
The fire sensor 's time to give the alarm is customizable depending upon the fire safety alarm being used . Two widely used types of continuous-loop systems are the thermistor type detectors , such as the Kidde and the Fenwal systems , and the pneumatic pressure detector , such as the Lingberg system . ( Lindberg system is also known as Systron-Donner and , more recently , Meggitt Safety Systems . ) . A typical delay of 10 Seconds is quite common . Here is the <URL> for your further reading
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
end question
start question
What ICAO codes are reserved for TIS-B use ?
In this answer I 'll assume you are analysing ADS-B data on 1090 MHz , which is the defacto global standard . I am less familiar with the ADS-B on UAT ( 987 MHz ) which is used in addition to 1090MHz in the USA , but I assume the same logic applies . There are no ICAO addresses assigned to TIS-B targets . If an aircraft has an ICAO-address which is detected by the surveillance sensors ( e.g. Mode S radar , multilateration system ) and the aircraft is not transmitting ADS-B , then a TIS-B target will be created with the ICAO 24 bit address . If an aircraft has no ICAO-address , ( i.e. it has a Mode A/C transponder / ATCRBS ) and is not transmitting ADS-B , then a TIS-B target will be created with a 24 bit address that consists of the Mode A code ( first 12 bits ) and a unique surveillance system track number ( last 12 bits ) . Primary radar targets are allocated a " Mode A code " of all zeros . To determine whether you receive an ADS-B message or a TIS-B message you should start looking at the Downlink Format ( DF , first 5 bits of the message ) if the DF = 17 , then it is an ADS-B message . If the DF = 18 then you look at the control field ( CF , bits 6-8 ) . CF = 0 and CF = 1 are ADS-B messages . CF = 2,3 &amp; 5 are TIS-B messages . CF = 6 are ADS-R messages . CF = 4 are TIS-B / ADS-R system status messages . The TIS-B messages contain an ICAO/Mode A Flag ( IMF ) bit which indicates how to interpret the 24 bit address . The location of this bits varies by message type ( e.g. position , velocity ) and replaces a bit in the ADS-B format that has no meaning in TIS-B .
The correct term is to vacate a runway . The term is used several times in the ICAO Manual of Radiotelephony ( Doc 9432 ) , including the following example ( among many ) : 4.9 After landing Unless absolutely necessary , controllers should not give taxi instructions to pilots until the landing roll is completed . Unless otherwise advised , pilots should remain on tower frequency until the runway is vacated . Pilot : Georgetown Ground Fastair 345 runway vacated ATC : Fastair 345 taxi to stand 27 via taxiway alpha And a relevant note from the same document : Note . -- The runway is vacated when the entire aircraft is beyond the relevant runway-holding position .
There are different kinds of codes assigned to airports . <URL> , which are the three letter codes you mention ; are for travel industry identification purposes ( by the way , these are n't restricted to airports - train stations also have these codes ) . These are used by airlines and travel agents . The other four letter codes are <URL> codes . These are used for navigation , air traffic and flight planning . ICAO codes have a defined standard , each region is assigned a letter and all codes begin with that letter . Canada is assigned a practical , US is : IATA codes however , are arbitrary . For some reason , Canada was given ' Y ' and so all IATA codes in Canada begin with Y . There is YYC ( Calgary ) , YVR ( Vancouver ) , but then you have YQX ( Gander ) and YXS ( Prince George ) and YUL ( Montreal-Trudeu ) .
According to <URL> from their own site : ICAO works with the Convention 's 191 Signatory States and global industry and aviation organizations to develop international Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARPs ) which are then used by States when they develop their legally-binding national civil aviation regulations . So ICAO continues to develop standards and recommendations without the force of regulation .
Let 's see what the savings are : A mid-sized airliner carries maybe 20 % of its mass in fuel . This fuel has an energy density of 43 MJ per kg . Of that chemical energy at most 40 % is converted into useable work . Heck , let 's make this 25 % so we are really conservative . Thus , the energy for the whole trip is $ $ E _ { \ text { trip } } = 0.2 \ cdot 0.25 \ cdot 43,000,000 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { J } } { \ mathrm { kg } } \ cdot \ text { mass } = 2,150,000 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { J } } { \ mathrm { kg } } \ cdot \ text { mass } $ $ Now assume that this airliner saves the energy to accelerate from 0 to 150 knots by using a catapult . This energy is $ $ E _ { \ text { accel } } = \ frac { v _ { \ text { takeoff } } ^ 2 - v_0 ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ text { mass } = 2,977.35 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { m } ^ 2 } { \ mathrm { s } ^ 2 } \ cdot \ text { mass } $ $ Since I picked metric units , conversion is easy : $ 1 \ , \ mathrm { J } = 1 \ , \ mathrm { Ws } = 1 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { kg } \ cdot \ mathrm { m } ^ 2 } { \ mathrm { s } ^ 2 } $ . I use $ \ text { mass } $ for the take-off mass so you do n't think it is the unit meter . Now let 's put that into proportion : $ $ \ frac { E _ { \ text { accel } } } { E _ { \ text { trip } } } = 0.001385 $ $ Using the catapult saves 0.1385 % of the energy needed to fly a typical airliner trip . Granted , it is more for short-range flights , but still insignificant to what is needed to move the aircraft 10 km up into the sky and then for a couple of hundred miles through the air at Mach 0.8 . To make a catapult launch feasible , you need to add some strength to the nose gear and the forward fuselage . The typical landing gear fraction of the take-off mass is about 3 % , and the nose gear is 10 % - 15 % of that , so $ m _ { \ text { nosegear } } = 0.00375 \ cdot \ text { mass } $ . Relative to the nose gear mass , the fuel saving from using a catapult launch is $ \ frac { 0.0003462032 } { 0.00375 } = 0.37 $ or 37 % of the nose gear mass . Thus , the reinforcements need to add less than 37 % to the mass of the nose gear . If we assume an acceleration of 1/2 g = 4.903 m/s ² , the take-off run to accelerate to 150 kts is 607 m. I expect that even this moderate acceleration ( which requires a pulling force of half of the lift at take-off ) would translate into much higher mass increases than those 37 % of the nose gear mass .
Autofeather is an automated feathering feature , common in a lot of turboprops , which automatically feathers the propeller on an engine if it loses power without having to either pull the power or propeller lever to feather the prop . It reduces crew workload in the event of an engine failure and , as a feathered propeller greatly reduces parasite drag on the side of the dead engine , reduces the asymmetrical thrust yaw moment about the vertical axis of the airplane . It is particularly useful during takeoff and landing operations where airspeed may be very close to minimum controllable airspeed on one engine .
To address the question about contact sunglass lenses ... Contact lenses are available with custom dyes , used for examples by actors to create eye colors not inherent to the actor . Similarly , contacts can be obtained with tint which would attenuate the visible light , in a manner similar to sunglasses . You should talk with a contact lens dispenser , as they will have access to the offerings of their suppliers .
ICAO publishes and maintains 19 Annexes to the Chicago Convention . They pertain to all matters in aviation and provide the framework for national legislation in each of the member countries in the form of Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) . In addition to the 19 Annexes , ICAO also produces more detailed guidance in the form of Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) : PANS-ABC , PANS-OPS , PANS-ATM . These are also usually referenced by their Doc number : 2007 , 8168 , 4444 , etc In addition to the PANS , for specific regions of the world ICAO publishes Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPP ) to incorporate regional variants/requirements . Any ICAO contracting state may have local legislation different from SARP/PANS , but is obliged to notify ICAO of these differences . You will find these differences in the country 's AIP section GEN. Getting electronic copies of these documents is a bit more difficult . ICAO <URL> for a very ' aviation ' price . Some CAA 's and institutions will provide <URL> , but they will most likely be out of date and their legality is suspicious at best . Welcome to the world of international law .
The UK aviation medical standards are <URL> , so I assume you could go to any doctor with that information for a checkup .
What are the requirements for radio systems in aircraft ? Generally there are n't any , at least as far as " being required to have radios " . It is perfectly legal to fly around in most of the United States in a Piper Cub with no radios of any kind . Indeed , unless it 's been retrofitted with one a Piper Cub would have no electrical system at all - so you would only be able to fly under " daytime VFR conditions " in airspace not requiring communication with air traffic control ( absent special arrangements ) . If you elect to fly an aircraft equipped with radios ( as most of us do ) there are specific requirements those radios must meet , which are described in <URL> . This is not a comprehensive list , but : For Communication radios these are outlined in <URL> and TSO C-169a . Transponders must meet specific TSO performance criteria per <URL> Navigation Radios ( VOR/ILS/ADF ) must meet specific TSO performance criteria if used under instrument flight rules . The TSO number for these escape me at the moment but I 'm sure you can look them up . GPS systems must meet TSO C145c / TSO C146c requirements ( if used for IFR navigation ) . The Emergency Locator Transmitter ( ELT ) must meet specific TSO criteria . The requirements obviously vary based on the type of radio , and typically reference other industry standards ( for example <URL> for VHF communication radios sends you over to RTCA/DO -186 B for the actual performance criteria ) .
For Australia , you are extremely confined as to what you can do with a PPL to earn money . Skywriting <URL> , will probably mean you lose your license here . What you can do according to <URL> ( Civil Aviation Regulation ) is essentially ; Crop Dusting on a person 's property using their aircraft ( only on their property ) ( You would also require an Agricultural Rating for this ) Transporting the owner of the aircraft Now , here 's where you can work within the rules . According to the definition of the CAR , you can logically fly charter flights as private if you are transporting the owner of the aircraft . What if the aircraft is owned by a company ? Logically , anyone who works for that company is considered an owner , or goods reasonable similar to property of the owner . Now , take everything I 've said here , take with a grain of salt as I am not a CASA lawyer ( Thank god ) , and as a disclaimer , nothing that I have said here can be taken as an exact interpretation of the law or anything reasonably similar . But , have a read of that CAR , and you will possibly find avenues to follow , or just bite the bullet , go to a VET Fee Help approved school and do your CPL ?
The magnetron is a high-powered vacuum tube , that works as self-excited microwave oscillator . They are used mainly in radar transmitters as either pulsed or cw oscillators at frequencies . In ( civil ) aircraft , they are mostly used in weather radars . They have relatively simple construction but have been replaced in almost all aircraft due to their disadvantages : They can usually work only on a constructively fixed frequency . They have poor reliability . They have high power consumption and have noise issues . They have finite life , considerably lesser than solid state devices . Most of the aircraft operating today use solid state devices in their Radars . It may be still used in some older aircraft and helicopters , but they are becoming increasingly rare . Weather radars are regularly used by pilots to detect the weather conditions in front of them . According to Airbus Flight Operations Briefing Notes : Optimum Use of the Weather Radar The weather radar only detects : Rainfall Wet hail and wet turbulence Ice crystals , dry hail and dry snow . However , these three elements give small reflections compared to water droplets . It does not detect clouds , fog or clear air turbulence . Most of the aircraft in the list were designed 25 + years ago and have ( mostly ) switched over to solid state devices . Aircrafts are rarely used after 30 years as maintenance becomes expensive . However magnetrons are still used in some aircraft due to their simple construction and high power output . For example , the WU-880 Radar Receiver Transmitter Antenna in Honeywell Primus 880 radar used in Falcon 2000EX uses magnetron . Note : Almost all commercial aircraft use convection ovens to heat food ( they wo n't have aluminum foils if they microwave ovens were being used ) ; however , microwave ovens are available for aircraft and are used in some executive aircraft .
According to <URL> , Air Traffic Organisation Policy , section 4-4-2 there are several requirements from both the FAA and FCC . The FAA requirements are ( paraphrased from the JO ) : Comply with FCC regulations ( remember that the FCC is responsible for radio communication technical regulations , not the FAA ) Get FAA approval " to avoid possible duplication or conflict with air − ground call signs assigned on a national basis to other aircraft operators " The FCC requirements are in <URL> ( not 87.115 as the JO says ) : ( a ) Aircraft station . Identify by one of the following means : ( 1 ) Aircraft radio station call sign . ( 2 ) The type of aircraft followed by the characters of the registration marking ( " N " number ) of the aircraft , omitting the prefix letter " N. " When communication is initiated by a ground station , an aircraft station may use the type of aircraft followed by the last three characters of the registration marking . Notwithstanding any other provision of this section , an aircraft being moved by maintenance personnel from one location in an airport to another location in that airport may be identified by a station identification consisting of the name of the company owning or operating the aircraft , followed by the word " Maintenance " and additional alphanumeric characters of the licensee 's choosing . ( 3 ) The FAA assigned radiotelephony designator of the aircraft operating organization followed by the flight identification number . ( 4 ) An aircraft identification approved by the FAA for use by aircraft stations participating in an organized flying activity of short duration . In other words , your call sign must be approved in advance by the FAA , otherwise you ca n't legally use it per FCC regulations . In reality , if you call up ATC as Little Piggy 27 you 'll either get a laugh and a " no , seriously ? " or - in the worst case - you 'll just annoy them . There are also military call signs in use but I know nothing about them . I do remember being in the pattern while an Air National Guard aircraft out of Memphis , TN was doing touch and goes using the call sign Elvis 1 . But I have no idea how that call sign was set up between the ANG and FAA .
The following includes the changes you allude to ( which were proposed in <URL> on June 30 , 2011 ) . Commercial Flights Per ICAO Annex 6 , Part I , section 4.3.6 " Fuel Requirements , " airplanes should calculate their required fuel quantity as follows ( summary ; see below for actual ICAO text ) : Taxi fuel Trip fuel ( to reach intended destination ) Contingency fuel ( higher of 5 % of " trip fuel " or 5 minutes of holding flight ) Destination alternate fuel ( to fly a missed and reach an alternate ) Final reserve fuel ( 45 minutes of holding flight for reciprocating engines , 30 minutes for jets ) Additional fuel ( if needed to guarantee ability to reach an alternate with an engine failure or at lower altitude due to a pressurization loss ) Discretionary fuel ( if the pilot in command wants it ) General Aviation For general aviation , ICAO Annex 6 Part II , section 2.2.3.6 " Fuel and oil supply " requires : For IFR , enough fuel to reach destination , then alternate ( if required ) , plus 45 minutes For day VFR , enough fuel to reach destination plus 30 minutes For night VFR , enough fuel to reach destination plus 45 minutes ICAO Annex 6 Part I From the <URL> : 4.3.6.3 The pre-flight calculation of usable fuel required shall include : a ) taxi fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel expected to be consumed before take-off ; b ) trip fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel required to enable the aeroplane to fly from take-off , or the point of in-flight re-planning , until landing at the destination aerodrome taking into account the operating conditions of 4.3.6.2 b ) ; c ) contingency fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel required to compensate for unforeseen factors . It shall be five per cent of the planned trip fuel or of the fuel required from the point of in-flight re-planning based on the consumption rate used to plan the trip fuel but , in any case , shall not be lower than the amount required to fly for five minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 500 ft ) above the destination aerodrome in standard conditions ; Note . -- Unforeseen factors are those which could have an influence on the fuel consumption to the destination aerodrome , such as deviations of an individual aeroplane from the expected fuel consumption data , deviations from forecast meteorological conditions , extended taxi times before take-off , and deviations from planned routings and/or cruising levels . d ) destination alternate fuel , which shall be : where a destination alternate aerodrome is required , the amount of fuel required to enable the aeroplane to : i ) perform a missed approach at the destination aerodrome ; ii ) climb to the expected cruising altitude ; iii ) fly the expected routing ; iv ) descend to the point where the expected approach is initiated ; and v ) conduct the approach and landing at the destination alternate aerodrome ; or where two destination alternate aerodromes are required , the amount of fuel , as calculated in 4.3.6.3 d ) 1 ) , required to enable the aeroplane to proceed to the destination alternate aerodrome which requires the greater amount of alternate fuel ; or where a flight is operated without a destination alternate aerodrome , the amount of fuel required to enable the aeroplane to fly for 15 minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 500 ft ) above destination aerodrome elevation in standard conditions ; or where the aerodrome of intended landing is an isolated aerodrome : i ) for a reciprocating engine aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for 45 minutes plus 15 per cent of the flight time planned to be spent at cruising level , including final reserve fuel , or two hours , whichever is less ; or ii ) for a turbine-engined aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for two hours at normal cruise consumption above the destination aerodrome , including final reserve fuel ; e ) final reserve fuel , which shall be the amount of fuel calculated using the estimated mass on arrival at the destination alternate aerodrome , or the destination aerodrome when no destination alternate aerodrome is required : for a reciprocating engine aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for 45 minutes , under speed and altitude conditions specified by the State of the Operator ; or for a turbine-engined aeroplane , the amount of fuel required to fly for 30 minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 500 ft ) above aerodrome elevation in standard conditions ; f ) additional fuel , which shall be the supplementary amount of fuel required if the minimum fuel calculated in accordance with 4.3.6.3 b ) , c ) , d ) and e ) is not sufficient to : allow the aeroplane to descend as necessary and proceed to an alternate aerodrome in the event of engine failure or loss of pressurization , whichever requires the greater amount of fuel based on the assumption that such a failure occurs at the most critical point along the route ; i ) fly for 15 minutes at holding speed at 450 m ( 1 50
For a short introduction on what ADS-B is and why it is called dependent see <URL> . ADS-B is a surveillance technology whereby the aircraft broadcasts information about its identity , position , altitude and velocity of the aircraft to any interesting party . The position and velocity information is derived from GNSS ( GPS ) . TCAS ADS-B is not intended to replace TCAS , although in the future it will augment TCAS . The TCAS algorithm currently only uses distance and altitude to calculate whether there is a conflict and to determine the best conflict resolution strategy . With the more accurate ADS-B position available to the system as well , the number of TCAS interrogation can be reduced ( the surveillance radio frequencies are getting congested in some areas ) and the performance of TCAS can be improved . A new standard for this hybrid approach was <URL> <URL> . It may also be possible to have a passive TCAS-like system that does not require active interrogation but is purely depending on ADS-B . Currently a technical standard for a new <URL> ( ACAS , the generic name for TCAS ) is being developed in a joint RTCA / EUROCAE committee ( RTCA SC-147 / EUROCAE WG-75 ) , which will take advantage of more data offered by ADS-B . This new standard will eventually replace TCAS II . A ' TCAS light ' for small aviation has also been developed based on ADS-B . It is called Traffic Situation Awareness with Alerts ( TSAA ) , a standard that was <URL> <URL> . Within the next couple of years we will see manufacturers start offering products based on this standard . ATC The purpose of ADS-B is neither to replace ground based ATC . But it will change the way ATC is done . ADS-B IN will improve the situation awareness of pilots ; they will have a display of accurate positions of other aircraft . New procedures will allow pilots to maintain visual separation to other aircraft in marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) , where they currently would often lose sight of other traffic . A more advanced usage of ADS-B will be flight deck based interval management ( FIM ) where ATC will be able to instruct aircraft to ' follow that plane XX seconds behind for landing on runway YY ' . A first technical standard for FIM is being worked on , it is intended to be published before the end of this year . ADS-B is neither a replacement for all radars , although it will allow the number of radars to be reduced . For remote areas that currently do not have radar coverage because of the associated high costs , ADS-B will be a cost effective alternative . Over the oceans , satellite <URL> will be able to provide surveillance , changing the way ATC is performed over the high seas . GNSS Given the examples above , it is easy to understand the requirements on the reliability of ADS-B are substantial . Not only must the system be able to deliver accurate position data , it must be able to deliver that data with high integrity . That means , the probability that the system transmits inaccurate position data , even when there is a failure in the system , must be extremely small . To achieve this , a positioning systems must be able to do internal cross checks to detect failures and not depend on possible erroneous inputs from humans . GPS can meet the position source requirements using Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring ( RAIM ) . The ADS-B technical specifications have all been written in such a way that they do not explicitly require GNSS to be the position source , but at the moment it is the only system that meets the requirement effectively . Most certification documents are written with the assumption that a GNSS will be used to provide position data . Theoretically one could put another system forward , but the costs of certifying that would be very high .
To start you off there 's these two : <URL> - Certification of Airports and <URL> - Notice of Construction , Alteration , Activation and Deactivation of Airports . Part 139.311 covers all the lighting related requirements . Part 157 is there just so you can inform the FAA about the changes you 're going to make in the airport . for specifics about LED lights , I would suggest looking for Advisory Circulars with LED lighting for airports in particular .
In this answer I 'll assume you are analysing ADS-B data on 1090 MHz , which is the defacto global standard . I am less familiar with the ADS-B on UAT ( 987 MHz ) which is used in addition to 1090MHz in the USA , but I assume the same logic applies . There are no ICAO addresses assigned to TIS-B targets . If an aircraft has an ICAO-address which is detected by the surveillance sensors ( e.g. Mode S radar , multilateration system ) and the aircraft is not transmitting ADS-B , then a TIS-B target will be created with the ICAO 24 bit address . If an aircraft has no ICAO-address , ( i.e. it has a Mode A/C transponder / ATCRBS ) and is not transmitting ADS-B , then a TIS-B target will be created with a 24 bit address that consists of the Mode A code ( first 12 bits ) and a unique surveillance system track number ( last 12 bits ) . Primary radar targets are allocated a " Mode A code " of all zeros . To determine whether you receive an ADS-B message or a TIS-B message you should start looking at the Downlink Format ( DF , first 5 bits of the message ) if the DF = 17 , then it is an ADS-B message . If the DF = 18 then you look at the control field ( CF , bits 6-8 ) . CF = 0 and CF = 1 are ADS-B messages . CF = 2,3 &amp; 5 are TIS-B messages . CF = 6 are ADS-R messages . CF = 4 are TIS-B / ADS-R system status messages . The TIS-B messages contain an ICAO/Mode A Flag ( IMF ) bit which indicates how to interpret the 24 bit address . The location of this bits varies by message type ( e.g. position , velocity ) and replaces a bit in the ADS-B format that has no meaning in TIS-B .
TIS-B is part of the ADS-B system that will be required in class B and C airspace come 2020 . The processing of traffic relevant to your aircraft is done on the ground to keep the airwaves " clean " as it would require transmission of much more data to show all aircraft and then have your local device filter it . In order for you to take advantage of your own " hockey puck " , you first need to have installed in your aircraft the appropriate avionics , namely a GPS with WAAS and an ADS-B out or Mode S transponder . Your transponder will broadcast your location and altitude , then the ground station will process which traffic is relevant to you without the 3D boundaries of the " hockey puck " surrounding your aircraft , then it will broadcast that response out to the air . The key is that not only your aircraft can pick up the response - any aircraft with an operable ADS-B In system can read it and thus display traffic/give traffic alerts even if you do n't have an ADS-B out . The key though is that without an ADS-B out the traffic information is not customized for you so critical information/traffic may be missing ( what is transmitted is might not be in YOUR hockey puck ) . Note : It is also possible for you to pick up signals directly from other ADS-B out equipped aircraft in your proximity without an ADS-B ground station to relay that information and they will display directly on your ADS-B in equipped system .
Bugs simply make instruments easier to read with a very quick glance . If I need to steer exactly 162 degrees , which is easier ? To read where the needle is pointing or just see if the needle is pointing to the bug which I manually set to 162 degrees ? The bugs are set by rotating knobs on the gauges . Here , the heading bug knob is in the lower right corner . <URL> The way I often use it is to turn onto the next heading required according to my plan , then set the bug to that heading so that I can simply glance at the needle ( still pointing to the bug , good ) to keep me on course . Other uses : If ATC gives you a " next heading " , you will read back the instruction , then you can set the bug to that next heading so that a ) , you do n't forget it and need to call back and b ) can simply turn onto the bug when it 's time to turn . Set it to the departure runway heading on take off . To " fly runway heading " , just keep the bug at the top of the gauge . On arrival , set it to the landing runway heading . As a " gross error " check . You would not believe how many inexperienced pilots set off in entirely the wrong direction . As well as setting the heading bug to " first leg of the plan " , you check this along with " and the road should be on my left with the river on my right " . On some simple autopilot systems , the autopilot follows the altitude and heading bugs rather than having controls for these settings on the autopilot itself .
Besides the main points you mentioned , I can think of a couple things , the first is sort of related to your point # 1 . Airplanes are designed to be easy to service . Cars are less so . Cars only have a few very expensive parts , mainly the drivetrain ( engine and transmission ) . If either of those needs to be replaced in an older car , it can easily cost more than the car is worth . Airplanes are much more complex , and have a larger number of expensive components . The engines of most airliners are designed to be removed relatively quickly . Although the engines tend to be the most expensive part , replacing an engine is nowhere near the total cost of the airplane , and there is generally a good pool of engines out there for parts and replacement ( just look at how many JT8D engines are still in service ) . In GA aircraft , it is easier for a repair to cost more than the airplane is worth . However , the more comprehensive maintenance required on aircraft means that this kind of repair is less likely to be needed . Also , while its usually easy to go out and replace a broken car with a comparable new or used one , the aircraft market is n't as large . New aircraft tend to be much more expensive , and the used market is more limited . Another reason is that airplanes can have more unique qualities than cars . For example , there are original 737s flying in Canada because they are able to operate from gravel runways . There are just more combinations of sizes and capabilities in airplanes than with cars . Many times , it is only economical to replace those aircraft ( both for the builder and the buyer ) in very long cycles .
end question
start question
Why ca n't most jets safely use reverse thrust while airborne ?
The problems are two-fold : The airspeed is much higher in flight than when landing , so the thrust reverser doors would have to be much stronger , and therefore heavier to withstand the additional forces , along with the relative wind making them harder to close . What happens when it gets stuck in the deployed position ? Now you have to shut down a perfectly good engine and have additional drag on the airplane while in flight . ( Bonus ) It is n't really needed on most airplanes with spoilers , flaps , etc. that accomplish the same thing .
The primary ( and most effective ) method to slow the jet down is aerobraking . In the T-38 at ~ 130 knots full aft stick is applied at a rate that prevents the jet from becoming airborne again . The stick will be back towards the seat pan . Fly the nosewheel down to the runway at ~ 100 knots and apply wheel brakes . In the F-16 the max aerobraking occurs at 13 AOA with speed brakes extended . You do not want to exceed 15 degrees of pitch angle to prevent scraping the burner can and speed brakes . The speed brakes will not fully extend while the nosewheel is not on the runway ( however , it can be overridden but increases the possibility that the speed brakes will scrape ) . In either case you do not want to let the nosewheel fall . You also do NOT apply wheel braking until the nosewheel is down .
Short answer : Turbofans need supersonic speed at the fan blade tips to create their high thrust . Turbofans can tolerate supersonic speeds because the intake creates constant flow conditions irrespective of flight speed . Efficiency for propellers and fan blades is highest at subsonic flow conditions . Propellers can turn at supersonic speeds , but since flow conditions are less controlled , the penalty for doing so is much higher than the penalty for a fan . Explanation It is a bad thing to have supersonic fan blade tips , just like supersonic propeller tips are best avoided . But in turbofans it is a price worth paying , because the faster tip velocity means higher dynamic pressure , and the pressure difference between both sides of the fan blade grows with the square of their velocity . This makes the high thrust levels of modern turbofans possible . <URL> Propeller efficiency over speed ( picture <URL> ) . The plot for fan blades would look not much different . The very thin , uncambered airfoil of a supersonic propeller and the added wave drag lower the maximum efficiency , but hold efficiency up into supersonic air speeds . Note that the propeller on the <URL> did move at supersonic speed . There is nothing inherent in propellers which prevents their tips from moving faster than the speed of sound . On the other hand , the big diameter of a prop requires proportionally more torque to keep the prop rotating against the drag from the supersonic tips . Thus , a fan engine requires less torque per blade to reach supersonic tip speeds on the fan blades . Also , the <URL> to make the noise from supersonic tips manageable . The XF-84H 's noise made people literally sick . But there is more to it : @FreeMan encouraged me with his comment to dive a little deeper . A supersonic propeller will work well when the direction of flow at every station along the propeller blade is about equal to the local airfoil chord . Since the blade is uncambered , this means that the change in local flow direction at the leading edge can be minimized to the amount which is required to create the desired thrust . But to be able to fulfill this condition you need to match your propeller speed to the flight speed and twist distribution . Also , the angle of attack must be compensated for by sviveling this propeller axis into the direction of flight . It will have no <URL> , but can run at only one speed for a given flight speed . Contrast this with a turbofan : The intake makes sure that the flow speed and direction at the face of the fan is the same no matter what the flight speed is . This is done by the pressure field in and around the intake which <URL> in from the sides at low speed . In the fan you can indeed match the local angle of incidence to the airspeed so the fan will work well over its design range . Generally , a fully subsonic fan would be more efficient . But then the diameter would need to be as large as that of big turboprop engines , and the shroud would become impossibly heavy and produce too much drag . The high dynamic pressure on the fan blades is needed to produce the thrust with the relatively small diameter of a turbofan .
In general , the HF radios in aviation work in simplex mode . According to the Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation - Aeronautical Telecommunications Volume V Aeronautical Radio Frequency Spectrum Utilization Chapter 3 , 3.1.1 In the aeronautical mobile service , single channel simplex shall be used in radiotelephone communications utilizing radio frequencies below 30 MHz in the bands allocated exclusively to the aeronautical mobile ( R ) service . Though some aviation radios are capable of semi-duplex operation , virtually all aviation services operate on simplex . I have no idea why the operator was stepping on the aircraft 's transmission though .
The purpose of trimming is to free the pilot from having to exert a constant pressure on the controls . This is often used to maintain straight and level flight , however trimming can also be used at any phase of flight - for example to maintain a constant rate of climb or descent . The most basic form , as found on most light aircraft is elevator trim . Usually operated by a wheel , it moves the elevator up or down by a small amount in the same sense as the yoke ( back to go up , forward to go down ) . This can be used to settle the aircraft into straight flight . Another form of trim is rudder trim . Often found in larger light aircraft and twin-engined aircraft it can be used to adjust for a crosswind to keep the aircraft flying straight . On multi-engine aircraft it can also be used to trim out the differential thrust caused by one engine failing .
<URL> ( Highlight mine . ) Short answer : airport briefing . If no restrictions , then company SOP . Thrust reduction is usually set to activate once the plane clears the noise abatement and/or MSA ( <URL> ) . <URL> takes care of acceleration when activated as long as the <URL> is programmed . It also warns the crew if constraints will not be met . <URL> Boeing 737NG VNAV . ( Highlight mine . ) From <URL> : Thrust Reduction and Acceleration Procedures On take-off , in order to position the aircraft to a safe height away from terrain and obstacles ( i.e. a flight path of maximum height and minimum ground distance desired ) , the engine thrust is set to a high ' take-off power ' setting ( although this is not necessarily full power ) and the aircraft attitude is pitched up to maintain a specific speed ( usually in the region of V2 + 15kts ) . Once the ' safe height ' is reached the engine thrust can therefore be reduced to a more appropriate ( i.e. efficient ) setting and the aircraft flight path can be changed to a more appropriate ( i.e. efficient ) flight path . In order to achieve that described above and also to provide minimum noise disturbance to the area surrounding the airport , regulatory procedures require aircraft to fly one of the two profiles given below during every departure . The aerodrome briefing pages will state which one of the two profiles is to be flown at each particular airport : At 1,500 ft aal reduce thrust to climb power and accelerate the aircraft towards 250 knots , retracting flaps and slats . At 1,500 ft aal reduce thrust to climb power maintaining V2 + 15kts . At 3,000 ft accelerate the aircraft . Operator 's SOPs must therefore enable the above procedures to be flown . Typical Boeing 737 climb profile : <URL> Acceleration here would happen at ( 2 ) when VNAV is engaged . Default acceleration height depends on the airline , manual entry is possible from 400 to 9999 feet . The default thrust reduction height is 1500 feet ( lowest manual entry is 800 ) .
For conventional VORs , Positive sensing occurs when the headng currently being flown is on the top half of the VOR . Reverse sensing occurs when the current heading is on the bottom half of the VOR . <URL> Used wth permission from <URL> Taking this theory to the HSI where the currently flown heading is always on the top half and you can never have reverse sensing . It is also proper technique to set in the front course when flying a LOC/BC approach . This will negate the effects of reverse sensing for HSIs . To get all my students into the habit of setting in the front course for HSIs I teach to always set in the front course even when flying on conventional instruments . I do n't believe in positive and reverse sensing anymore . A discussion for another day . <URL>
In Europe , some airways are only available in certain flight level ranges , so a commercial airliner and a GA turbo-prop travelling from the same departure airport to the same destination airport could be travelling on different routes due to airway restrictions in place and the inability of one aircraft to climb to the same level as the other . Below the routing for PC12 operating IFR at FL150 and an A320 operating at FL250 . The above flightplan from EDDL to EDDM validates for FL240 , but anything above FL245 will not pass , it will error out with : To fly the same flight in higher levels , you would need another routing : This routing works fine for anything above FL245 , below it would again error out with :
If you feel that you would need carb heat sitting on the ground , I 'd recommend taxing back and waiting for conditions to improve . If you are set on going , usually doing a run-up at the runway before take-off will tell you if you have carb ice or not . The other answer gave good reasons , sucking in some FOD ( foreign object debris ) , but there are some other things you would want to consider ... Forgetting to push the carb heat back in before takeoff - Especially important when taking off from short fields , you want all the power your engine has to offer , as carb heat robs your engine of some power . If you have carb ice , applying carb heat will cause your engine to make even less power ( hot air is less dense than cold air ) . 3/4 of the way down a 1200 foot runway is a bad time to realize the carb heat is still on , because it probably is n't on your takeoff checklist . Carb heat is not very effective on a cold engine - This is a real problem when you are at idle or especially gliding , the airflow over the engine components and the exhaust just does n't create enough heat to melt the ice in the carb ( at least not very quickly ) . This is why you may be instructed to " clear " the engine periodically during low power operations . This involves adding power and then carb heat to help melt any ice . That all being said , its not so much a rule as a recommendation . You 'll probably find that during your flight training you 'll end up leaving the carb heat on while on the ground for short periods . This happens a lot during landing operations when you are instructed to have carb heat on ( my instructor taught me mid-field downwind , " Seat Belts , Gear , Fuel Selector , Carb Heat , Mixture , Prop , Power " ) . You 'll end up leaving it on until you 've cleared the runway ( or set up for a touch-and-go ) and are running your " after landing " checklists .
Formation lights are used so that aircraft can fly close formation at night . They are typically luminescent strips positioned so that an aircraft can be in the desired position ( i.e. fingertip formation ) and have references fore-aft , up-down , and near-far similar to references as used for daytime formation flying . Something along the lines of , " keep the position light just below the formation light ( strip ) under the cockpit and the aft fuselage light ( strip ) just touching the wing hardpoint , and you 're in the right position . If the position light goes farther below the strip , you 're getting high ; if the hardpoint is sliding back into the aft light you 're getting close , etc. " Obviously these references are very specific to each individual aircraft . You can see the formation lights in this picture of an F-14 ; the dots are actual position lights , while the strips are the formation lights . <URL> <URL> As to why only military aircraft have them ... how often have you seen or heard of civil aircraft flying formation at night ? Yeah , me neither . There are very , very few non-military reasons for formation flight , and essentially none that require it to be done at night .
The reason is really the size ! Air molecules have the same size if they flow around a small paper airplane or a big real airplane , but since their relative size is so much smaller when they flow around the real airplane , friction effects are much smaller for the big airplane . When comparing airplanes of different sizes , a dimensionless <URL> is most helpful . It is basically the ratio of inertial to viscous forces in the airflow , and the formula is $ $ Re = \ frac { l \ cdot v } { \ nu } $ $ Nomenclature : $ Re \ :\ :\ : $ Reynolds number $ l \ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ characteristic length , for example wing chord $ v \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ airspeed $ \ nu \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ kinematic viscosity of air Flows with the same Reynolds number behave identically , but your scaled-down aircraft flies at a very different Reynolds number than the original ( both speed and characteristic length are a lot lower ) , so the airflow around it will be very different . For it , the air looks more like a syrup when that around the original is like flowing water ! Therefore , lift creation needs different means at this scale ( wings with more chord , for example ) , and the paper airplane is better suited to cope with this particular flow condition . The next difference is wing loading : The paper airplane is very light ; its mass per area is low . Therefore , it can fly at a slower speed than your scaled-down real airplane , and it will be easier for you to launch the paper airplane properly into the air . The scaled-down airplane needs to be thrown harder , but still straight , and this might be another reason for it falling down quickly .
On typical Boeing throttles , <URL> but similar on all Boeings , the reverse thrust levers must be lifted to engage reverse . In order to do this , the thrust levers must be in the idle gate and can not be advanced until the reverse thrust levers as stowed . The reverse levers engage locks in the thrust levers . <URL> , at 2:50 , you can see the thrust levers being retarded to idle , then the reverse thrust levers being pulled up . At 3:22 they are stowed . <URL> , you can see that the Airbus system is very similar .
No . The fuel system would risk to clog up with gelled diesel fuel in the low temperatures at cruise altitude . If you had omitted " safely " in your question , the answer might be different . Before I repeat what others have written before , I refer you to <URL> . The essential part is : Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later .
To avoid shock waves on the compressor blades which would make the engine unusable both because of the very large pressure fluctuations that would cause fatigue and failure of blades , and because of the high level of drag that is developed in supersonic flows that would have the effect of slowing the blades down as they rotated . In fact the engine just would n't run with a supersonic flow going into it . Also the flow needs to be slowed down as much as possible to allow enough time in the combustion chamber for the fuel to burn completely . So ... a cone or ramp shape at the inlet is used to create a little shockwave in front of the engine slowing down the oncoming air to subsonic speeds and allowing the jet engine to operate efficiently . A ramjet is able to use the compressed air because it is designed to do so . An excellent case study is the SR-71 Blackbird , which had engine cones that moved forward and backward based on speed/altitude , to transition from a turbine to a ramjet mission profile . ( Fun fact : That plane is so darned fast that the limit to it 's speed comes not from engine power , but from MELTING THE PLANE because it is going so fast . ) The SR-71 had " Bypass doors " to close of the main turbine of the engine when operating on a ramjet profile . A ramjet , sometimes referred to as a flying stovepipe or an athodyd , is a form of airbreathing jet engine that uses the engine 's forward motion to compress incoming air without a rotary compressor . Ramjets can not produce thrust at zero airspeed ; they can not move an aircraft from a standstill . A ramjet powered vehicle , therefore , requires an assisted take off like a JATO to accelerate it to a speed where it begins to produce thrust . Ramjets work most efficiently at supersonic speeds around Mach 3 . This type of engine can operate up to speeds of Mach 6 . A scramjet is a variant of a ramjet airbreathing jet engine in which combustion takes place in supersonic airflow . As in ramjets , a scramjet relies on high vehicle speed to forcefully compress the incoming air before combustion , but a ramjet decelerates the air to subsonic velocities before combustion , while airflow in a scramjet is supersonic throughout the entire engine . This allows the scramjet to operate efficiently at extremely high speeds : theoretical projections place the top speed of a scramjet between Mach 12 and Mach 24 .
I do n't agree with the strict enforcement of this rule by the DGCA ( but I 'm not an airline pilot so I think my opinion does n't really count on this matter ) . But there is logic behind the ban - many safety-critical actions are completed before the plane has left the gate . Such actions include calculating takeoff speeds , briefing the departure procedures , and completing various checklists . Having people in the cockpit could prove to be a big distraction when trying to complete these tasks , particularly when the time is limited anyway such as on a short turnaround . Making a mistake before leaving the gate can definitely end in disaster . Take <URL> in 2009 . The crew entered an incorrect takeoff weight into the system . As a result there was n't enough thrust to rotate and the A340 barely cleared the airport fence .
There is no set legal limit ( ultimately it is up to the PIC to decide ) but condition reports are available to pilots at many airports to assist in assessing takeoff and landing performance . The FAA has recently created a standardized way of reporting runway conditions through their TALPA ( takeoff and landing performance assessment ) initiative . TALPA is an improved way of assessing runway conditions , based on contaminant type and depth , which provides an aircraft operator effective means to anticipate airplane braking performance . The RCAM ( shown below ) is the tool airport operators use to report a runway surface assessment when contaminants such as water , ice , snow , slush , and others are present on runways , taxiways , and aprons . To find an updated RCAM look in Chapter 5 of Advisory Circular 150/5200 -30 , Airport Field Condition Assessments and Winter Operation Safety . The RwyCC is the runway condition code -- as you can see a code of 0 yields minimal to non-existant braking and/or directional control . <URL>
The idea that missiles will be all a fighter aircraft needs was prevalent in the late Fifties . The <URL> Phantom II carried initially only missiles , but at the start of the Vietnam war this turned out to be inadequate . The long-range missiles back then were rather unreliable , and in a real conflict things turn out always different than anticipated . As <URL> said , the plan is the first casualty of war . F-4s frequently found themselves in close-combat situations for which they were inadequately prepared . Even today , a gun gives the pilot a lot more options , and if the situation is unclear , close-up visual inspection before shooting is still vital to avoid <URL> . From the F-4C on , F-4s were equipped with a gun .
I 'm sure it 's possible to use servo motors to get precise control of the ailerons , elevators or the rudder . No , it is n't . Primary flight control actuators require both rather high forces and quick response time . Electric motors can provide either , but both at the same time is a problem . Hydraulics is still better for that combination . Note that other actuators that do n't require the fast response time ( like flaps , gear or horizontal stabilizer foreplane ( elevator trim ) ) are electric in some aircraft .
C-5 Galaxy was designed to military requirements that for cargo aircraft include : operating from unpaved runways ( I am not sure in case of C-5 , but probably yes ) operating from airfields without much support operating from short runways paradrop capability These basically imply a high-wing design so that engines are high ( to minimize risk of foreign object damage ) and the deck is lower for easier loading , front and rear cargo door with loading ramps so loading is possible without any ground infrastructure and some excess thrust for sufficient performance on short fields . However that design is less efficient . It has higher operating cost . The air force is willing to pay it , because it needs the capabilities it requested . But commercial operations do n't need those things , because it has enough well equipped airports to operate from . So the higher cost of operating an L-500 ( as civil version of C-5 would be called ) makes it uninteresting . B-747 only shares one design feature with C-5 , the raised cockpit that allows full-height cargo door in the nose , but otherwise it is optimized to minimize operating cost , making it great cargo plane for operations between airports . On a side note , there is some commercial demand for transporting heavy or large cargo to less equipped airports . These are currently covered by ex-soviet-military An-124 aircraft that look very similar to Galaxy , are a bit larger , are certainly able to land on unpaved runways and were simply available when Soviet Union collapsed .
While there are many exceptions to east-west runways , generally speaking <URL> ( which blow from a single direction ) blow east-west rather than north-south . It happens because of Earth 's rotation generates <URL> . <URL> There are <URL> besides prevailing winds . <URL> occur near the equator and flow from either the north or south towards the equator . They curve towards the west due to the spin of the Earth . <URL> blow close to the north and south poles . They blow away from the poles and curve east to west . Hence , most of the runways are Eastish-Westish ( not exactly East-West ) .
end question
