start question
To make Gluten free pancakes , can I just substitute regular flour with Gluten free flour ?
It depends on what you mean by gluten-free flour . If you are buying a gluten-free flour mix that it labeled for all-purpose use then you should be able to substitute that and get a reasonably good result . Substituting straight rice or almond flour in a standard recipe will not work well , because the mixes have a blend of ingredients designed to make it perform similar to flour . It may take some recipe/flour experimentation to get it as close to what you are used to , but will definetly make something edible . There are also various almond-flour based pancake recipes which work well .
There are cultured soy and coconut milk products ( generally sold with yogurt ) which can be used as a sour cream substitute ; it 's frequently advisable to add a little extra vinegar or lemon juice as these products do n't generally provide as much kick as real sour cream .
If there 's leavening in the cake ( baking soda or baking powder ) that gets activated once incorporated with the rest of the ingredients , and you substantially overmix , you may lose some of its power as you help the gas escape from your batter . Unless you 're whipping it vigorously , you 're not going to be bringing enough air into the batter to make up for it . This is pretty much like letting the batter sit out on the counter for a while before baking , except faster .
Authentic flour tortillas use lard . For an authentic taste , use that , or consider using shortening or butter since they are solid at room temperature like lard . You also might want to consider increasing the fat in your recipe . Fat will coat the proteins of your flour and keep the gluten network from forming so easily . I was also taught when making tortillas to let the dough rest for an hour after kneading and before rolling/pressing . This helps everything relax . After cooking each tortilla , put them in a pile with a clean towel over them . The tortillas will sweat liquid , helping them to soften up . You can also put them all in a heat-safe bag ( paper or microwave safe plastic ) for sweating . When storing your tortillas , make sure to store them in a bag and not in the open air . If your tortillas are too small , you should be able to roll out a larger piece of dough . Part of the texture issues might actually be from you rolling them too thin . If you are used to working with dough your ideas of thin might be different from the overstated ones found in recipes . Try rolling to various thicknesses .
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
Yes , and it is very easy . I do it all the time . You only need a very simple calculation . You do n't even have to be precise . If you do want precision , you will have to find out 1 ) how much of your flour protein is gluten , 2 ) how much of your " vital wheat gluten " is gluten , and 3 ) how much gluten content you need for your recipe . Then use a simple rule-of-three calculation to get the amount needed to add . I usually do n't bother , because 1 ) and 2 ) is information which is very hard to find , and due to the large difference in gluten weight and complete weight , imprecision from not using true proportions is minimal . What I do is : Look up the protein content of your flour ( usually printed on the package ) , for example 9.6 grams per 100 grams Look up the gluten content needed for your bread recipe . If it is not specified , 12.5 % is usual for bread flour . Add the difference in vital wheat gluten . In the example above , add 2.9 g of vital wheat gluten per 100 g of flour . This does n't produce exactly 12.5 % gluten content , but I think that it is within the tolerance of most recipes ; indeed , not all commercial flours are exactly 12.5 % , they vary with brand and season . I add the powder to the flour and mix it well before making the bread . If I am using a preferment , I add all the gluten to the preferment and make the non-fermenting part with AP flour only , so my gluten can benefit from longer autolysis . I have no direct comparison with " true " bread flour , as I have never used it . But my breads requiring bread flour turn out good for my standards . There is no problem with bad distribution , the dough turns out very smooth and evenly elastic . There is a pronounced difference to using AP flour only .
You can absolutely do this . I do it in <URL> , for example . A good trick to boost the flavor even farther is to add non-fat milk powder to the butter as it browns , to supply even more protein for the Maillard reactions .
The main things that can go bad with flour , assuming it is properly stored are : Rancidity Insect infestation If you do n't see any insects , and it still smells good , you should feel free to use it . If it smells off or nasty -- trust me , your nose will tell you -- then you will want to discard it . The actual date on the bag is only a guideline .
Yes . The important fat is the one the starch first goes into . The higher temperature reached by fats ( as compared to water or milk ) helps cook the flour , creating flavors . The liquid added later dilutes the mixture into a sauce . The liquid 's fats are not as crucial for the sauce 's thickness as the liquid 's proteins . I think of the cooked butter-flour mixture as a thickner that can be added to milk , broths , and even a saucy dish . The roux thickens way better than just a slurry of flour and a cold liquid . Jack Lang has written <URL> and the science is summarized in chapter 4 of <URL>
It depends on what you mean by gluten-free flour . If you are buying a gluten-free flour mix that it labeled for all-purpose use then you should be able to substitute that and get a reasonably good result . Substituting straight rice or almond flour in a standard recipe will not work well , because the mixes have a blend of ingredients designed to make it perform similar to flour . It may take some recipe/flour experimentation to get it as close to what you are used to , but will definetly make something edible . There are also various almond-flour based pancake recipes which work well .
Instant flour has the advantage of speed and ease . You can pretty much always do without - but for home cooks in a hurry , it can be an easy solution . Its used for sauces , but sometimes recommended for pastry work because of the ultra low protein content . Normally , when adding flour to a sauce you 'll need to make it into a slurry or roux and mix in correctly to avoid lumps . Then you 'll need to cook it for a bit to get rid of the ' flour taste ' . With instant flour , its just pour and stir - no clumps , no waiting . My understanding is that this is ultra low protein flour that as been flash hydrated , cooked ( possibly with steam ) , dehydrated , and then finely ground . This means its pretty much ' ready ' to use - it wo n't taste ' floury ' since its already been cooked and the superfine particles are supposed to not clump . ( It may also contain some malted barley flour as a dough conditioner ) . You could try ( this is just an idea ) making it at home by basically repeating the above process - steam cake flour , dehydrate , grind ... but I do n't know why you would . If you going to do all that , just make a slurry or roux or use cake flour . This <URL> lays out a few interesting uses . Using it for crepes because it will hydrate quicker . Using it for pastry work when you can get pastry flour and you do n't want the bleachness of cake flour .
You can not easily cool and reheat a decent sized lasagna in 3 to 4 hours and get down to 4C for any length of time to make it worthwhile It was mostly sterile from the baking process . If you leave the oven door closed it will stay clean and warm for a few hours . Simply be re-heated 30 minutes before serving . You could under-cook it slightly to allow for this , but for lasagna is usually improves with more cooking You could also consider leaving the oven on low , and keeping it hot till serving time . This may degrade some foods , it depends on what 's in it . Keep it above 70C ( 160F )
What you are looking for is called wholemeal flour . Here 's a quick US to UK baking translation guide . US on the left , UK on the right : All-purpose flour = plain flour bread flour = strong flour ( both have extra gluten ) whole wheat flour = wholemeal flour 1 stick of butter is 113g ( get a scale , trust me ) 1 large egg = 1 medium egg
Salt serves two primary purposes in baking : To regulate yeast Salt kills yeast . The addition of salt to a yeast leavened dough prevents the little beasties from growing completely out of control . To enhance and mask specific flavors Salt is almost a universal flavor enhancer . Virtually anything that tastes good , will taste better with salt . What typically comes as a surprise to people is that this holds true with sweet things too , particularly chocolate . The addition of even a tiny bit of salt can make a sweet dish significantly sweeter . It also serves to mask the taste of raw flour . Update Also according to <URL> salt affects the strength and shelf life of baked goods .
I use a liquid oil instead of a spray oil ; you 're far more likely to get hot spots with a spray , which is bad for any kind of cooking . That stuff works better as a grease than an actual cooking oil . I also tend to have pretty good success by frying the tortillas up to just a hint of golden-brown ( dark brown spots is overdone ) and then finishing it off ( i.e. to melt the cheese ) in a low-heat oven . As an added benefit , if you 're making a largish batch then that makes it easy to keep them warm until they 're all ready to serve . YMMV , but I find this to be the case for a whole lot of stovetop cooking ; with the direct heat , it 's very easy to dry foods out before they 're cooked to the stage you want . It 's far easier to control the heat in an oven and just use the stove for an initial ( or final ) fry/sear .
Robert Cartaino 's answer hits a main point : sourdough cultures are adapted to what they are typically fed . When switching flours , it may take a while for the culture to adjust . The starter may seem a bit sluggish at first . That said , I would NOT recommend trying to start a wheat culture if you already have a healthy starter that began with rye . There are two main reasons . First , rye is particularly rich in certain sugars and food that natural yeasts tend to like , so rye starters naturally tend to look more " lively " than wheat starters , especially in the early stages of a starter . Part of what you may be seeing in your transition to wheat is simply less activity produced because the food source is less rich in nutrients , not necessarily because the yeast and bacteria ca n't digest it . Second , a lot of recipes to generate new starters recommend using rye at the beginning , regardless of what you ultimately plan to feed the starter . Because it provides a strong food source for young cultures , it 's usually a lot easier to begin with rye ( perhaps this is why you did ) . In my experience , it tends to take new wheat starters at least twice as long to get strongly established compared to rye , and there 's a higher chance of failure if you do n't use a good recipe . For both of these reasons , some people even recommend always feeding your starter with rye flour , even if you tend to make wheat-based bread . Since many people have success doing that ( and I have personally ) , I do n't think you need to begin a whole new culture with wheat alone . If your starter really is sluggish ( and not just a little less active than it was with rye ) , you can help your starter to adapt to the new food . I 'm not sure what your typical feeding routine is or what the hydration level of your starter is . But the general thing to do in these circumstances is to dilute your starter and feed it large quantities of the new food . For example , if you maintain 200 grams of your starter normally , I would discard all but maybe 40-50 grams and then add enough new flour and water to get back to 200 grams in whatever your usual proportion is . ( Some people would be even more extreme in diluting the starter and cut the starter proportion even further . ) Within a few days of feedings like this , you will have strongly selected the yeast and bacteria that thrive on whole wheat and your starter should be strong again . After a week of feedings like this , I doubt you could distinguish the performance of your starter from one that was begun on wheat . ( Note that the specific microorganisms may still be slightly different , but your starter should do a fine job raising dough and providing flavor . )
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
You could use sugar substitutes but you should take care to use one that is heat stable . Sugar Substitute with Stevia as main ingredient can be used but you need to inquire to what ratios you would need to use your specific brand with . Acesulfame Potassium is heat stable but is 200 times sweeter than regular sugar . The general rule of thumb I was taught is 1 gram per quarter cup of sugar . Sucralose : Granulated sucralose can be used as an equal-volume substitute for sugar . ( Raw sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sugar , so you 'd use less , but the granulated form contains fillers to bring it up to the normal volume . ) There may be some considerations in making ice cream with this as when using this for baking the baking process is accelerated to a certain degree . Be careful with this one . Saccharin and Aspartame should be avoided because they are heat sensitive . Other more natural sugar substitutes include honey , fruit juice concentrates and refined fructose .
Once you have learned to recognize good dough consistency by feel , you might decide to add more flour . This is because even when you weigh , your texture can be influenced by small changes in the gluten content in your brand and batch of flour ( it is a natural product after all , and the difference between 11 and 11.5 % is already noticeable ) and by the humidity of your storage room . Before you have learned to recognize the perfect texture by feel , only use additional flour to prevent sticking to utensils , unless it feels terribly wet and flows everywhere ( but then you probably measured wrong ) .
Honey is your real binding agent here , not maple syrup . You can substitute the sugar-free syrup but be aware of what 's in it - according to the ingredients , it 's mostly <URL> , which is both a <URL> and a laxative . Now , ordinarily , I would n't tell people to worry about the digestive effects of sorbitol , but that 's a seriously large quantity you 'd be adding , so if any of you have sensitive stomachs , beware of eating too much of that trail mix at once . The other property - humectancy - means that what you end up with is going to be moister than what you 'd get with pure maple syrup . That may or may not be a good thing depending on your tastes . Since your issue seems to be a lack of availability rather than a problem with sugar itself , I 'd personally substitute generic pancake syrup , sugar syrup or even corn syrup instead . Or , if you 're really keen on the sugar-free stuff , you can use less of it and add more honey because the sorbitol will help keep the whole product moist . If you really want to cut down on the sugar , you can also use agave nectar , which is a fairly close substitute for honey ( a bit thinner ) , and could also stand in for maple syrup if used in combination with another syrup and perhaps some maple extract or maple flavouring . It wo n't be the same flavour , but , texture-wise , it should be a pretty close match .
None of those flours on its own is a good substitute for bread flour , at least for making yeast raised breads . Yeast raised breads require the development of gluten , which is possible only with a wheat based flour . This leaves you only three choices : Whole wheat flour Maida Semolina Comparing the characteristics of each of these to bread flour : Whole wheat flour , depending on the wheat from which it is milled , may have higher or lower protein levels . Your particular whole wheat flour has a moderately high protein level , at the bottom end of the bread flour range . However , the bran that is a component of whole wheat flour is very sharp at the small scale , and does not participate in the chemistry or physical structure of gluten creation . In fact , the sharp edges of the bran actually serve to physically block formation of gluten strands , and even cut already formed strands . For this reason , whole wheat flour is less than ideal for some bread making . In general , you would want to substitute only a portion of bread flour with whole wheat flour ; in fact , it is better to use it only in bread recipes specifically designed for it . If you do choose to use it in lieu of bread flour , consider starting with only 25 % of the total flour amount . Finally , whole wheat flour has a different flavor than white flours , due to the additional components in the flour from the <URL> . The bran , the germ , and the endosperm all ground together ( thus the term whole wheat ) , giving the flour its own flavor from each of these components -- mostly the germ . This is also what leads to the shorter shelf life of whole wheat flour . Maida flour . According to <URL> , maida flour is a soft ( low protein ) flour comparable to cake flour or pastry flour . This means that it has much less protein , and much less gluten formation potential than bread flour does , on a weight for weight basis . Semolina . Semolina is a hard wheat flour with a high protein level , but is typically very coarsely ground . Generally , you can feel the individual granules when you pick it up and hold it between your fingers , and can see them when you look quite closely . This is a much larger grind than bread flour . You can make bread with semolina , as this recipe from <URL> demonstrates . With these components available to you , you would need to experiment to find the best possible outcome -- and unfortunately , that is not the best place to start if you are not already a a fairly comfortable bread maker . My best guess is that your best outcome would be from a mixture of semolina and maida , probably about 50-50 . However , the dough may take longer to hydrate and come together than expected , due to the larger grains of the semolina . If you wish to incorporate whole wheat flour , I recommend starting with 25 % of your total flour , and no more than 50 % total . Note : <URL> refers to an Indian flour called atta which is much closer in its description to bread flours ... is it not available in your region ?
Oh , have I got the answer for you . Xanthan gum . Here is an <URL> by two of my favorite bloggers on how to get started using it . Xanthan gum is easy to find at health food stores because gluten-free bakers use it extensively .
There is no official standard . The USDA uses 125g/cup , but labels on packages claim different weights for one cup : Gold Medal brand : 130g King Arthur brand : 113g <URL> : 137g superpacked : 165g I always convert my recipes to weights using 140g/cup .
Of those two , Maida flour is the closest to ' Western ' all-purpose flour ( which is an American term . It is called plain flour in Britain ) . Atta flour is made from durum wheat , which is used for things like pasta ( and of course Indian breads like chapatis ) . Maida flour is made with ' regular ' wheat , but it also has a lower protein content than all-purpose flour ( 8-10 % as opposed to 9-12 % ) . The impact of this lower protein level will depend on what you 're cooking . Maida flour should be good for making cakes , for example .
Just as with kneading , stirring develops the gluten in the flour . over-mixing batter is a culinary no-no ( fr . non-non ) . Batters are frequently rested in the refrigerator so the gluten can relax . Foods fried in batter that has been overworked and deprived of adequate rest is like a chef exposed to the same conditions -- tough and tired . Whole wheat flour has considerable difficulty developing its gluten potential because when the outer coat ( bran ) is ground up and combined with the starchy endosperm , sharp particles of bran chop up the strands of gluten as they attempt to form . So the very quality that makes whole wheat flour such a ' pain ' in the ass for bread making makes it highly useful for batters . Whole wheat has practically become my default flour . It 's fine for dusting food articles on their way to the sauté pan , and for making roux . But bear in mind that you may need to use a little more roux than before to achieve a given degree of thickening . That 's because the bran coat displaces a small portion of the starchy endosperm .
It 's not quite as effective as xanthan gum but I find arrowroot flour works wonders . You can also try locust bean gum or psyllium husk ( soak it in water before mixing so that it can dissolve ) Those are more starchey than the gums and are meant to be mixed with amaranth , rice , quinoa , or other more coarse flours it gives you that same " slimey " start that hold the bubbles as the bread cooks . That 's generally gone by the time it 's cooked . When you 're using guar gum , try to keep the quantity down to about 1 % by weight of the dry ingredients . Also give it time to fully hydrate before adding the rest of the ingredients . I normally mix mine in dry with the flour and then add milk or water to get things wet and then leave it for a couple minutes before continuing . If the gum ( or even the arrowroot flour ) is properly hydrated it will be more effective in baking . Plus you can use less liquid overall which is good because it 's easy to overdo the liquid in GF bread .
Note that wheat is a type of grass , and is technically a grain . Grains without gluten Not all grains have gluten -- only those closely related to wheat do . Grains which do not have gluten include : Corn ( maize ) and its variants or derivatives such as cornmeal , polenta , hominy , or masa Rice ( all varieties ) A note on rice : some varieties are called " glutinous " . This just sounds similar to " gluten " , but is in fact used to indicate the rice 's stickiness . Glutinous rice does not have gluten , not even as traces , its stickiness comes from a special type of starch . Millet Sorghum Oats ( although many oat products are processed in plants that may have had wheat ) Sometimes confused for grains Note that the following gluten free seeds are not grains , although sometimes they are confused for grains : Wild rice Quinoa Buckwheat ( despite the name , not a wheat nor a grain ) Amaranth Non-grains used as gluten-free starches and flours Therefore , all grain-like , starchy , or flour-type foods which are not grasses are always gluten free , including wild rice , quinoa ( despite any other issues ) , and so on . Additionally , flours or seeds based on non-grain seeds , nuts , and legumes are always gluten free , although there may be other dietary sensitivities . These include : Almonds Soy beans Peanuts Chickpeas Mesquite flour Amaranth Quinoa Wild rice Finally , starches and flours based on roots , rhizomes , and so on are gluten free , including : Potato Sweet potato ( True ) yams Tapioca Grains containing gluten The following grains are all wheat relatives , and have gluten to a greater or lesser degree : Wheat Spelt Rye Tritical Barley Kamut Note that the following are all processed wheat products or specific wheat varieties , and should be avoided to maintain gluten free diets : Farina Durum Semolina Couscous See also : <URL> <URL>
Your question has two main parts , what 's elastic about gluten , and why do n't other plants have this unicorn we call a gluten protein . I 'll provide some background info first , but feel free to skip ahead to the spoilers if you like . Quick and dirty background on proteins ... All proteins ( like gluten ) are made of differing sequences , and number of about 20 or so basic amino acids ( glutamine , lysine , cysteine , arginine , isoleucine , just to name a few ) . So when we talk about large proteins like gluten , it 's sometimes hard to remember that chemically , we are talking about many-many amino acid ( AA ) molecules which link together . The way the AA 's link together matters because , the chemical interactions create the overall larger shape , and helps determine the physical properties of the final protein . If I did n't put you to sleep , or you want to geek-out on this stuff : resources regarding the secondary ( bonding between AA 's which creates alpha-helices and beta-pleated sheets ) , tertiary ( AA side chain interactions and AA 's backbone ) , and quaternary ( 3D ) structures of proteins , pubmed is where you need to go . Glutens and what they are : Gluten is the main storage form of proteins in wheat . Gluten itself is a fusion of glutenin and gliadin protein units which belong to the prolamin superfamily ( prolamines are cool , look them up ) . Gluten subunits fall into three broad categories : High molecular weight ( HMW ) prolamines , ( glutenin subunits ) approximately 6-10 % of protein Sulfur-rich prolamins ( approximately 70-80 % of protein ) which include : gamma-gliadins , alpha-gliadins , and the B - and C-type low molecular weight ( LMW ) subunits of glutenin Sulfur-poor prolamins ( approximately 10-20 % of protein ) include : v-gliadins , and D-type LMW subunits of glutenin Variances in the spread of these proteins contribute to the way wheat varietals are utilized commercially ( like winter or summer wheats ... you have seen the variations available to buy on store shelves ) . The composition of gluten protein in whatever wheat strain that 's being used translates into differing physical properties ( elasticity , density , etc ) in the dough it makes . Where do the elastic properties come from ? Elastic properties in gluten come from the way the components of the protein matrix interact with water . The gluten proteins react with water in ways that other storage forms of protein can not , namely in the swelling/hydration bit . There are two things going on at the same time . The gliadin sections of the gluten protein contribute to the friction with which the hydrating liquid is able to move around in and near the protein matrices ( viscocity ) . The glutenin portion of the molecule is responsible for the elasticity or strength of the protein matrix . Glutenin seems to undergo reversible ( not as common as you 'd hope ) stretching because of the way it is folded . Why do n't any other grain proteins seem to have gluten ? I would like to point out this is more of a plant physiology/phylogeny question rather than one related to cooking . They just do n't have what it takes . The way different plants create the storage form of their proteins is determined by their specific DNA sequences within the genome . AA Structure , order ( N-C terminus ) and final shape of the proteins created by the plant are a result of the transcription , translation and post-translational modifications of DNA sequences in the plant . References for those that want them : ( I did try to find free online ones ) Cereal seed storage proteins : structures , properties and role in grain utilization <URL> Wheat Gluten Functionality as a Quality Determinant in Cereal-Based Food Products Annual Review of Food Science and Technology Vol . 3 : 469-492 ( Volume publication date April 2012 ) DOI : 10.1146 / annurev-food-022811-101303 Distribution of gluten proteins in bread wheat ( Triticum aestivum ) grain <URL> The formation and properties of wheat flour doughs <URL> Wheat Protein Composition and Properties of Wheat Glutenin in Relation to Breadmaking Functionality <URL>
You 're very correct the grinders are pretty pricey . I believe we paid about $ 300 for ours . There are a few good reasons for me to have a grinder . Whether they are good reasons for you is your call . 1 - I can grind whatever I want . Right now I am using hard white wheat . Unbleached , hard , white wheat flour is more expensive than your run-of-the-mill flour and comes in annoyingly small bags . I also grind beans , quinoa , oats , etc. . 2 - I can control the fineness of the grind . This is a minor thing but it is nice for me to be able to experiment with the texture of the product . In practice I usually leave it on the same setting but it is finer than the flour I can purchase . 3 - Wheat flour is very perishable . I go through a fair bit of flour . As much as 200 oz in a heavy week . In order to have enough wheat flour on hand for a couple weeks it would have to live in the freezer . I do n't want to waste that much freezer space . Whole wheat berries last almost indefinitely . 4 - I like the flavor better . It tastes fresher and more nutty . This may be imagined - I have n't done any double blind tests . I should do that . 5 - Cost - I had to do some of the maths as I do n't usually pay a lot of attention to this . King Arthur white wheat flour costs approximately $ 1.00 a lbs . I buy 25lbs bags of bulk white wheat for $ 12 - $ 15 or $ 0.50 - $ 0.60 a pound . If I use around 10 lbs of flour a week ( usually a little less , it varies ) I am saving about $ 5 a week . If you do n't have access to wheat that cheap or do n't make that much bread then of course the savings will be less . As for nutrition - I read all the time that the nutrients in whole wheat flour degrade very quickly . I 'm not a chemist but those results seem plausible to me based on how quickly the flour itself degrades in quality .
Maybe ! Flour is unusually variable in how densely it will settle , so this can make a big difference for some recipes . The purpose of sifting is to make the amount of flour in a given volume reliable . ( If you are measuring by weight , you do n't need to sift . ) By moving around the sifted flour , or pouring it from one container into another , you are changing the way it is packed . Therefore , you can easily " unsift " it in the course of normal handling . Proper sifting is done straight into the measuring device .
Egg replacements are an option depending on where you live and what products are available , but from what I hear they do n't produce a similar result to eggs . Most egg-free french toast recipes use applesauce mixed with milk or yogurt and a bit of sugar for dipping , and from what I 've heard they work well .
The FDA does not currently have a legal definition of stone ground . Companies like Hodgson 's Mill , Bob 's Red Mill , and Arrowhead Mills have petitioned the FDA to set a definition in the past under the concept of truth in labeling , to no avail . <URL>
When making lactose free milk , the lactose is n't actually removed . Instead , lactase is added to the milk . This breaks down the lactose into its component sugars , glucose and galactose . Lactose is one of the least sweet sugars , relative to sucrose ( table sugar ) . Both glucose and galactose are significantly sweeter than the original lactose , hence why lactose free milk tastes much sweeter . <URL> <URL>
The BBC lists strong white flour as simply flour made from hard white wheat , which tends to have a higher gluten content . By mixing all purpose flour ( German : 550 , French : 55 ) with the package recommended amount of vital wheat gluten or by using bread flour you should be able to make bread in your machine just fine . I usually use either AP flour or a mixture of AP and whole wheat ( German : 1600 , French : 150 ) , or even all whole wheat ( although with all wheat I find adding gluten is extremely helpful for getting a well-risen loaf ) . You can also buy other types of high gluten flour , either with that label or listed as bread flour . If you live in a part of the world with " 0 " and " 00 " flour , the protein content of " 00 " flour is similar to that of all purpose flour , but the grind of all purpose flour will be more coarse . " Panifiable " 00 flour has the gluten content of bread flour ( <URL> ) .
Found the second answer to my question . Per each cup of gluten free flour , add one tsp of xanthan gum ! Woo hoo !
00 is extra-fine flour , the most refined grade . <URL> a useful page for more about the old flour grading system . Other than pasta I use it for thickening sauces , and I sometimes make pizza dough with it , although I ca n't tell the difference between using 00 and good quality bread flour . I 'd use 00 for Gnocci certainly as the chefs do , but most home cooks just use plain flour and seem to get good results . Basically , if you have it or can get it use it , if not plain flour is fine .
For 1 cup self-raising flour , add 1 1/2 tsp baking powder + 1/4 tsp salt to 1 cup all purpose flour . ( http://www.joyofbaking.com/IngredientSubstitution.html ) Edit : Calculation added by Sebbidychef : According to <URL> 1 cup of un-sifted all-purpose flour is equal to 120g . Therefore 1000 divided by 120 is 8.3 recurring ( 1000/120 = 8.3 ) . 8.3 multiplied by 1.5 ( 1 teaspoons ) is 12.45 , so let 's round it to 12.5 ( 12 teaspoons or 4.167 tablespoons , rounded to 4 tablespoons ) , ( 8.3 * 1.5 = 12.45 ) . In metric this is 45g of baking powder . 8.3 multiplied by 0.25 is 2.075 , so let 's round it to 2 ( 2 teaspoons ) , ( 8.3 * 0.25 = 2.075 ) . In metric this is 10g if salt . So for 1kg of flour you will need 45g baking powder ( 4 tablespoons ) of baking powder and 10g ( 2 teaspoons ) of salt .
One kitchen I used to work in had a dry store that was basically a shed and in winter when the flour would be particularly cold we would always warm the flour before making bread . It always worked beautifully . The thing is you 're looking for the overall best temperature for your dough for the yeast to be active . So it 's no good mixing warmish water with cold flour - your dough temp will keep the yeast sluggish . That was our theory anyway .
While I found many references to Chinese egg noodles , I did not find much information on Japanese egg noodles . Digging into the edit history of your question , it appears that the actual product you would like to substitute for is <URL> . Their website is parsimonious with information , but does call the product vermicelli , and only indicates that they are made with wheat , and does not mention egg . <URL> , a producer of Asian ingredients for the US market , suggests using suggests substituting Italian style fettuccine or spaghetti for Chinese egg noodles . Putting this all together , you should be able to substitute dried Italian vermicelli , spaghetti , fettuccine or angel hair in the your recipe with good results . Check the package to ensure that the ingredients are only semolina ( and water ) , as some Italian pastas are made with egg ( this is most likely with the fettuccine shape ) . Any non-egg based semolina pasta will be completely cholesterol free . See also : <URL> from Recipe Tips .
The difference between gluten and gliadin is the one already explained in your question : Gliadin is a precursor to gluten . You could say that gliadin is to gluten what grains are to porridge . Gluten is the result of glutenin reacting with gliadin in the presence of water , just like porridge is the result of grains " reacting " with milk in the presence of heat . I do n't understand why you are asking for separating them . It would be hard to do , and will achieve no good purpose . First , I do n't know if there is a way to extract the gliadin from wheat . There are industrial processes for extracting " gluten " out of wheat , but I do n't know if they produce a mixture of glutenin and gliadin ( which could be further purified ) or if they already cause the glutenin and gliadin to bind a gluten . But note that the remaining flour will not be gluten-free , as these methods can not extract every last molecule of glutenin and gliadin . So you can not remove the glutenin from flour and stay with gliadin-containing flour . Second , assuming that you can extract the gliadin , you can add it to some gluten free flour like cornflour . But there is absolutely no reason doing so . The definition you cited only says that gliadin is " essential " for rising , but not that it alone produces rising . It is the gluten itself that produces rising , and the gliadin is essential only because without it , there would be no gluten . Gliadin alone does not have any benefits . Third , if you add gliadin to a gluten free flour , you will not have removed any of the problems inherent in using gluten . People who are allergic to gluten will still be allergic to the gliadin . To sum it up , gliadin is a structural part of gluten , and if you can find a method to extract it without the glutenin , you will experience no benefits of baking with it , or prevent any undesired side effects like triggering allergies or celiac .
Flour labeled as Cake flour usually is weak flour : low value , or less formally " low protein " or " fewer gluten " . This is somehow weird , as some cakes will require weak flour , whether others nedd strong flour ( for yeasted dough cakes , if they add lots of fat/oil to the dough , if they add lots of sugar , pieces of fruits/nuts , etc ) . I specifically do n't know whether Maida is strong or weak flour , despite <URL> . Wheat plants has been selected for several milleniums to get more productive varieties , and , yes , grains that give stronger flour . Substitutes as weak flour Trying to get flour from a more " primitive " variety of wheat , such as <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . These are expensive where I live , and usually sold as bio , but maybe spelt is easily found in India . As they have not been so " genetically selected " , they still have less gluten than today 's " normal " flour . They also tend to have more and better taste than " normal " flour . Another flour with low gluten content is rye . It has a different taste than wheat , but I thing it fits really well with cakes . This grain grows better in colder climates , so I 'm not very sure how hard will it be to get it where you live . Other flours , as rice or corn / maize have no gluten . It means gas bubbles wo n't be trapped in , and will result in a much too dense crumb . You might search some gluten-free bread tricks to solve this . Substitutes as strong flour Any bread flour will probably work . Maybe it wo n't rise as much and you 'll get a crumb with a denser consistency , more similar to a " chewing gum " than a " soft cake " . But if you are ok with this , you can go on . Note ( Thank to @Anisha for the suggestion ) : Notice that different flours have different absorption , so some readjustment on hydration should probably be made to the original recipe .
Milk wo n't help you - it 's mostly water , and gluten develops from flour ( more accurately , specific proteins in flour ) and water . The way to reduce gluten development is to incorporate more fat into the batter . Lipids are hydrophobic and will prevent further hydration of the glutenin . Using a lower-protein flour will also help . If you 're not already using cake flour , the reason it 's called cake flour is because of the lower protein content . That being said , have you actually tried leaving the batter coarse ? Just because the batter is lumpy does not mean that the cake will have big lumps . The entire mixture is wet , so unless you leave huge lumps of dry flour in the batter , you wo n't end up with a lumpy cake . There 's a difference between " do n't overmix " and " do n't mix " - you 're supposed to mix enough to incorporate , just do n't try homogenize it .
Coconut flour is what remains <URL> when extracting the milk from coconut . So I doubt you can make anything resembling coconut milk ( much less coconut cream ) from it , unless the manufacturer has done an exceptionally poor job of doing so already !
The best is the <URL> If you ca n't find that flour locally , there are sellers online . I find a mix of bread flour &amp; semolina works very well too . This is my favourite pizza dough recipe : <URL>
It does n't go into the meat , it soaks up water and becomes a slurry . The slurry is transparent , so you do n't see it . If you fry it as it is , you wo n't prevent spraying and sticking the same way it would have been possible with a dry flour layer . If you roll it again , you will have these effects again , plus slightly more heat buffering because of the double amount of crust . The crust will be more noticeable in taste , towards schnitzel style . In general , you do n't want it to happen at all . If you miss your timing and it happens , re-roll . But the proper way to do it is to roll each piece separately , directly before dropping it in the pan . This gives you the optimal effects from the flour with minimal change in taste . If you want the benefits and taste of a thick crust , make a real schnitzel , including pounding the meat thin and making several alternating layers of egg and flour in the crust . Double dipping in flour is not a good approximation , it is a middle thing which does n't approach the good parts of either technique .
The summary would be that there is a larger variety of flour ( measured by gluten content ) in the US than in Europe . SAJ14SAJ described the gluten categories of American flour , although exact figures for the category limits are hard to pin down . Peter Reinhart says cake flour has 6 to 7 percent gluten , pastry flour has 7.5 to 9.5 percent gluten , all-purpose flour has 9.5 to 11.5 percent gluten , and high-gluten flour has 13.5 to ( rare but possible ) 16 percent gluten . ( From The bread baker 's apprentice , section Types of flour ) . I measure exactly my gluten percentages and can confirm that these are good for recipes of the respective categories . These flours are all made from the same flour grade , with about 50 % of the grain removed and only the soft center used for fine bread . The difference comes from the grain type used , hard spring wheat ( high in gluten ) or soft winter wheat ( low in gluten ) . In Europe , where only soft winter wheat is grown , all the flour is in the 9-11 % range . But mills will sometimes enrich certain types of flour with added gluten , or by blending with imported flour , or by milling more of the bran ( wholer flour always has more protein ) in order to make some specialized high-gluten flours , e.g. Italian pizza flour . These flours are , aside from whole wheat flour , not widely available to home bakers . I can well imagine that a European trying to bake a European recipe with American bread flour will get bad results . But if they get the AP flour , there will be no problem in the gluten . There are many other properties of flour which differ , beyond the gluten content . But recipes are never so sensitive to them that they 'd fail . If you ca n't tell the difference between two brands of flour in your home country , then you wo n't be able to tell the difference between flour with the same gluten content from the other continent either , if both are unbleached and of the same grade ( = amount of bran included and particle size ) . All in all , this claim sounds like an unfounded emotionally-loaded attack . It is possible that the person who made it indeed failed because of gluten content , because they did n't know that they should be buying AP and not bread flour . Or that it failed for another reason and they were looking for a scapegoat , and garbled some half-remembered knowledge ( by the way , while the American wheat is genetically different , the gluten level difference was achieved centuries ago by selective breeding ) to excuse their failure .
You have several options for the crust . It is possible to purchase mixes that will get you started . There are also several recipes available . A good resource for all your gluten-free baking is <URL> , and you can find a recipe there . Another great option is former pastry chef <URL> at Tartlette . <URL> has compiled a list of gluten-free baking recipes which may also provide you good jumping off points . You can make a dairy free crust by replacing butter with lard or vegetable shortening . Margarine is likely not be dairy free . Lard will provide a texture and taste that is better than an all shortening crust , but shortening is easier to find in stores . If the dairy free requirement is a requirement to avoid casein , you will have to do some experimentation on your own to find an appropriate egg replacement , as gluten free crusts appear to require eggs to hold together . Options for egg replacers can be found <URL> and <URL> . Once you have assembled a crust recipe from these tips , if you have questions about it or are struggling you can ask a follow-on question here about how to improve the crust and the community can provide specific help on a provided recipe . In general it appears that the gluten free crusts available are actually similar to work with versus a regular pie crust , something that is not always the case in gluten free baking . As usual you want to do everything cold and refrigerate your dough over night . Pie dough of all forms is easiest to roll when you place it between two floured sheets of parchment paper . Remove the top piece of parchment paper , flip the bottom piece with crust on it ( hold it all together , because your crust should n't be sticking ) into the pie plate or onto your pie , and remove the top piece . Apple pie is sometimes thickened with flour , and obviously you do not want to do this when cooking gluten-free . The absolute best pie thickener is actually not flour , so you are set here . In taste tests the editors of Cooks Illustrated determined that instant tapioca , a gluten-free product , is the best pie thickener . Make sure , however , not to use more than 2 tablespoons or your pie may be gummy . Since apple slices contain pectin , you should n't need more than 2 tablespoons for your pie to set up . Sugar , apples , and the usual apple pie spices ( if you choose to spice your pie - with good apples you can actually make an amazing pie with simply sugar , instant tapioca , and apples ) should all be gluten free and dairy free , with the usual caveat that in gluten-free cooking and baking you want to make sure that there has been no gluten added to anything by carefully reading labels .
The smell is of rancid fats in the flour . It is a very distinct smell , but hard to describe . I would agree that " sour " is part of it . The best way to learn is by comparison . Smell some fresh , clean flour and remember what it is like . Any kind of unpleasant odor than that is rancidity . You may have smelled it also if you opened a box of cereal that has been around too long , or even poppy or sesame seeds - anything with fats that sits around at room temp will eventually go rancid .
i am celiac , ideally you should clean your entire kitchen , clean out your silverware and utensil drawers and wash all utensils in the dishwasher . Wipe all surfaces and sinks with bleach wipes . Scrub all pots and pans , to remove gluten films then wash in dishwasher . give all dishes to be used a run through the dishwasher . off limit items are , seasoned pans ( cast iron , or porcelain ) , earthenware , pasta pots , strainers , toasters , cooking stones , wood spoons or utensils , cutting boards , blenders and crockpots . to avoid contamination use fresh mayo , mustard , peanut butter jars , etc. . do not use any ingredients such as sugar that may have been contaminated with flour from use while baking . because you are not familiar with ingredients that contain gluten , use only pure ingredients if you are cooking for your celiac guest . avoid spice blends . <URL> hope this was a bit of help .
Separating the eggs and whipping the egg whites before folding into the batter could assist in this . At home it 's not a problem , but if it 's a very busy that you had them in they 're not likely to be doing this due to the fact that this will need to be done in batches . Adding a bit of baking soda in addition to the baking powder could assist as well , but only if you 're using buttermilk . If you 're using regular milk the baking soda is going to create a soapy taste . In the case of buttermilk and baking soda , the primary leavening would be coming from the baking powder and then the acidity of the buttermilk would provide the reaction for the soda to give that extra " oomph " . If you 're using baking soda then you 'll have to use the batter right away otherwise those bubble will rise to the surface and pop , releasing their CO2 to the air . Same goes with adding seltzer water ... add just before cooking the pancakes . As for replacing milk with seltzer water ... this will add bubbles to the batter but having less fat in the batter ( presuming you 're using whole milk ) will increase the gluten development . If you 're using low-fat or nonfat buttermilk or regular milk it may not be as much of a difference . The benefit of buttermilk ( besides flavor ) is the acidity that it provides . Acidic doughs do n't allow gluten to develop as easily and therefore create a more tender texture . Overmixing pancake batter is a MAJOR issue with most people . Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients , add the liquid ingredients which have already been beaten together and then carefuly fold just until combined so there are n't major pockets of dry ingredients but by no means should the batter be smooth . Mixing to a smooth consistency will develop gluten and create tough pancakes . A few lumps are fine as they will hydrate upon sitting . If you 're not using baking soda and seltzer water you can improve tenderness by letting your pancake batter sit after mixing for 30-60 minutes . This is the idea behind chilling pastry crusts . It not only allows gluten to relax but mainly it allows the starch granules of the flour to absorb moisture , hydrate , and expand ( bloom ) . This is could likely be part of what contributed to the pancakes you enjoyed at the restaurant . If it 's a very busy place , most likely they produce their pancake batter in large batches a day ahead for the next day 's service . This extended resting time would allow for maximum hydration of the starch which will make a thicker batter . The thicker the batter the less spread you 'll have on the griddle . Obviously this provides limitations if you wake up with an appetite for pancakes !
Sort of . Nut flours are the base of many " flourless " cakes and torts . This one from <URL> is typical , and uses almond flour , which is more common than walnut . <URL> that specifically uses walnut . Note that these are not examples of using nut flours as a substitution for flour , they are recipes developed for nut flours . Both of those recipes start with whole nuts that are ground in a food processor or spice grinder . Wheat flour behaves very differently , if you want to bake a cake using nut flour in combination with or instead of wheat flour , search for recipes that call for nut flour . Trying to work out an actual substitution would be fraught with peril . Nuts are full of fat and non-gluten protein , wheat flour has starch and gluten forming protein ( although a high gluten level is not usually desirable in cakes , that 's why cake flour is lower in protein than AP , so that it creates less gluten ) . Now I see from the edit to the question that the zucchini/chocolate cake that led to the qustion is actually a kind of cheesecake . Cheesecakes generally do n't contain flour , in the case of your recipe the nuts are actually replacing a portion of the cream cheese . In other cheesecakes you might see nuts in the crust or garnish , but I 've never seen flour in the filling .
Chickpea flour ( <URL> , besan ) is very useful in Indian cookery . The most common use in the West is probably for making bhajis and pakora . The most popular of which are <URL> , very popular in the UK . They are essentially an spiced onion fritter , shaped in either discs or balls . Any vegetables can be used to make pakora ( which is essentially the same thing ) or bhajis , but spinach ( sag pakora ) , aubergine ( us eggplant , brinjal bhaji ) , potato ( aloo pakora ) or cauliflower ( gobi pakora ) are the most common , sometimes in combination . Gram flour is also used for making <URL> ( also papad , papadum , a crisp fried pancake , served as an accompaniment to meals with chutney . One of the more commonly seen uses is in chevda ( sometimes chivda ) , or as we call it in the UK usually <URL> ( I believe it is called Punjabi Mix in the US ) . A mixture of dried savoury snacks , coated in spice . One of the primary ingredients is sev , a dried noodle made from gram flour . Mixtures predominantly composed of sev are called sev mamra . There are also a number of Indian sweets made with besan . <URL> ( barfi is something akin to fudge , made with condensed milk ) : <URL> ( little sweet balls ) : NB . You can use it as an egg substitute in vegan cookery , but soya flour works better for the same purpose and , in my opinion , has less associated flavour .
Do n't worry too much about it . Be careful that some doughs are wet ( high hydration - look at my <URL> ) , so they tend to stick more and are harder to manage . If a dough is hard to manage , just let it sit in the fridge for a couple of hours . It will become tougher and easier to handle . If you keep on adding flour , this will alter the bread formula ( affecting the salt content and hydration ) , an additional percent or two flour wo n't make much of a difference .
It is possible , whether it fits your definition of easily is questionable , though . Whole grain flour is made by grinding whole wheat/rye / ... berries until you get a fine flour , a technique used since the neolithic age . The method that is still in use today is basically " rubbing the grains between a firm base stone and a moving upper stone " , either shaped like a rolling pin or round and flat like a millstone . ( Increase the scale and you get a classic mill . ) So your mortar and pestle will work , even if they are not made of the types of sandstone , basalt or limestone that have the " right " mixture of coarseness and durability to make good millstones . The drawback ? Scale and time . You will probably need a lot of time , to get enough flour for a bread . For a starter , it should be ok , though . If you think about buying a mill because you decide your super-fresh flour is worth the effort and cost , note that good manual mills with ceramic stones are almost as expensive as electric ones , but are way less comfortable . I make a lot of things myself and by hand in my kitchen , but I would draw the line at cranking a mill for half an hour just to get flour for one bread . For a very " kitchen hack " style of grinding flour ( but obviously not " stone ground " ) , consider your food processor ( but check the manual first ! ) : Pulse a cup or two of wheat berries untill you see " flour " and " grits " forming . Sieve off the finer parts , return the coarser to the food processor , add more grains and continue . You can even use the coarser parts for some kinds of wholegrain bread - a question of taste and recipe .
It seems like a lot of recipes recomend gelatin , which could add to the stretchyness . I frequent serious eats and a while ago they posted this recipe and they claim that it is great and stretchy . <URL>
Flavor in most meats is generally determined by a few things . How the animal was raised and if it is of a particular heritage breed , how it was treated over it 's lifetime ( i.e. diet and environment ) , when and how it is slaughtered , how it is handled from the slaughterhouse to the butcher , was it properly stored , etc. . Also , how fatty the bird is and light to dark meat ratio will also determine flavor of the bird . I definitely have tried a lot of different types of " free range " , " organic " , and/or " local " chickens out there and you basically get what you pay for in terms of meat quality and flavor . At my restaurant we try to source best quality chickens , local , organic and free range if possible because it just tastes better and it coincides with our philosophy . Properly cooking and seasoning the chicken will also help .
In the interests of science I gave this a try . Used a can of carbonated water , boiled in my kettle . There was no boiling water explosion , although I more than half expected one . It seemed to maybe boil a little faster , but that 's more likely due to the fact that it 's less liquid than I usually heat . Being a tea fanatic I have a lot of flavored teas but I opted for PG Tips , figuring I would taste any difference a little more easily . I caught very little flavor difference from usual , maybe a little stronger but that could be chalked up to any number of things besides using carbonated water . So yeah , I think carbonated water would probably work in a pinch . Probably do n't put too much of it in the kettle , though . ( A small part of me still suspects that had it been full it would have shot boiling water everywhere ) .
To make you pancakes spread more , and thus be thinner , increase the amount of liquid in the recipe . This will make the batter less viscous , so that it will spread more before beginning to set , thus giving you thinner pancakes . I would start slowly , perhaps a couple of tablespoons extra milk ( or just plain water ) until you find the consistency that you like . You will also have to experiment to determine the appropriate cooking time , as the additional liquid will somewhat need to be cooked off to get the best texture . Of course , there is nothing wrong with using the bottom of your ladle to help the batter spread out a bit more . This is normal , and will somewhat even out as the pancakes cook .
No , flour and starch are very different things . Starch is a molecule consisting of a chain of glucose rings . It is one of the main ways plants store energy . In practice , it is extracted from many different grains and tubers such as potato , wheat , tapioca and corn . Flour is a food ingredient made from milling a grain very finely , and frequently also removing the outer hull of the grain . If nothing else is specified , saying just " flour " denotes non-whole-grain wheat flour . It so happens that starch is a molecule present in large amount in many flours . Wheat flour is about 90 % starch , and rice flour is close to 100 % . But it is still incorrect to assume interchangeability , for the same reason that " pan " and " iron " are not interchangeable words even when you are holding a pan made from 100 % iron . In the cases where starch is less than 100 % , it is even worse to use the terms interchangeably , because the parts which are present in a smaller amount often determine the properties of the flour , making it act much differently than pure starch in the kitchen . For example , white wheat flour contains around 10 % gluten , which allows you to make risen bread with it . Update As for interchangeable usage : There are a few corner cases , as Jolenealaska 's comment point out . For example , there are applications where you only need the properties of pure starch , but you can substitute a flour which is not 100 % starch , and the remaining ingredients wo n't get into the way . Thickening is one such application , another one is preventing dough from sticking . But in general , you can not assume that starch can be substituted for flour or the other way round . You 'd have to know how it works in your recipe so you can judge if the substitution is possible . As for the word use , some starches do n't need to be extracted by a special process , because the plant part in question already consists of starch and nothing else . They are produced by milling this plant part , and they are both a flour and a starch at the same time . The prevalent use of the word " starch " or " flour " is then a matter of cultural accident , and , as David Richerby notes , it can happen that different languages or dialects pick a different term , but this happens rarely . The terms are usually distinct and not ambiguous , especially for plants where you use both , such as wheat flour and wheat starch . Appendix : nitty gritty details on the special case of corn The corn flour case is a very complicated one . There you have many words whose meaning can overlap : corn starch is only the milled inner part of the kernel . It is a flour which is also a starch . It can be modified , and then it should n't be technically considered a flour any more . cornflour is the UK term for the milled inner part of the corn kernel , as David Richerby points out . However , in many countries the word ( or its literal translation ) is used for whole grain corn flour , which is yellow , and chemically has other ingredients than pure starch . the milled whole corn kernel is sometimes also called polenta . polenta also can be a word for corn semolina , which is also a milled kernel , but the particle size is larger than a flour . yet another meaning of polenta is a pap cooked from a milled whole kernel of either size ( semolina or flour ) . the pap cooked from pure corn starch is never a polenta , it is a pudding or blanchmange . These words are also used when the pap is cooked from pure starch extracted from another plant .
Yes ! I just came across this , and it just so happens I could use an orange in a slaw I 'm making right now . <URL> Simply lop off the ends , make a small incision in the side and carefully open to reveal easy-to-eat orange segments . ( Or as I prefer to call it , an orange caterpillar . ) I did it with my orange , and I had never peeled an orange so quickly : Now if you just want to eat the orange , you can just pluck off the segments as you pop them into your mouth . If you roll the orange around a bit first , before you lop off the ends ( as in @Barry Staes ' answer ) , it should make it even easier and more pith-free . But what was really neat is that by prepping it that way , I had a pretty close approximation to supremes , supremely easily ! ( haha ) With two passes of the knife and 5 seconds of picking at it , this is close enough for my slaw . Just flatten the " caterpillar " as much as you can with one hand , and with one slice ( or two ) , cut between the peel and the segments . I just picked away most of the remaining connective " stuff " and membranes with the knife and my fingers at this point , but a pair of kitchen shears would make even quicker work out of it . It 's not absolutely perfect , the traditional method of supreming <URL> would be the way to go if you 're gunning for a Michelin Star , but this is fine for more casual applications . With the practice of a couple more oranges , I think I could go from an intact orange to " cheater " supremed segments in less than a minute ( and without getting my hands sticky ! ) Pretty cool . BTW , there is a pretty neat animated GIF on the linked page that will make it all clear if the pictures do n't . EDIT : It works even better with grapefruit ! Open the grapefruit just enough to use a pair of kitchen shears to cut away the the connective membrane from the " points " of the segments ( what would be at the center of intact fruit ) . While you 're at it , remove any seeds . Be careful when you roll out the " caterpillar " to separate every segment and to put pressure evenly on all parts of the peel . The peel is a bit more prone to tearing than orange peel . Since the membranes between the segments are more like leather and less fragile than the membranes on orange segments , they are very easy to pluck away . This makes the supremed segments perfect . This gives better results even than the traditional method of supreming !
Pasta relies on gluten development for its strength and structure . Only wheat and its close relatives have the necessary precursor proteins , glutenin and gliadin , from which gluten is formed . You simply will not be able to make pasta from 100 % oat flour using a recipe designed for wheat flour , as oats do not contain gluten ( well , technically , its precursors ) . If you desire a gluten free pasta , you should search for recipes specifically for that purpose . They are often bound together with xantham gum or other hydrocolloids . If you are just looking for an interesting pasta as an alternative to the more traditional ones , you need to make sure you have enough gluten available to support the structure ( and overcome the weakening that will come from using oat flour , which will physically interrupt the gluten strands ) . I would suggest making sure you are using high protein wheat flour ( such as bread flour ) , and only substituting a portion ( no more than say 25 % , and you might want to start with smaller amounts to see how it works ) with oat flour . I have n't tried this , so you will need to experiment to find a good balance between oat flavor , and the ability for the pasta to hold its shape and structure .
Put your flour in water . It should be slightly fizzy due to the presence of baking powder if it is active self raising flour . If it is plain it should react like normal flour .
I have no trouble making lovely light lemon cake gluten free , and many other gluten free cakes too , I make them for a living . There is a substitute for gluten and it 's called Xanthan Gum . You can buy this separately to add to your flour ( about a teaspoonful for every 250g ) , or in a ready mixed flour blend , at least you can in the UK . A mixture of flours such as rice , potato starch , tapioca and maize/cornstarch works much better than a single flour when substituting for wheat flour . Each flour has its own unique characteristics and brings different properties to the cake . The combination of these , if got right , makes a light , moist and tasty cake , often better than wheat flour ones - this is feedback from my customers who are not coeliac ! There are recipes to be found on the web for making one 's own flour blends if needed , but look for a recipe that contains Xanthan Gum and it will not turn out like a brick . And there 's no need to cream the fat with the sugar and whisk the eggs separately etc. . I just use an all-in-one everything in the mixer bowl and mix .
Yes , of course you can keep flour in the freezer . For whole wheat flour , which is susceptible to rancidity due to the fat from the whole grain being included , it is even recommended . For white flour , according to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : For longer storage , keep white flours in the refrigerator in an airtight container . All-purpose and bread flour will keep up to two years at 40 F in your refrigerator , according to the Wheat Foods Council . They can be stored indefinitely in the freezer .
Yes.The basic ingredients for both are the same ; the difference lies in how they are cooked .
According to the <URL> Domino 's uses a blend of Mozzarella , American , Cheddar , Feta , Parmesan , and Provolone Cheeses . Somebody , apparently , with similar concerns asked Domino 's and <URL> : excerpt from letter , emphasis added : Domino 's Pizza Diced Cheese for Pizza is a specially produced cheese made exclusively for our use . It is a natural dairy product , produced from cultured , pasteurized milk , rennet ; and salts of calcium and/or sodium . The type of rennet used in the production of this cheese is restricted to a microbial-based rennet or a genetically-engineered rennet . Animal derived rennets will not be allowed . As far as the other cheeses ( Cheddar , Parmesan , Provolone , etc. ) , Domino 's does not specify the source of rennet used in these products . They may or may not contain animal rennet . This depends on the supplier 's current source and is always subject to change without notification to Domino 's Pizza .
You might try ground fennel seed , or even anise , but they will not have quite the same quality . You would certainly have to increase the quantity . In situations like this , I have to point out : it does not make sense to make a dish where you are forced to substitute for the ingredient which gives the dish its identity . Instead , make something where you can employ the star ingredient .
Typically , you go for 1 tbsp flour , 1 tbsp butter for each cup of liquid . You may have to adjust slightly , but that 's a good starting point . After the quantity of roux , the next factor to thickening strength is cooking time . The longer you cook the roux , and consequently , how dark it gets , the less thick the final result will be for a given quantity of roux and liquid . For a white sauce ( i.e. Bechamel and Bechamel-based sauces ) you want the roux to stay more or less white . For a Gumbo , you cook it until it 's light brown ( sometimes called red ) .
The air pressure is lower at higher altitudes ; when you add extra flour to your baked goods , it prevents them from rising too quickly or too much . ETA ( about the water ) : Water boils at a lower temperature at higher altitudes , so the extra water called for in high-altitude baking is to compensate for all the water turning to steam faster than it would at sea level .
As long as they 're all dry ingredients , then you should be just fine -- after all , that 's exactly what a box of packaged cake mix is . Again , if it 's just dry ingredients , I see no need to refrigerate it . I would put it in an airtight container -- preferably a glass jar * . Placed in your pantry , it should have a shelf-life of a least a couple of months . &#42; Glass jars are my preference for storing dry ingredients -- they 're easy sanitize , and the twist-off cover makes an airtight seal : <URL>
You already have mentioned the primary reason for adding the flour : to thicken the chowder . The author of this particular recipe has added it to the recipe while you are sauteeing the aromatics , I infer . This creates , in essence , a quick roux , cooking some of the raw taste out of the flour , and helping ensure that you will not get lumps . You could certainly thicken the chowder later with a flour slurry , for example , but this method is convenient and effective in this type of recipe .
Veal cows are male . So the best place to get them would be from a dairy farm . You know they have milk for the calf and they have little use for bulls . <URL> lists some farms and source around the US . In most parts of the US there are farmers that will try to treat their stock humanely , but they tend to be local organizations ( for now ) .
In my experience , it does n't really save money , but it 's still worth it because it 's fresh and better than store-bought at the same price . For me , 1kg of all purpose flour yields 1.6 kg of bread ( as two loaves ) . Each 13x4x4 " ( Pullman ) loaf weighs about 800 grams after cooling and yields between 24-30 slices depending on thickness . The cost per loaf is under $ 1.00 , and includes all ingredients , tax , and electric for mixing/baking/slicing . I 've made a few hundred loaves based on variations of this formula :
Mark Bittman actually includes a very handy quick-reference flour substitution table in <URL> ( mine is the 10th anniversary edition , not sure if it 's in previous editions ) . This assumes that the bread recipe calls for all-purpose flour and tells you how much you can substitute for the quantity the recipe calls for : Whole wheat : use up to 50 % in recipes Rye : light : up to 40 % medium : up to 30 % dark/pumpernickle : up to 20 % Cornmeal : up to 10 % Buckwheat : up to 20 % Rice : up to 25-30 % Nut : up to 25-30 % Soy : up to 25 % Spelt : up to 100 % ; then either decrease water by 25 % or increase flour by 25 % Oat : up to 25-30 % The reason that different types of flours substitute at different ratios is primarily due to gluten content . Breads ( both quick and yeast ) made with alternative flours , especially non-wheat flours , will be heavier , denser , and less elastic ; the substitution ratios above are meant to provide a nice balance between the nutritional and flavor advantages of the alternative flours with the texture qualities of all-purpose flour . For more information about the specific properties of each type of flour listed here , see the section called " The Basics of Flour " in How to Cook Everything ( p. 835-838 in the 10th Anniversary ed . ) Note : These substitutions are specifically for breads , where you want a sturdy , elastic structure . Low-protein or low-gluten flours may substitute at different ratios in other types of baked goods like desserts where you want a finer , more tender crumb . But I did n't get into that since the question was specifically about bread .
Once my starter was established ( started with organic whole wheat flour ) I 've been feeding it with unbleached AP flour ( King Arthur ) and that 's worked fine . I do this simply because it 's the flour I buy in large quantities to stock my pantry , and so it 's generally the cheapest flour I have on hand . If you want to " switch over " to a different flour you can always scoop out a bit of starter a couple days before you bake , and feed it with the different flour . Start with a small amount so you do n't have to throw any away ; just double the volume with each feeding . I do n't usually bother , though .
It all revolves around gluten and gluten chains . Cake flour is low protein , and bread flour is high protein , and everything else lies somewhere between . Individual brands have different levels of protein depending on their formulation . That protein , when combined with water , is what makes your stretchy gluten chains , and those are the difference between soft crumbly cake and a french baguette that could serve as a weapon in a pinch . As with many chemical reactions in cooking , however , you can interfere with the " natural " reactions by means of some clever chemistry . Cornstarch works very simply ... Corn just does n't have any gluten , so you 're just " watering down " the gluten content of your flour . Acid retards gluten formation . Water is critical for gluten formation , unless you use a whole lot of it , in which case it weakens it ( a wetter dough will make for a less gluteny final product ) . Mixing makes more gluten ( helps the little proteins make friends with each other ) , so mix MORE for more gluten , and less for less . But fat is your friend . Fat waterproofs your flour , and keeps gluten from forming . Long story short , pick a method you 're comfortable with , and stick to it . If you 're used to using AP flour , you 're going to have some headscratching moments when the cake flour does n't behave the way you expect it to . On the other hand , cake flour will be more forgiving if you overmix .
To summarize the <URL> and provide a framework for answering : ' Gluten is responsible for elasticity of dough , which is perceived as chewiness ' , ' The " rising " in baked goods is essentially just stretching of the gluten network ' , ' Gluten is also exceptionally good at both absorbing and retaining moisture ' Dough 's rising is catalyzed by the yeast eating sugar and giving off gas , the gas becomes suspended in the gluten network which has body from absorbed moisture and is restrained and stregthened by the salt . The end . In the absence of gluten , there is no network for the gas to lift . However , when you add xanthum or guar gum , their qualities as hydrocolloids <URL> . <URL> , gelatin also produces flex and supports a smoother texture ( common complaints about gluten-free breads refer to their grainy texture ) . <URL> from the gluten free dough you 'll get a sopping wet mess that does nothing ; using flax and chia seed will pull it back into shape . Both seeds , when milled will gel andprovide the meringue-type ( though not as effective or durable ) effect . <URL> , hence it 's addition to the King Arthur 's gluten free flour mix . ' When baking without gluten , you will have to be very precise about all of your measurements ' , as gluten is more forgiving due to its slow-acting nature Yep . In gluten-free baking one must substitute precision for not precision . Over kneading can be fatal especially in recipes with flax and chia . ' Its coagulation action is actually very similar to that of egg whites ... gluten is basically doing the same thing inside of whatever you 're baking ' Gluten allows you to replicates the function of eggs in some use cases . Flax and chia eggs as well as Ener-G egg replacer are common vegan replacements to eggs , but as this question is simply about gluten-free baking the answer is to just use an egg ; some recipes call for one , some do n't . However , there is no likely use case where the functionality of an egg being replicated by gluten would preclude using an egg . ' Finally , it provides nutritive protein when eaten . Wheat gluten is about 75 % protein ' : Yep . Get protein somewhere else . There are 2 grams of protein in a slice of white bread , have an ounce of black beans . ' In short : Gluten does a lot of things . Keep in mind when doing gluten-free baking that a lot of the substitutes only replicate one or two of the effects . ' : The combination of multiple agents is generally necessary to provide the same functions . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the bread flour alone contains a super-fine flour , potato starch and tapioca starch . The recipe calls for xanthum gum and an egg in addition to the tapioca and potato starches . There you already have four ingredients doing the work of the gluten .
That is absolutely fine . 00 flour is super-overpriced here , so much so that it is hardly ever used . Semolina is often used on the pizza peel , but really not all that often in the dough itself . There are more recipes for pizza dough than probably anything else on the internet . Some use all-purpose flour , some use bread flour , and some use no wheat at all . You can get away anything with some experimentation . <URL> has some of the best instruction around on everything pizza . You do n't say where you are from , but know that " all-purpose " flour has a different meaning to some people in India , and will behave differently than the medium-gluten wheat flour that is " all-purpose " to most of us . That does n't mean you ca n't use <URL> ( what is sold in much of India as " all-purpose " flour ) , just that it will behave differently . There is no safety issue at all to mixing flour types . Assuming that the flours are safe individually , they will be safe combined .
I went into some detail with this in my answer to <URL> To summarize my points there and add some more ( simplified ) detail on the chemistry : Gluten is responsible for <URL> of dough , which is perceived as chewiness . The difference between bread , quickbread ( muffins/scones ) , and cake is largely due to the difference in gluten formation , with cake having the lowest amount and bread having the highest . It does not directly cause rising - the leavening agent ( yeast , baking powder , etc. ) is responsible for that . What it does do is form a protein network by <URL> , which not only results in the elasticity above but also traps gas and prevents it from escaping during the baking process . The " rising " in baked goods is essentially just stretching of the gluten network . This is why <URL> such as xanthan and guar gum can mimic some of the effects in gluten-free recipes ; although the mechanism is completely different - in essence , they 're creating a very thin gel . Gluten is also exceptionally good at both absorbing and retaining moisture ; it can absorb up to 150 % ( 1.5 times its own weight ) in water . One thing you 'll notice about typical wheat products vs. their gluten-free equivalents is that latter do n't last too long and have to be frozen or consumed quickly . Part of this is due to preservatives in commercial baked goods , but much of it is also simply due to the gluten retarding moisture loss . You can think of it as a kind of natural preservative . It 's activated by water and heat and is ( relatively ) slow-acting , which gives it a high tolerance with respect to time and temperature . This is why many people will tell you that bread is " forgiving " while cake and other low-gluten/gluten-free products are not . When baking without gluten , you will have to be very precise about all of your measurements . Its coagulation action is actually very similar to that of egg whites , and pure gluten ( AKA vital wheat gluten ) is sometimes actually used as a replacement for egg whites . A meringue is just heavily aerated egg whites and specifically protein ; gluten is basically doing the same thing inside of whatever you 're baking . Finally , it provides nutritive protein when eaten . Wheat gluten is about 75 % protein and all-purpose flour is about 10 % gluten . That means 7.5 % of the flour you consume is actually protein . Of course that 's nowhere near what you get from meat , but it 's still a significant contribution to one 's diet . In short : Gluten does a lot of things . Keep in mind when doing gluten-free baking that a lot of the substitutes only replicate one or two of the effects .
How much flavor the flour adds will depend largely on how long it fries with the veggies . The longer it fries the nuttier it will taste - until it starts to burn of course . If it does n't cook for long enough ( it does n't take long ) it will taste raw which is not pleasant . You should cook your veggies until they are done and then add your flour and cook just until it starts to smell nutty . I assume this is similar to what you do with your goulash . Overall - I think that the flavor of even a fairly dark roux would work well with an onion and carrot soup . You could even use this to salvage your already watery soup by making a roux separately and wisking it in .
This article , from the <URL> , indicates : Garbanzo bean flour ( a.k.a. gram flour , chana flour , besan , chickpea , or cici flour ) should be a pantry staple . Unlike other bean flours , garbanzo bean flour does not have to be combined with other flours ( although you can do it if you wish ) . Garbanzo flour is high in protein and gives a slightly " beany " flavor to baked goods . However , they are not focused on food issues , and may not be the most reliable source . According to <URL> , you can use chickpea flour as a flour substitute , but they recommend no more than 75 % replacement ( garbanzo bean is another name for chickpea ) : Garbanzo bean flour - I know this gluten free flour does n't sound appetizing , but it is delicious , healthy and is a wonderful primary gluten free flour that you can use up to 75 % in a recipe . And ... ... ... ... . . NO , I know what you are thinking ... ... ... it does n't taste like beans ! ( I thought the same thing ! ) Again , not the same as a university extension center , but at least a practicing individual who tries these kinds of things . Given that cookies are made from a structure of starch rather than gluten , the lack of glutens from wheat flour should not be an issue . However , chickpea flour also contains less starch One brand of garbanzo bean flour indicated that it had 18 grams of carbohydrates per 30 grams of product on its nutritional information ; that same brand 's pastry flour ( a wheat flour ) had 27 grams of per 34 g of product . As you can see , chickpea flour has significantly less available carbohydrates ( mostly starch , some sugars ) to form the structure of the baked goods . This will change the texture and structure development . In general , gluten free baking experts recommend using a mix of flours to substitute for wheat flour , depending on how it is being used , in order to get the best possible outcome . If your goal is not to be gluten free , only substituting for 50 % of the recipe amount may provide good compromise on the outcome . Bottom line , in a cookie , you would expect when substituting 100 % chickpea flour for wheat flour : Different texture , due to less starch and more protein . My best guess is that it will be a little more fragile , due to less starch structure , but I have never tried this . Different flavor , due to the fact that beans taste different than grains Update after the question was edited to talk about the effect of leavening : In a cookie , the structure of the final product is based on gelatinized starches . With the reduced quantity of starch in the chickpea flour compared to wheat flour , there is simply less of a starch network present . This may reduce the capacity of the cookie to retain the gas generated by the baking powder or baking soda , and thus a flatter , less airy product .
In all the recipes I 've followed with a cup measurement ( volume ) of flour , it is unsifted . From what I 've read , if a recipe calls for sifted flour there 's two ways to do it : If it calls for " sifted flour " you sift the flour first , then measure it . If it calls for " flour , sifted " you measure first , then sift it .
The only difference between regular whole wheat flour and white whole wheat flour is the variety of wheat from which it is ground . Regular whole wheat flour is ground from red wheat while white whole wheat is from a lighter pigmented wheat and thus the lighter color . In both cases the germ is still intact and thus as Jonathan Campbell stated , it will go rancid more quickly than white flour . Keep it in a cool dark place and use up quickly if you ca n't refrigerate or freeze it . When you keep it in the refrigerator or freezer and plan to use it for yeast breads , remember to allow it to warm to room temperature before using for best results with your yeast .
Put the regular ( refined white ) sugar and molasses ( about 2 tablespoons per cup of sugar ) in a food processor and give it a spin . Use more or less molasses as needed to get the color and consistency that you want .
Whole wheat flour goes rancid . There is a lot of fat in wheat germ and when it oxidizes the flour becomes very bitter and has a very noticeable , unpleasant scent . First of all - if you use bleached white flour there is little to worry about . Bleached flour has had much of the wheat removed to give it a longer shelf life . At the expense of flavor and nutrition of course . Keeping whole wheat flour out of light , sealed from oxygen , and cold will keep it from going rancid . Any one of those will extend the life of the flour - putting it in the freezer sealed from air will keep it good indefinitely . In the cupboard I will start noticing off flavors in my fresh ground flour in a couple weeks . In the freezer I have gone as much as a year with no discernible degradation . You will notice if it has gone bad because it will smell and taste bad . This rancidity is n't dangerous so if the flour smells and tastes fine then it is .
Here I 'm assuming that you mean macaroons as in the French patisserie <URL> rather than the simpler coconut or almond based <URL> . In any case almond meal and almond flour are essentially the same thing , both are almonds ground into a fine ( or not so much in your case ) ' flour ' or ' powder ' . <URL> , almond flour is made from ' blanched ' ( almonds which have had their skin removed ) almonds whereas almond meal can be made from either almonds with their skins on ( whole ) or ' blanched ' . I have , however , always found them to be used interchangeably . If your problem is graininess , then you could either sieve the ground almonds before using or blitz/grind them finer in a food processor until the desired consistency is reached , however if you 're grinding them in a food processor make sure you do it in small batches or if you 're making macarons blitz them with the icing sugar ( for the tant pour tant ) to avoid making <URL> . Personally , I would do both to achieve a fine powder .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
If you punch down a no-knead loaf , on average , you 'll get a more consistent crumb and fewer large holes in the finished loaf .
If you are freezing the tortillas yourself and do n't mind putting in a little extra work in the beginning to get more convenience later , I would separate the tortillas with waxed paper ( actually I use the paper sheets that are waxed on one side , intended for bakeries ) . What this buys you is the ability to pull out one or two tortillas as you need them . They will defrost just fine in the pan that you are going to warm/brown them in anyway . If you customarily run through a dozen tortillas , then you probably do n't want to bother . But if that is the case then you probably are n't freezing your tortillas in the first place .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
True free range eggs are noticeably different in terms of yolk colour ( a much deeper yellow ) and taste . Free range chickens are allowed to supplement their diets with naturally found grubs , inscets etc. . You might find this of interest : <URL>
Egg-whites in a carton are usually pasteurized . Pasteurized eggs are not great for meringue because the heat from the pasteurization process negatively affects the proteins in the whites that make for good meringue . With a lot of whipping ( and more cream of tartar or other stabilizers ) pasteurized egg whites ( whether from pasteurized eggs or from cartons ) can make meringue though it most likely wo n't be as stiff as those from non-pasteurized eggs . I would suggest getting regular eggs and trying to use the left-over yolks for something like creme brulee .
Golden syrup is indeed gluten free , as neither sugar cane or beet contains gluten . In fact , beet fibre is used in many gluten-free products . See the Tate &amp; Lyle site for more information : <URL>
Harms ? Meh , that 's silliness . You can make your own fizzy water if you 're so inclined . <URL> . If you really do n't want fizzy , then just substitute still water in any of the recipes in a search for <URL> . Choose recipes that use soda water , club soda or seltzer water , not ginger ale . Ginger ale adds flavor , you want recipes that stand without that flavor . EDIT : Just to be clear ; soda water , club soda or seltzer water are all just water , injected with carbon dioxide to make bubbles ( carbonation ) . So by substituting regular water for soda water , club soda or seltzer water all you 're losing is the " fizzy " . ( Club soda may have a tiny amount of something like baking soda to neutralize the decrease in PH caused by the carbonation , <URL> gets further into it , but for all practical purposes , they are all just bubble water . )
Flour or starch binds moisture in the cheesecake . If you use it or not depends on your recipe , the total amount of liquid and the other binding ingredients like eggs . Using flour can leave an aftertaste , especially if not fully cooked . I recommend using the more neutral starch ( corn starch , potato starch ) instead . As a rule of thumb , adding starch or flour can make the cheesecake denser and more solid , leaving it out makes for a softer mouthfeel . Disclaimer : I am not saying that you can leave it always out , lest you come back and blame me if your cheesecake does n't set properly . If you have a recipe that seems quite solid , you could experiment with less or no flour next time , likewise a recipe that is too runny can benefit from a tablespoon or two of starch .
Wheat and ( other grains ) contains the two protein classes <URL> and <URL> , which together can form the composite protein <URL> . This process requires water and is influenced by a ) the amount of water available and b ) the mechanical process of kneading . Thus a strong gluten network ( as desired in bread baking ) is acchieved by either dilligent kneading wet flour for a certain time ( - > <URL> ) or a higher hydration ( = wetter ) dough and longer resting times , aided by the - > <URL> technique . On the other side of the spectrum are flaky and crumbly goods like shortbread , pie crust and bisquits - here you try to avoid excess gluten formation . There are two ways to do this , usually employed both : Adding fat to the dry ingredients before adding any liquid . The fat ( butter , oil , lard ... ) " protects " the flour from " getting wet " once liquid is added , thus inhibiting gluten formation . Using only a limited amount of liquid and no kneading and gentle handling of the dough after the addition . So to answer your question : There is only very little water in your butter which could trigger the development of gluten . Therefore you can " rub " your butter/shortening / ... in without much influence on gluten formation . Once you add liquid ( egg , ice water , milk , depending in your recipe ) , you need to be careful .
Both messes up the ratio , as you said , so you should n't use anything during kneading . You only need to use a little bit of something during shaping . With some pastries , the shaping is extensive and you get lots of the smoother worked into the dough ; this is expected and desired ( e.g. in strudel sheets ) . Properly kneaded bread dough does not stick to anything , even if it started out very wet . So , if it sticks at the beginning , just continue kneading until it stops ( I knead it between my hands then , not on a surface ) . When it is ready , it will not only stop sticking to your hands , but also pull the smear of the hand surfaces into itself , coming clean off them so you can work with it . ( You will still have to clean your hands afterwards from gunk between the fingers and on the back of your hands ) . When your dough is kneaded through , you want to form a good surface for the rising period . You can use flour , oil or water ; you 'll use so little that it does n't really matter much . Just spread a thin film on your surface , shape the boule and put it into the rising bowl . For the final rise , you want it to keep its shape when it 's put into the oven . So , when you are giving it its final shape , you can use either flour or a starch to prevent it from sticking to whatever it is rising on . I knew somebody who swore by rice flour as producing the least stickiness , but use plain wheat flour myself . You can even lay it on a bed of flour ; it is not getting pressed into it , so it wo n't absorb it and get hard . But you will have a layer of either raw or burned flour on the prepared bread . An exception would be very oil-rich breads ( at least half as much butter as flour ) . They do better when the final shaping is done in oil too . For pastries and cookies , it depends on the type of dough . If it is supposed to be a hard dough , use flour . The strudel mentioned above is made in flour . If it is supposed to be a soft or tender dough , you can try shaping without any smoothening ( for example many cookies will flow into a smooth shape during baking even if put onto the sheet as an unsightly pinched ball ) . Ugly sticky pastry doughs like pie crust can be rolled into submission if you roll them between two smooth silicone mats , but you ca n't get them very thin that way . If you need them at less than 4 mm , use flour , best in combination with the silicone . Plastic wraps also works , but you might have to use two pieces per surface when the crust gets wide . If you have a dough which really feels half-liquid in your hands , shape with flour . Corriher 's very light southern biscuits from Cookwise are a good example for such a dough .
I 'm a coeliac from Australia and so my tips come from my experience here , but they should hopefully be useful regardless . The first thing I suggest is joining your local society which can be invaluable in terms of support , information and even training . The training covers for example how to read ingredient lists to determine whether something is gluten free by ingredient . As a general rule you need to avoid products containing [ wheat , barley , rye , malts and triticale ] [ 1 ] . There are a few exceptions such as glucose syrup , caramel colour and dextrose derived from wheat where the ingredients are so highly processed that they contain no detectable [ gluten ] [ 2 ] . Cross contamination and hidden sources of gluten can make it hard to ensure a gluten free diet . In my experience the hardest replacements are the bread based ones . They generally do not come close to the texture and taste of traditional breads . Baking your own bread may be the best option using gluten free bread mixes . Eating out can become a bit of chore because many restaurants use gluten containing products such as sauces and fillers . I recommend contacting the restaurant beforehand . The following products are some of the better gluten free alternatives I 've found ( could n't post links because I do n't have enough rep ) : Zehnder Bread San Remo Pasta BuonTempo Pasta Schar Products Neumarkter Lammsbräu beer References : [ 1 ] <URL> [ 2 ] <URL>
The simple answer to your question is the kind of starch they use . Most use cornstarch or tapioca starch , neither of which contain gluten , so most powdered sugar should n't contain gluten . If the type of starch is n't listed , do n't buy that product . For absolutely no gluten , it gets a bit more complicated . A Google search for " Gluten Free Powdered Sugar " only yielded a few brands that make a " gluten-free " claim . Since most brands of powdered sugar do n't contain any ingredients that would normally contain gluten , look for the line " This product is processed in a facility that also processes wheat " . Choose a powdered sugar that lists the starch used as cornstarch , tapioca starch or other non-gluten starch and that does n't have that line on the label . Of course I can only speak to US labeling , other countries may be different . One brand , Domino Sugar , stood out to really stand by their claim of gluten free . <URL> ( C&amp;H is Domino , BTW ) . I happen to have some C&amp;H powdered sugar , so I looked at the label . There is no " Gluten-Free " claim on the label , but the ingredients listed are only sugar and corntarch , and there is no " this product is processed in a facility ... " warning . Walmart brand also pops up on the " Gluten Free Powdered Sugar " search , they say " Naturally gluten-free food " . The FDA requires that claim not be misleading , so if they do use equipment to process the sugar that also processes gluten-containing ingredients , the sugar can not contain more that 20 ppm gluten . There is one way to know for sure about any ingredient you use , or to even to check your final dish . Elisa Technologies , a very well respected name in medical laboratory testing , has put out home test strips sensitive to 10 ppm , that 's half the concentration of gluten the FDA allows for a product to be certified " gluten-free " . If a product tested contains less than 20 ppm gluten the US , Canada and the European Union allow that product to use " Gluten Free " on the label . <URL> At over $ 10 a strip , you 'd want to use them judiciously , but if I or someone I loved had serious health issues that did not allow gluten , I 'd get these strips . <URL>
Cakes are where sifting can make a significant difference . See <URL> book , she goes into it in detail .
Of course you can make gyoza with raw meat -- that would be the traditional method . You can find countless recipes , including raw meat ones , simply by googling " <URL> " . While perhaps less common , you can also google " <URL> " to find many options using chicken such as <URL> , although there are some false hits mixed in that are not chicken based . Gyoza ( which are the Japanese version of pot stickers ) are normally not much larger than bite sized . This small size will help ensure that they are cooked through during the hybrid frying/steaming method that gives them their crispy bottoms , which is normally similar to : Fry the dumplings , flat side down , until the bottoms begin to be brown . Add water to the pan , and cover , creating a makeshift steaming environment to cook the dumpling through . Allow the water to evaporate and the bottoms to re-crisp . While it is is fairly difficult to take the internal temperature of a single dumpling ( you probably can if you have a very high quality instant-read thermometer with a short probe distance , like a Thermapen ) , you can still judge their doneness indirectly by squeezing . They will be quite firm . The small size ( even very big Chinese style pot stickers tend not to be more than an inch/couple cm wide , although they may be longer ) helps make sure they can cook through very quickly ; steaming is also a very effective method at transferring heat into the target food . So yes , making gyoza with raw meat , done with some care , is safe .
end question
start question
Sautéing vs Frying vs Caramelizing -- what 's the difference ?
I 've never really considered there to be a real difference between sautéing and frying . They both mean to cook in a hot pan with a little bit of fat . However there is n't a lot of consistency online . It does n't look like there 's any sort of definitive answer here . Some points of view : <URL> , although frying might involve slightly more oil . The terms are essentially interchangeable . This is the top hit on a google search " sauteing frying " ( although this question is on the first page ! ) . <URL> , sautéing involves jumping the food while frying involves a little more oil and less flipping or stiring of the food . Here 's <URL> for this definition . This definition makes a delineation between pan frying and shallow frying . <URL> and involves partially submerging the food in oil . Food is normally breaded first . There 's no distinction between frying and shallow frying . This is Martha Stewart 's definition . As you can see , it 's really all over the map , and that was just from the first page of the google results . I think we 're getting in to issues with language changing beneath us . However , I think the safest bet is probably that sautéing involves a lot of stirring , frying does n't , and I should consider refining my own definitions . Caramelizing ( which fortunately does n't have any of the same confusion ) is a process that happens during cooking when sugar oxidizes . There are many different ways that you can achieve this effect . One of the ways is to sauté or fry ( depending on your definition ) something until the water sweats out and the remaining sugar heats up . So the answer is that you are caramelizing the onions by sautéing ( or maybe frying ) them .
If you use frozen you will not have the option of having a thick cheese soup with more crisp broccoli ; i.e. if you were considering adding the broccoli toward the end after blanching it for a more toothsome floret , this would only be fruitful with fresh . I am unsure about the blogspot link in Sebiddy 's post , but my experience with frozen broccoli is that it gets the job done but not very well . As a point of logistics , using frozen without first thawing will net you a hearty release of water from the broccoli if you do n't thaw first and may cause your mornay some heart-ache if timed poorly .
Soy sauce , sake or mirin and sugar are the usual ingredients in a teriyaki sauce . The rice wines in particular are vital for an authentic teriyaki flavour . So the question is somewhat moot : onions are n't usually found in teriyaki sauce anyway . The onions naturally add flavour to your marinade : if you like it , leave them in , if you do n't , take them out . The onions wo n't have any major chemical effect on the marination process . Personally I would ditch the olive oil , replace it with toasted sesame oil and add garlic and ginger for a more rounded and authentically flavoured East Asian marinade .
If I were to guess , it would be that the ones that call for a lively simmer are sauces , soups , or other thicker liquids . The lively simmer in that case would refer something close to a light boil . For instance , tomato sauce simmers even when you have it on low , but if you were to cut the temperature up to a medium low , it would bubble much more actively and to me would be considered a lively simmer .
It 's really going to be a trade off between the flavor defects , but it also depends on the brewing method , and if it 's drip or espresso . For us , with drip , stale coffee tastes worse than badly ground coffee . We can always tell if coffee has been freshly ground or not , because the characteristics and flavor profile change the longer it 's been ground . Having a crappy grinder will affect the flavor as well , with some grounds being over extracted and under extracted . At this point the quality of the coffee would n't even matter . So , it really depends on what you 'd prefer to sacrifice . For me ? In this situation , I 'd probably just drink tea .
I 've never done this , but what about filling the bowl with water , lowering the spinning basket into it so the lettuce shreds lift off , then dumping it out ?
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
My foolproof method is as follows : Weigh out the desired amount of rice - I use 2-3oz per person - and put it in a saucepan . Wash the rice well by filling the pan with cold water , tipping it out , and repeating about 10 times . The more you wash the less the rice sticks together . Put enough water in the pan to cover the rice by about 5-8mm . Leave to soak for 25 minutes until the rice grains have turned opaque white . Put the saucepan over a high heat , uncovered , and bring to a boil . Boil until the water has evaporated and the surface of the rice is dotted with small holes . Turn off the heat . Cover tightly : if the lid is n't a tight fit , place a piece of foil on the pan , then put the lid on . Steam for at least 15 minutes . The beauty of this method is that it does n't matter how long you steam the rice for once it 's past the 15 minute minimum - in fact , the more it steams the better it is , especially if you have added spices or flavourings to the water .
If you just need the pulp ( for pie , ice cream , jam , etc. . . ) then cook them down and run them through a food strainer . If you need them raw , or halved/skins on , then find a good audiobook ...
I 've never really considered there to be a real difference between sautéing and frying . They both mean to cook in a hot pan with a little bit of fat . However there is n't a lot of consistency online . It does n't look like there 's any sort of definitive answer here . Some points of view : <URL> , although frying might involve slightly more oil . The terms are essentially interchangeable . This is the top hit on a google search " sauteing frying " ( although this question is on the first page ! ) . <URL> , sautéing involves jumping the food while frying involves a little more oil and less flipping or stiring of the food . Here 's <URL> for this definition . This definition makes a delineation between pan frying and shallow frying . <URL> and involves partially submerging the food in oil . Food is normally breaded first . There 's no distinction between frying and shallow frying . This is Martha Stewart 's definition . As you can see , it 's really all over the map , and that was just from the first page of the google results . I think we 're getting in to issues with language changing beneath us . However , I think the safest bet is probably that sautéing involves a lot of stirring , frying does n't , and I should consider refining my own definitions . Caramelizing ( which fortunately does n't have any of the same confusion ) is a process that happens during cooking when sugar oxidizes . There are many different ways that you can achieve this effect . One of the ways is to sauté or fry ( depending on your definition ) something until the water sweats out and the remaining sugar heats up . So the answer is that you are caramelizing the onions by sautéing ( or maybe frying ) them .
There is considerable overlap between cupcakes and muffins . Method From a technical point of view , muffins are made by the muffin method , making them small quickbreads . In the muffin method , the wet ingredients are combined in one bowl ; and the dry ingredients are combined in another bowl . Then the two are quickly incorporated together with minimal mixing to avoid gluten development . This gives muffins a somewhat coarse crumb . Cupcakes are small cakes , and are made by one of the traditional cake methods such as the creaming method , the reverse creaming method , the genoise method , the chiffon method , and so on . They tend to have a finer crumb than muffins . Contrast While no single criterion distinguishes a muffin from a cupcake if you do not adopt the technical definition above , the following trends exist : Cupcakes tend to be sweeter than muffins ; there are savory muffins such as cornbread Cupcakes are often iced or frosted , whereas muffins tend to have no topping , or a simple crumb topping Cupcakes usually have a head or top no larger than the body of the cupcake ; muffins are often encouraged to overflow their baking cup , so that their top is larger in diameter , giving them somewhat of a mushroom shape Cupcakes are almost always , well , cupcake shaped ; muffins can be made as just muffin tops Cupcakes are almost never crispy or crunchy ; muffins are often encouraged to brown and develop texture , especially on the tops
There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice : Day Old <URL> ( Make it the day before , let it cool , place it in the fridge ) This I 'd say is absolutely , the main thing . The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice . There will be too much moisture . HEAT ! Your <URL> needs to be hot . You want everything to cook quickly . Cook stuff separately . This is a follow-up from 2 . You want it all to cook very quickly , a crowded pan will hinder that . Cook Meat to 80 % , take it out , cook the other stuff , add the meat back in . Do n't touch it . Unless you have a blazing professional burner , your food needs time against the wok . Put it in , leave it for a bit , mix it some more . Fish Sauce &amp; Chinese Sausage They add great flavour . If it all seems complicated , it really is n't . Use day old rice &amp; give it lots of heat . Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations : <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Rasa Malaysia
Short of the danger of splashing hot liquid on you , or the standard immersion blender dangers of having it slip and hit you , there 's no additional risk with using immersion blenders on hot mixtures . Making hot soups creamy is pretty much exactly what they are designed for .
Martha 's Vinyard Magazine suggests that the diamater of the stalks is not directly related to their age as one might suspect : Some might assume thinner spears are younger and therefore more tender . The diameter , however , has more to do with the age of the plant itself and the particular asparagus variety . They go on to cite Cook 's Illustrated , saying : [ T ] hin and thick spears as equally sweet , nutty , and grassy , but ... thicker spears have a slightly better , more tender texture . The reason is that the fiber is somewhat more concentrated in thinner spears . You can peel asparagus if you choose to . Personally , I peel the base of thicker stalks . Mark Bittman recommends peeling from just under the flowers to the base of the stalk on the thicker stalks . Thinner stalks may be easier to saute or grill , and thicker ones more suited to steaming , poaching , and so on , but this is more related to the time it takes them to cook through . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
In a cup with water . You place them straight up in a small cup with a little water . Just like you would if you were storing flowers . You 'll want to store this in your chill chest on the top most rack ; to avoid any cross contamination from other possible food products ( chicken , etc ) . You may want to leave the rubber band on to allow it to stay tidy . If you must you can cover your asparagus cup with a zip lock bag on top . With this method we usually can store asparagus for 5-7 days . If you must keep them longer it maybe better to just freeze them in an air tight bag . after they 're dried out .
To store fats , you should always use glass as plastics react to fats by absorbing some and perhaps discoloring or transferring flavors to your fat . Depending on use , I prefer to work with cold fat at the start as it has a much broader possible use and I do n't like to wait when I make biscuits , so I keep mine in the fridge . However , you gain very little extra life out of keeping it in the fridge and if you do n't keep it in a sealed container you run a very real risk of flavor transference there to . If you do n't make pastry dough or other such , your counter top is a perfectly acceptable place to store , as long as you use it up before it goes rancid . One thing to keep in mind is that fats can sometimes have very different shelf lives , so make sure you taste or smell before use , regardless of storage method .
A paper filter is a true " filter " in that it basically only allows liquid to pass through . This means that you will have no sediment in your coffee , if that is a concern to you . Paper filters are absorbent though , so some of the flavor compounds of the coffee will be absorbed into the paper , and some other compounds as well ( a chemical in coffee that causes a rise in cholesterol is absorbed by the paper ) . The paper can also lead to a papery flavor in your coffee . Metal filters only filter out particulates of a certain size , so you will frequently end up with a layer of " sludge " at the bottom of your pot . Metal filters should be non-reactive though , so they will not add a flavor to your coffee and will allow everything extracted from your coffee to pass through . If cholesterol is n't a concern , I 'd say try both and see which you like better . <URL> <URL>
Differences are mainly a question of origin . Speck comes from Tyrol ( it actually means " bacon " in german , which is misleading ) and is prepared with a specific blend of spices , usually including juniper , Jamon Serrano from Spain ( it means " mountain ham " in spanish ) and is a dry-cured ham , and prosciutto just means " ham " in italian . There are plenty of differences in flavor , consistency and aspect , depending on the difference of preparation : ripening , spices and herbs and so on .
You 've answered your own question , it 's size and shape . You could buy a roast and slice it into chops and you 'd get the same thing as if the butcher does it . That 's if they are both pork sirloin , sometimes there can be confusion between sirloin and tenderloin , which are not the same thing .
<URL> , at its most basic , is egg yolk and oil , with a little vinegar , whipped into an emulsion . <URL> starts with oil and garlic , and sometimes vinegar or lemon . Some versions ( French-Provençal , apparently ) add egg yolk for an end result close to mayonnaise , but the yolk is not required . <URL> is a cooked sauce made from egg yolk and butter , sometimes flavored with lemon and pepper . I think it must have a much larger ratio of egg yolk to other ingredients in it , since it remains brightly yellow and thick . <URL> is a variation of hollandaise , which uses white wine vinegar to emulsify the egg yolks and butter , and flavors the resulting sauce with shallot , chervil , and tarragon . Like an aioli , it is not defined by the emulsion but by the flavoring agents . Adding terragon and capers , or tarragon and shallots , to a hollandaise ( or other egg-yolk emulsion sauce ) will produce a ' faux-bearnaise ' . The garlic defines the aioli , which is also the only one that can be made without egg yolk . The choice of butter rather than oil makes a hollandaise , and it is cooked as a sauce to set the yolks ( which neither of the others require ) . The yolk and oil combination itself is the central concept of mayonnaise , while it can be flavored , it does n't have to be . The sauces are quite similar , though , and an emulsion of egg yolk with seasonings might be called by any name . The difference between a garlic mayo and a french-style aioli are likely to be pretty subtle . Likewise , a mayo flavored with lemon and pepper will be hard to distinguish from a hollandaise which uses oil - although hollandaise is usually cooked to set it , so the texture may be different . And a aioli with butter will be very similar to a hollandaise with garlic . Adding tarragon and shallot to any of them is likely to produce a bearnaise type sauce . All three recipes are very loose and broadly defined , since they can be tweaked a lot depending on preferences - so it makes it hard to pin down other factors like ingredient ratios that might distinguish the recipes . The sauces that add flavorings or substitute ingredients will tend to be named one or the other based more on recipe origin , familiarity , and marketing rather than any clearly defined difference .
It 's probably OK but there are a lot of variables here so from where I sit , it 's difficult to be certain . Cooking will kill most bacteria . If the soup went from the pot , hot , to the container and capped immediately , the risk of airborne bacteria getting in is reduced . It takes more than a couple bacteria to get you sick but when conditions are right , bacteria multiply exponentially in a short period of time . If the container was at 72F , that 's better than if it was at 90F ... as if it was outside in the sun . You can give it a sniff to check if it smells OK . Reheating to a boil will kill most bacteria , but depending on the specific bacteria , not all . What 's more , certain bacteria leave behind toxins that are not easily destroyed . If you have a pressure cooker , that 's the best way to kill whatever bacteria might be in there . You would need to keep it in the cooker for a period of time ... 30 minutes perhaps . Seems like a lot of trouble to go to . Dry bouillon cubes should not have any bacteria ... assuming a clean manufacturing plant . Same goes if you used dehydrated chicken . It 's more likely bacteria got in if fresh uncooked chicken was used . Unwashed hands , contaminated utensils , used hand towels , unclean work area ... all that stuff comes into play . You probably already know about cross contamination . But here 's the thing ? Why risk it ? Salmonella will not likely kill you but your stomach will be churning and you 'll be spending some time in the bathroom . There are other bad actors out there and they are worse than Mr. Sal Minella ... Staphlococcus , E. Coli , Botulinum . My answer is , to be safe , toss it .
Low quality chocolate chips often have additives in them that help them keep shape and shelf life , that 's why they 're not recommended . Callebaut callets are pure 100 % chocolate according to Callebaut . I 'd use them anywhere for bar or chips with great results . They might not come out of the oven looking exactly like a traditional chocolate chip cookie ( for example ) but they should taste fantastic !
According to my local friendly butcher , Gammon is a type of bacon that is specifically from the hind quarters . Bacon is defined as any pork that has been cured through a process of salting , either as a dry-cure or a wet-cure where the meat is either packed in salts or brine respectively . With wet curing , other ingredients can be added to impart other flavours , such as beer or sugars . Typically , rashers are made from the body of the pig with streaky bacon coming from the belly , and back bacon coming from , well , the back ( so the same cut as a pork loin chop ) . Bacon joints are typically made by combining cuts of bacon from the shoulder and collar , whilst the hind quarters are sold as gammon with a premium on price . Traditionally ham referred to cooked gammon , although in modern uses , it is often extended to include other cooked bacon joints , which include moulded meats made from combining cuts together with other additives to help bind them .
This would be what I would call stewing . From the <URL> : " A dish cooked by stewing , especially a mixture of meat or fish and vegetables with stock . " I suppose you could also coin your own , new term call " modified-reduction-stewing . " Oh , wait , that 's mine ! Make up your own ; -- )
Yes , there is no real difference . Be aware that if you one from the hardware store , it should be one where the flame does not fluctuate when you tilt the torch . This usually happens with the very cheap ones . This becomes a big problem when you try to uniformly brown something . Aside from that and maybe " esthetically " I see no reason not to use one from the hardware store .
You can heat clarified butter to a higher temperature for two reasons -- you remove the milk solids , which can burn , and you remove the water , which will boil at 100 ° C and cause spattering . In baking , clarified butter 's lack of water means that it ca n't develop gluten as you would with simple melted butter . It 's actually more similar to other oils than it is to melted butter when baking . In the case of ghee , my understanding is that because it 's from a warm country , part of the reason for making it was as a preservative , as the ghee would have a longer shelf-life ( months ) than standard butter in the local climate .
The pyramid teabag allows for more effective and faster extraction . This is because the tea bag retains its 3 dimensional shape , so there is plenty of space for the tea leaves , and more of their surface area is exposed for extraction . A conventional teabag actually becomes smaller , and there is less space and the tea leaves are pressed onto each other , creating a compressed little ball of tea . I think whoever invented the pyramid teabag had that in mind . I am not suggesting that the world was desperate for it though ;)
I have just looked in the book " Thai Food " ( by David Thompson ) . Both are very similar . The main difference I can see is that there are souring agents in the red curry ( fish sauce and shrimp paste ) . These are absent in the panaeng which has peanuts as a major ingredient in the paste ( and nutmeg ) . The panaeng is also usually made with beef which is simmered in count milk until tender .
No , it wo n't be different . It is , however , a bit harder . The issues are mainly : It 's harder to get the heat away from the food . So you end up cooking with some direct heat . This can be avoided by using a small amount of well soaked , large wood chunks and get them smoking with some normal charcoal . You should also use indirect heat by stacking the chunks on one side of the grill . If you use wood chips , this wo n't work . They burn too fast and need too much of an ignition source . Heat insulation is n't very good . The walls are thin and you have to remove the whole lid to tend your food . The heat dissipation can be a real issue for long low and slow recipes . Smokers either tend to be well insulated ( brick or ceramic ) or have small doors so you can access your food from the side . Adding fuel can be a pain . It 's made easier if you have a grill surface that is hinged . If you do n't , I 'd suggest getting one if you are seriously considering smoking . It makes adding fuel much easier . Of course , adding fuel causes the above heat dissipation issues , so add fuel as infrequently as possible . That said , I smoked for years on a Webber grill , and it worked just fine . I did , however , upgrade to a <URL> at the first available opportunity . The results are more consistent and the process is much easier . But you 'll be fine getting started with the webber .
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
The proteins in a fresh egg are too viscous , even when thoroughly beaten , to wash a baked good . The water thins the proteins so you get a nice glaze instead of a layer of scrambled egg . Older eggs have sometimes degraded enough that they do n't need the water but it is easier to always add water than to make a subjective judgement on the state of your egg proteins .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
It is not only sane , it is safer than any other packaging you can make . At least here in Germany , meat from the supermarket is not just wrapped in celophane , the celophane is glued to the tray . The packaging is air-proof . And the air inside the packaging is not normal air , it is a mostly sterile atmosphere with a composition different from normal air , which hampers bacterial growth ( I think it has lowered oxygen content , but I 'm not absolutely sure on that detail ) . This means that 1 . no bacterial contamination is possible after the meat has left the packaging plant , and 2 . the bacteria already present in the meat when it was packed grow slower than normal . So if this is your type of package , do yourself a favor and leave the meat in it . I have n't frozen such packages , so I do n't know how big a problem they have with freezer burn . But it may become a problem in the long term , as the moisture from the meat will sublimate on the inside of the celophane . If this is not the type of package you get , and you have just plain clingy film wrapped around meat and a styrofoam tray ( I 've seen other products wrapped this way , but not meat ) , there is still no problem to freeze in it . The pad full of meat juices ( this is not blood btw ) is a good feeding place for bacteria , but the meat itself is as least as good as the pad , so you wo n't be reducing the risk if you remove it . By leaving the meat in the original package , you reduce the risk of additional bacterial contamination during transfer . And no other container will offer better food safety . You can still consider a transfer for reasons other than food safety . First , you can portion and/or preshape the ground meat before freezing , and then you 'll have to repackage it . Second , if the package is not tight enough , you risk freezer burn . But if these do n't apply , it is probably best to leave it in the original container - this is convenient , and not dangerous at all .
according to the Ball canning book ( paraphrasing ) ... JAM is made by cooking crushed or chopped fruits with sugar , and is made of one fruit or a combination of fruits , is spreadable , and is firm but will not hold the shape of the jar . JELLY is made from juice strained from fruit , usually prepared in a way to keep it crystal clear , and is gelatinized enough to hold is shape when removed from the jar , yet is still spreadable . PRESERVES are fruit preserved with sugar so it retains its shape , is transparent , shiny , tender and plump . the syrup generally has the consistency of honey , and a true preserve will not hold its shape when spooned from the jar . to add to the confusion , i 'll also add their descriptions of ... CONSERVES , which are jam-like and made of a combination of one or more fruits , nuts and raisins , cooked until it rounds up on the spoon . MARMALADES are a soft jelly containing pieces of fruit and peel evenly suspended in a transparent jelly . similar in structure to jam .
Not a lot , bacon is basically brined and smoked pork ( the process/recipe depends on where you live ) Fat does not actually change in flavour as much as the flesh does when smoked " Rendered fat " is just the fat that has run off when heating meat . It should be pure fat , with all the impurity left behind , or skimmed off Depending on where you live , lard is either just pork fat , or a common word for animal fat In Asian cooking if it specifies pork fat I would use that . Most Schezuan recipes are not smokey flavour based , so it may be noticeable , and appear unusual
Consistent results stem from consistent actions . Bechamel is one of the most basic sauces , so you should take the time to master it . The general proportions for this sauce are : 1 Tbsp butter ( clarified optional ) 1 Tbsp flour 1 cup milk 1/2 tsp salt 1/8 tsp nutmeg The things to make sure you do right : Cook the roux - It should be a nice golden hue ( not brown ) . Scald the milk prior to adding - The milk should be heated to a near boil in a separate pot while you prepare the roux . Cold milk is one of the primary causes of bechamel fail . Add the milk in 1 cup increments . Whisk thoroughly until you see no lumps with each addition of milk . Stir constantly until done .
For my 2 cents , I 've never ever used a parchment lid in recipes that call for it . I think Joe 's explanation of the purported purpose is right , but I just ca n't see it making a whole lot of difference , and I 've never noticed any moisture problems in the dishes I 've made this way . I 'd love to hear from someone who says they can really see a difference having made a dish both ways .
I can not speak to price ; I have n't comparison-shopped with this feature in mind . However , I have used various home gas ranges with either type of broiler . I 'll go ahead and sum it up : tl ; dr : I greatly prefer an in-oven broiler . Here 's why . First , positioning . Broiler drawers are typically located at the very bottom of the range , underneath the actual oven . This means that in order to place food in or take it out , you 've got to bend all the way down to the floor . I hope the ergonomic challenge here is obvious , but I have safety concerns as well . If you have never tried to cook 10 pounds of flank steak in a broiler drawer , then learn from my experience : it 's less than optimal . You will wind up bent over at the waist when pulling your finished steaks , end up tilting your pan and spilling meat juice on the way to the top of the range , and just barely manage to kick the drawer closed before your dog licks the exposed cooking tray . An in-oven broiler presents no additional challenges than you 'd have with regular oven use . Second : flexibility . Broiler drawers often seem to come equipped with an awkwardly-sized pan that 's smaller than the oven itself . Sometimes this has brackets or rails to hold it in place in the center of the drawer . This is a stupid design that 's difficult to clean , sometimes even difficult to remove , and limits your cooking space . The pan also rarely has any ability to move up or down , limiting your vertical space too . With an in-oven broiler , you can adjust the existing racks to get thick items underneath , and control how close your food gets to the heat source ( and therefore how quickly it browns ) . I frequently kick on the broiler at the end of cooking with things like au gratin potatoes , to get a nice brown crust on top at the very end . I could n't fit the pan I use into a broiler drawer , but with the in-oven version I do n't even have to open the door . An in-oven broiler will also accommodate any size pan that will fit in your oven . Remember those flank steaks ? Regarding design , most gas ranges that I 've seen with an in-oven broiler have two separate burners , a main version at the bottom that provides indirect heat to the oven box , and the broiler running along the top with a sort of heat shield to reflect its energy down into the oven . Drawers often seem designed to take advantage of only a single burner at the bottom of the oven , which provides both indirect heat to the oven box and direct heat to the drawer . This is mostly my assumption ; I 'm not an engineer . This design could make drawers marginally cheaper ( again , I have n't checked ) but I think the advantages outweigh any price premium for the extra burner . I 'll be so bold as to say that you will be very pleased with the difference if all you 've ever used is a drawer .
Traditional goulash is a stew/soup , usually using a cheaper cut of meat suited to slow cooking . It usually contains potatoes and other vegetables , as well as noodles . A true stroganoff consists of paprika-dusted fillet steak quickly pan fried with mushrooms and onions in a sour cream and brandy sauce . It is usually served with rice . I understand that in the US stroganoff can also refer to a stew made with similar ingredients as the traditional dish , and is served with noodles . This , coupled with the shared use of paprika , is evidently where the line blurs .
The boiling point of most cooking oils is much higher than their smoke points . The boiling point of olive oil , for example , is around 300 ° C ( 572 ° F ) , which is hotter than the temperature of a pan on a typical residential range/cooktop . With that said , alcohols and esters which make up the flavor and fragrance of the oil will have lower boiling points and will therefore evaporate . That should not significantly alter the nutritional content of the oil . Furthermore , much of the perceived loss of oil is likely due to a combination of absorption of the oil into the items being fried , and also due to splatter . The latter can not be easily quantified due to its connection with the cooking vessel and the technique of the cook .
In my experience , they 're best at concentrating mold spores , and hiding away unsightly loaves . While chic , and quite popular in the days before plastic bags , they 're not much use now . Pretty much the same as the " <URL> "
Cook 's Thesaurus recommends <URL> . As I do n't tend to make fish stock , I 'd probably either use shrimp stock ( take the shells and heads , simmer in water for about an hour ) , or crab stock ( just use the shells , and maybe the smaller legs if you did n't extract the meat from them ) If you can find it , some stores will carry ' seafood bullion ' or ' shrimp bullion ' . As they tend to be salty , I 'd probably only use them at half strength , like the recommendation for substituting chicken stock . In a real pinch , you might be able to use water + fish sauce , but I have no idea what the proportions would be . ( I 'd probably compare sodium levels , and try to match that . So 1400mg/TB vs. 120-280mg / 2oz ... so averages 800mg/cup , so about 1.5 tsp fish sauce + water to replace a cup of clam juice ) .
I 've never been one to keep track of cooking times with meats , since it will vary wildly with meat thickness , burner strength and type , phase of the moon , etc. . Edit : I forgot to answer " how to go about searing " . I sear chicken like I sear beef : hard and fast . The point is to get that <URL> going to add some deliciousness and texture ( not to " seal in flavor " , which is hogwash ) . Pat the chicken dry with paper towels . Put just enough oil in a heavy-bottomed pan to cover the bottom . Put the pan over medium-high heat and get it good and hot - the oil may just start showing wisps of smoke . Lay the chicken in the pan carefully , being sure to start at the edge closest to you and lay it down away from you . This will prevent you from getting splashed with hot oil . Let it cook for 2-4 minutes until you get a nice sear on it . Flip , ( the chicken , not you ) again being careful to flip away from you . Now if the breast is thin enough ( <URL> ) , you can just let it finish in the pan . Often , though , after flipping I 'll pop the whole pan into a 400F oven and finish it in there . Again , times will vary , but I would start checking it after 5 minutes . The most accurate way to determine doneness of any meat is with an instant-read thermometer . I love my <URL> , but it 's a bit pricey . You can find inexpensive dial or digital ones at your local grocery . The <URL> is 165F . Normally , I poke my chicken with a finger to determine doneness , then double-check it by cutting it open . Fully-cooked chicken is white all the way through , and the juices run clear when you cut into it . Under-cooked chicken is pink , and the juices run pink as well . I get fresh chicken from a local farm , so I cook it until it is barely done to be sure it stays moist and delicious . For supermarket chicken I would err on the side of completely done , since you have no idea where the meat came from . For reference , fully cooked chicken : Under cooked chicken : Extremely under cooked chicken :
That price is absolutely ridiculous , and there is no way the frying pans are worth it . To Americans : that 's $ 250 for 2 frying pans ! Even All-Clad retails for $ 100 for a frying pan , and it is among the most expensive cookware . Now , in this case , many people can justify that price for All-Clad , because they heat fast and evenly and will last for several lifetimes with proper care . While the Fissler pans may be well-made , I would have a very hard time justifying that kind of money . In particular , the Protect model is nonstick , and nonstick surfaces wear out . There is no way around this . The better ones will last longer , but still you get a couple years of good use before the surface degrades . You 're far better off buying a series of cheap restaurant-supply nonstick pans , and replacing them regularly . I can find decent ones for about $ 20-25 , which means you can get one for probably $ 20 . See my answer to <URL> for where to get the best value ... and why you should n't be spending big money on teflon-coated stuff . I do not feel the " crispy " model is a safe buy , because it emphasizes a gimmicky crisping surface over versatile everyday use . It also does not describe what , if any , sort of copper/aluminum core it uses to ensure fast , even heating . For a pan at this price range , I would expect a multi-ply construction , with aluminum or copper core . To my mind , this does not bespeak money well spent . At a lower price , it might be an entertaining gimmick , but for that much money you will want a solid , versatile all-around pan . In fact , with good deals , you could fully equip a kitchen with cookware for that price . I have a 7-piece multi-ply set that I 'm quite happy with , and it only cost about $ 160 . Throw in a cheap nonstick pan and a cast-iron skillet , and you 're set .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
Wine vinegar and wine are very different although are produced from the same thing . Wine vinegars are vinegars produced from fermenting wine by acetic acid bacteria which convert the ethanol in wine into acetic acid . Being a vinegar , it is much sharper than wine although like wine many flavours can be detected beyond the generic sharp lemon-like flavour , particularly in the premium aged varieties such as balsamic vinegar from Modena . Wine vinegar has no alcoholic content in it and so there is no need to ' burn off the alcohol ' which you would do when cooking with wine . Wine has a much subtler flavour and so would use it in things like gravies , sauces , etc. . Likewise , vinegar is much stronger and I would mainly use it in vinaigrettes or in small quantities in cooking ( ie finishing of a dish with a small drizzle of vinegar ) in much the same way as you might use lemon .
I have a bottle of San-J Tamari ( black label ) in my fridge and the back reads : Tamari is a premium soy sauce made with more soybeans than ordinary soy sauce giving it a richer , smoother , more complex taste . Tamari has more flavor enhancing properties than salt . Add 1 tsp . ( 320 mg sodium ) instead of tsp . salt ( 590 mg sodium ) to reduce sodium intake . Stir-fry or marinate poultry , meat fish and vegetables . Add 1-2 tsp . to perk up sauces , soups , gravies and casseroles . In my experience , I use a little less tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . As Sean mentioned , it 's definitely a bit stronger than regular soy sauce . I eyeball most of the time , but I 'd say I use 1/2 to 3/4 portion of tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . I reach for the tamari when I want a bit more of a complex flavor on something plain like rice - when the soy sauce is to be the star of the dish , essentially . I tend to use regular soy sauce when mixing into a larger homemade sauce or where the soy sauce flavor will blend into the background because the recipe calls for so many other strong ingredients . Oh , and tamari seems to add a bit of an almost " smoky " flavor , it seems .
Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth : Broths are the result of cooking meat , not just bones . They 're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own . The juices poured off from a roasted turkey ( after being degreased ) would be considered broth . Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth . Stocks are made from just the bones . They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes ( sauces , soups , stews , rice , etc. ) Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking . Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks , since it 's really hard to get all the meat off the bones . Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time ( 4-6 hours for chicken &amp; 8-12 for veal/beef ) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones . Broths are n't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods ( even chicken surrounded by the liquid ) will result in tough , flavorless meat . Consomme : a fortified and clarified stock . The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a " raft " which is a combination of lean ground meat ( appropriate to the type of stock being used ) with brunoise ( 1/16 inch ) mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) , and egg whites . The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats , the proteins coagulate forming a " raft " on top of the stock . A small hole is poked in the center ( if one has n't already formed ) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor . Bouillon : French word for broth . Court Bouillon : sometimes called a " short broth " . A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water , acid ( lemon juice , vinegar , wine ) , parsley stems , bay leaves , peppercorns , and some salt . When to use Stock vs. Broth : Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred . Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity is n't important , and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch .
If the cocktail is from the 1800 's it 's just the place of origin . Nowadays the two are both fairly strong rums . They taste almost the same except the Jamaican Rum ( where I live ) is cheaper .
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
Enchiladas are normally shredded meat and/or cheese rolled in corn tortillas , covered in red ( or green ) enchilada sauce and cheese , and then baked . Fajitas are normally strips of meat either grilled or sauteed ( often with onions and peppers ) . They can be used in tacos , burritos , or served on their own or with tortillas on the side ( corn or flour depending on preference ) . Tacos can be either hard or soft shelled and are usually meat ( shredded , ground , grilled etc ) with some sort of cold veggies ( like lettuce , raw onions , pico de gallo , etc ) and perhaps cheese etc. .
Kosher salt is the same thing ( though I 'm pretty sure it 's not iodized ) , but the crystals are less dense and larger . There 's more air in each piece , and they do n't pack together as tightly . That means you have to put a larger volume of kosher to get the same amount of actual sodium chloride ( salt ) . Think of it as the difference between ice cubes ( regular salt ) and snow ( kosher ) . Both are water , but ice cubes are way denser than a scoop of snow . When melting it , you 'll need more volume of snow to come out to the same amount of water as you 'd get from a few ice cubes . So no , it 's not worse for you .
A vinaigrette is not a stable emulsion so it will eventually separate - however it will stay together long enough for the salad to be immediately served and eaten . I find that pouring the oil and acid separately creates a salad with a mouthful of olive oil coating the leaves and pool of vinegar at the bottom of the plate . It 's true that the oil in a vinaigrette will eventually wilt the salad but that is why it should be added at the last minute or even after the salads have been portioned .
I found a link that will provide the explanation you are looking for : <URL> Here is a direct quote from the site : Masa is dried corn that has been cooked in limewater ( cal ) , soaked overnight , and then ground up while still wet . Sold in this form , it 's called fresh masa , and it makes the lightest , fluffiest tamales . In Mexico , it can be purchased at tortilla factories in two ways : with smooth consistency for making tortillas and , upon request ( if you are lucky ) , with a coarser consistency for making tamales . ( Be careful to differentiate between masa para tamales and masa preparada para tamales ; the latter , available at some tortilla factories and large Mexican groceries , is the coarse-textured masa mixed with lard and flavorings .
With chicken and turkey , the most important " trick " to cooking it is to make sure the dark meat gets done before the white meat dries out , and to make sure the skin crisps up somewhat . Duck is all dark meat , and has a thick layer of fat that must be rendered out . There is not a lot of danger in drying out the breast meat like with a chicken . Like Martha said , it 's best to make a few shallow cuts in the skin over the breast ( do n't go all the way through to the meat ) to help the fat render out . A simple ( western ) roasted bird would be cooked at 350 & deg ; F for about 1 hour 45 min , with the oven turned up to 500 & deg ; F for another 15 minutes to crisp up the skin . There is a LOT of fat rendered out , so it 's best to roast in a sturdy roasting pan , on a rack ( so it does n't sit in the fat ) , and drain the fat about an hour into cooking ( save the fat , though ; it 's delicious ) . Personally , I think duck is easier to cook , but it 's definitely different from roasting a chicken .
In the Caribbean green plantains are treated much like potatoes . One technique that is common is twice-frying , usually with a soak in water either before the first fry , in between , or both . Soaking plantains allows them to absorb a little water to help steam the inside as it fries , much like one would do for American-style french fries ( UK : chips ) . One example of this technique is <URL> . The Puerto Rican classic cookbook " Cocina Criolla " by Carmen Valldejuli calls for soaking the plantain pieces in room temperature water with salt and crushed garlic for 15 minutes as well as dipping them in water immediately before the second fry . Like many potatoes , green plantains will often turn brown if left out in the air for too long after being peeled , soaking in water also helps prevent this from occurring as well as reducing the amount of free starch on the outside which can cause over-browning . Elsewhere , both in the Americas and Africa , green plantains are cut very thinly and fried into <URL> ( UK : crisps ) . These are usually 1-2mm thick and also benefit from presoaking . If you decide not to fry them you could also boil them in salted water like a potato or boil them in vinegar with onions , garlic , and spices to make an escabeche . You could also partially cook them in salted water or stock then bake them in the oven .
It is completely a matter of aesthetics , other than the tendency of a metal plate to bring its contents to room temperature more quickly due to its higher thermal conductivity compared to ceramic .
They are just a " product number " , and it may vary for the same kind of pasta from a manufacturer to another .
The Yolk and White are very different and I would expect to see a significant difference in result . That is n't to say it will be bad , just different . The Yolk is the source of fat . It is going to impart flavor to the dish and provide a creamier texture . The White is mostly protein and so will set more , have more of a texture impact . If it called for several whole eggs and you wanted to take a Yolk or two out for less fat , that would have less of a variance , but switching several Yolks to several Whites should definitely alter the results . Extra info : Here is some nutritional information of a Large Whole/White/Yolk . <URL> You will see they both carry protein however the Yolk has almost twice as much fat as protein while the White has less than 2 % of fat as it does protein . This makes their behaviors very different .
Yes , there is a clear difference in never-frozen vs. defrosted meat . The cell plasma in your chicken freezes in the freezer , turning into ice crystals . Since cell plasma is over 90 % water , it expands instead of shrinking in the 0 to -4 ° C range . The crystals cut the cell walls . When you defrost the meat and cook it , the cell plasma flows out into the pan , leaving you with dried out meat . This is the first , major problem with freezing , and occurs even when the meat is frozen for a very short time . If you keep meat stored frozen for longer time , there are two other effects . The unavoidable one is rancidity . The cell plasma in frozen meat has a high mineral concentration , and given time , it will oxidize the fat in meat , changing its taste for the worse . The avoidable one is freezer burn - it occurs if the meat is not wrapped properly in the freezer . Freezer-burned meat is really unpleasant to eat , most people throw out affected parts . Of course , this is not the only factor affecting meat quality . SAJ14SAJ 's comment is true in the sense that bad meat ( from mass-produced young animals grown in bad conditions ) will not have much taste of its own , and even if you prevent it from drying out , it still wo n't be as nice as good meat . But what is more pertinent in this case is that the cooking process can more impact on drying out than a freezing-defrosting cycle . If you cook defrosted meat carefully , you will minimize the dryness effect . It wo n't be the perfect morsel , but it can still taste pretty well . On the other hand , if you have never-frozen meat and overcook it , it can get to shoe-leather consistency , so that you lose all advantages from non-freezing . References : McGee on Food and Cooking , p. 146 ( reputable , dead-paper book ) or <URL> - ( random Google hit , one click away ) .
It depends on what type of lettuce it is -- part of the issue is that if the lettuce is touching plastic , it will rot quicker , so I wrap it in paper towels , then bag it ( but not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . For whole heads of lettuce ( iceburg , butter , red leaf , etc ) , I just wrap the whole thing in dry paper towels , then shove it back into the bag from the grocery store or farmer 's market . I then pull off leaves as I need it , and re-wrap it . It stores for well over a week this way . For mescalin mixes , arugula , or other individual leaves , I 'll wash them , dry them , then unroll enough paper towels to spread the leaves on , then roll up the whole thing , and bag the roll ( again , not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . I can probably get a week out of it this way . ( all times assume you 're not buying from a store where it 's been sitting on the shelf too long before you buy it ; I get my lettuce when I can from the local farmer 's market ) So , to answer the specific questions : keep the bag open ; you do n't want moisture to condense inside the bag , as it 'll make the lettuce rot faster . I get better storage time with heads of letuce keeping them whole . If you 're going to be eating it all within 2-3 days , it probably does n't matter , and for loose lettuce , I find it more convenient to wash it as I re-pack it anyway . You never want to store lettuce wet ... you might be able to store it completely submerged , but damp will lead to it rotting faster .
Olive oil degrades over time so freshness is important . Some of the higher priced olive oils sit on shelves for a very long time and by time they are sold they can be of lower quality than some mass produced olive oils . I 'd say you 're in the right frame of mind and would recommend finding a brand with a local representative who can trust and know the source and timing of the oil . Many smaller olive oil producers do n't bother with organic certification because of cost , but they have same or better standards . Therefore there is a sweet-spot where you can get quality olive oil similar to organics at decent prices . Keep in mind good olive oil is produced in many places , including Greece , Spain , and Lebanon . Not just Italy .
Pan frying means letting the food sit in the pan and occasionally stirring or flipping . It tends to be done with larger pieces of food , and at a medium to medium-high heat . Sautéing means shaking the pan back and forth - making the food " jump " , if you 're translating directly . It 's done at a high heat , for a short time , usually with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped ingredients . Shallow frying , according to some references , refers to the food being partially ( halfway ) submerged in hot oil and flipped once , as opposed to deep-frying where the food is fully-submerged the whole time .
Sandwich or quick bread has different heat requirements than artisan breads . Artisan breads require a blast of high heat and humidity right from the beginning . They are usually baked on flat , preheated stones that store a lot of heat . With breads baked in loaf pans the bread is proofed in the pan which is obviously not preheated . The goal is not a blast of high heat but generally even heating . Stoneware and cast iron will hold a lot of heat but that is n't very useful for this type of bread . The big difference that a stoneware loaf pan will make is in the bread 's crust . Unglazed stoneware will let some moisture escape during baking . Stoneware loaf pans are often used for dishes other than bread such as meatloaf where the even heating and heat retention when serving is valuable . Bread baked in stoneware will be crustier in the area covered by the pan than bread baked in metal . This is a more compelling advantage with quickbreads . In my opinion sandwich bread does n't need to be crusty . Metal bread pans are cheaper , lighter , and less fragile . They wo n't even out any heat gradients in a sloppy oven . If you know your oven is unreliable consider getting a thermal mass ( such as a pizza stone ) to even out the temperature . I have n't used a cast iron loaf pan but my first inclination would be to use it for southern-style cornbread . This type of cornbread is normally cooked in a cast iron skillet . The pan would be preheated with hot fat and the cornbread batter would be poured in . The stored heat in the pan would fry the bread before it rose and set . I do n't know why a cast iron pan would be used for normal bread .
As stated by <URL> ; The crisper provides a somewhat enclosed environment , which prevents moisture from escaping as rapidly . Vegetables keep best at a certain humidity , higher than that typically found in the rest of the fridge , but not so high that condensation starts accumulating on them . Vegetables kept in too-dry air in the rest of the fridge will tend to dry out and shrivel up faster ; those kept in the crisper will retain their water and texture better , keeping them crisp . Leafy vegetables are also much more prone to drying out , since they have much more surface area , while hardier vegetables with a decent skin on them ( like bell peppers ) do n't dry out nearly as quickly . Fruits benefit somewhat from this as well , but do n't generally need as high a humidity as vegetables . Some crisper drawers have little sliders on them which vary the size of the opening to the rest of the fridge , letting you vary the amount of circulation and therefore the humidity ; you can adjust this to suit what you tend to store in the drawer . If you have two crisper drawers , both adjustable , then it might be a good idea to put fruit and hardier vegetables in one , and more vulnerable vegetables in the other . Also , by always putting vegetables in the crisper drawer , you can prevent potential cross contamination between foods i.e. , the vegetables can never come in contact with raw meat , because they 're all in their own separate drawer .
Just as with kneading , stirring develops the gluten in the flour . over-mixing batter is a culinary no-no ( fr . non-non ) . Batters are frequently rested in the refrigerator so the gluten can relax . Foods fried in batter that has been overworked and deprived of adequate rest is like a chef exposed to the same conditions -- tough and tired . Whole wheat flour has considerable difficulty developing its gluten potential because when the outer coat ( bran ) is ground up and combined with the starchy endosperm , sharp particles of bran chop up the strands of gluten as they attempt to form . So the very quality that makes whole wheat flour such a ' pain ' in the ass for bread making makes it highly useful for batters . Whole wheat has practically become my default flour . It 's fine for dusting food articles on their way to the sauté pan , and for making roux . But bear in mind that you may need to use a little more roux than before to achieve a given degree of thickening . That 's because the bran coat displaces a small portion of the starchy endosperm .
I would recommend staying away from a grater and either using a knife or a chocolate chipper ( http://www.amazon.com/Lee-43198-Chocolate-Chipper/dp/B00005NUVX ) . The less friction and the more you keep your hands off it ( because your hand will melt it as you have discovered ) the better .
Pecorino Romano is a heavily salted , aged cheese . As a result , it tends not to " melt " , just as feta , haloumi , and queso fresco tend not to melt ( all are also heavily salted cheeses ) . Presumably mizithra or ricotta salata would work equally well in the ATK recipe , although they would n't taste the same . If you inadvertently purchase a different kind of pecorino ( sardo , for example ) , or even a fairly young pecorino romano , you 'll find that you have the " gooey mess " problem with that procedure . Now , a comment : the ATK recipe for Cacio e Pepe sounds bizarre to say the least . The normal way of making Cacio e Pepe is : Cook pasta normally . Drain pasta , leaving it slightly damp . Toss pasta in a room-temperature bowl with lots of grated cheese and ground pepper . If you follow the traditional recipe , then you can use a wider variety of grating cheeses without worrying about it becoming a gooey mass .
If you are only using it three times a month then this 25lbs bag may last a very long time indeed . The problem is that even white rice can eventually develop off flavors when exposed to light and air . Additionally - even if pests do n't have access to the rice , it is not unlikely that the rice has some eggs on it that can hatch and spoil the whole bag . The solutions to these problems all make it difficult to use the rice in the short term . For long-term food storage dry foods are typically sealed in either # 10 cans or mylar bags . An oxygen absorbing packet is also included . This will prevent spoilage and pest growth . Mylar bags are less expensive and you can open one bag at a time for short term use . Alternatively - if you can freeze the rice to ensure there are no pests then the rice can be stored , sealed , in a cool , dry place as others have described . Given how cheap rice is - it might be acceptable to you to just take your chances and replace it if it spoils after some months .
It mostly depends on the heat used . If you are cooking at a high enough heat that vegetables and thinly-sliced meats ( if using ) are cooked through in only a few minutes then it matches with the term generally used as " <URL> " . In this heat , if you stop stirring even for a moment , pretty much , the food at the hottest part of the pan ( at the base , near the flame ) will start to burn . It needs to be in motion constantly . That 's the stir part of the stir-fry -- constant motion up the curved sides where it is cooler and letting other parts of the food go to the bottom to the heat and around and around . A full dish of meat , veg , noodles , etc can be completely cooked start to finish in just about 5 minutes . <URL> demonstrates stir-frying baby bok choy in 2 minutes of cooking time for the veg , <URL> for 2 minutes , and <URL> at 3-5 minutes . <URL> should also be at a fairly high heat and generally with less oil ( although stir-frying does n't use a lot of oil either , usually ) . The heat is lower than what is implied by stir-fry . With sautéing you are still generally keeping things moving , but it does n't need to be quite as frantic . You can let things stop a moment , and it can help to let them start to brown and caramelize . To demonstrate , <URL> for sautéed baby bok choy cooks them for 7 minutes , <URL> for 9-11 minutes , <URL> cooking it for 4 minutes . The fastest of these is twice as slow as most of the the stir-fry or about the same as the slowest stir-fry . The slowest of these sauté recipes is nearly 3-5 times as slow as the stir-fry with fairly similar ingredients , especially similar to the slowest of the stir-fry recipes . But to be fair , <URL> I was , strictly speaking , abusing the term sautéing by conflating it with even more moderate temperatures ( which are more properly simply called " pan frying " ) . A kadai is a good implement to use for stir-frying , but a kadai can also be used for cooking at a slightly lower temperature . Simply using a kadai does not 100 % determine the end result will be either a stir-fry or a sauté or a gentle fry , or even deep-frying . It 's a versatile vessel . :-)
Many stainless steels are ferric , so will work with induction cooktops . Aluminum can not interact with magnetism , so can not work on induction , so many companies offer stainless steel non-stick pans for the induction market . You wo n't see much difference in performance , and since it 's not what you want in the first place I 'd send it back unused .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
In my experience the primary difference is that Calzones have Ricotta ( and possibly Mozzarella ) and Strombolis only have Mozzarella . In the Philadelphia area , both are folded over pizzas , basically . Growing up , my mother made Stromboli and it was rolled , not folded . I rarely see that in a pizza shop these days , but I do prefer that in a Stromboli . Edit : Just read systempuntoout 's link to Wikipedia and it confirmed something that I was going to post and then deleted . When I was growing up , Strombolis were made from bread dough and Calzones were made from pizza dough ; nowadays all of the pizza shops just use pizza dough . I remember bread stores as being the primary place to get Strombolis growing up because they were the ones that made the dough !
Cut the sprout end off . Place the cut end on the board , slice the onion in half vertically ( i.e. place your knife on the root and cut down ) If the outer skin layer is nice and thick , pull it off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the outer skin is papery , pull it and one layer of onion flesh off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the first layer of onion flesh is slightly dimpled or has a kind of matte finish , it 's probably turning ' skinny ' . Strip that off too .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
It 's hard to know exactly what you 're referring to without any context of the event , location , or what you remember it tasting like , so I 'll give you my best educated guesses . If your pink tea sweet and fruity or floral , it was an herbal tea - <URL> , and not true tea . ( " Tea " actually refers to the plant whose leaves are used the beverage . Anything that is not made from the tea tree is usually called a tisane . ) Some varieties of tisanes that produce a pink liquid include hibiscus , rose petals , rose hips , strawberry . If the above is not the case , I suspect you 're referring to Kashmiri pink tea , sometimes called noon chai . Disclaimer : I ca n't find any authoritative sources about Kashmiri online ; my knowledge of the subject is anecdotal from my own travels in India as well as stories from people I know who have lived or traveled in South Asia . My understanding is that , like masala chai throughout South Asia , pink tea has some general guidelines but everyone customizes it according to taste or local custom . The basic distinguishing factors of Kashmiri pink tea compared to a " regular " black , green , oolong , or white tea are twofold : color and taste . As you mentioned , this tea is pink in color , which other beverages made from the tea tree are not . The pink color comes from the addition of baking soda . As for taste , pink tea tends to elicit mixed opinions about taste because it is salty ; most people around the world typically drink tea unadulterated , or sweetened , but rarely with the addition of salt . Pink tea shares many ingredients with <URL> , often including some or all of the following : Ginger Cardamom Cinnamon Peppercorns Milk or cream Sugar ( or other sweetener ) Unlike masala chai , which is normally prepared with black tea , Kashmiri pink tea uses green or oolong tea leaves . Ingredients included in Kashmiri chai that are not included in most other chai recipes : baking soda ( just a pinch ) ground pistachios and/or almonds salt white poppy seeds The final major difference is in the method of preparation . Masala chai can be made in a matter of minutes by boiling the water , then adding tea , milk , spices and boiling it all together for a few minutes before straining and serving . Kashmiri chai , on the other hand , takes 1-2 hours to prepare ( I believe the long boiling time is required for the baking soda to accomplish its task of turning the tea pink ) . I do n't know the exact process and could n't find any sources that seemed reliable .
According to <URL> : The meat of sheep 6 to 10 weeks old is usually sold as baby lamb , and spring lamb is from sheep of five to six months .
While all of these are large pots ( or may at least come in large sizes ) they have different purposes , which lead to differences in typical construction . Saucepans are intended for general purpose cookery , and usually have solid construction , and permit searing in the pot , reducing , and a variety of other tasks . They are the most difficult to characterize as there is tremendous variation in quality levels and design among the products available . Stock pots are purpose built to make large quantities of stock . Since they are not used for searing typically , and liquids circulate via convection making hot spots not a priority , they are typically constructed from thinner metals ( steal or aluminum ) and do n't have good general purpose cooking qualities . The main virtues in a stock part are low cost , size , and light weight . Dutch ovens ( at least real Dutch ovens ) are a legacy from the time when cooking was done in hearth or campfire . They are designed to be nestled into the coals or embers , with more coals or embers placed on top of the lid , creating a hot oven like interior -- thus the name . True quality Dutch ovens will be fairly thick , usually cast iron , possibly enameled , and may have little legs to help nestle it into the fire above the coals ; similarly , a the lid may actually fit into the pot , allowing coals to easily be piled on top . Dutch overs are actually fairly versatile cooking implements , and can serve for searing , roasting , braising , stewing , biscuit making , soup making , and even some bread applications even in the modern kitchen . Many are large enough to make stock in for home purposes , although they are not absolutely ideal for the task . You will have to ask yourself , given your own cooking patterns , would the general versatility of a dutch oven , or the size of a stock pot serve you better . None of the sets you linked to has a true dutch oven , however ; the one that purports to be a dutch oven has a glass lid ! It might be an okay pot , it is not one I would ever choose . For stainless steel products ( without the specialized legs and concave lid to nest coals in ) , there is very little difference between a dutch oven and a very large sauce pan .
When you are making blueberry muffins , frozen and fresh blueberries will give different end results . Frozen blueberries will almost " melt " when you bake the muffins , because the skin becomes more fragile after freezing . If you use fresh blueberries , they will be more intact after baking and will sometimes still " burst " when you bite into them . Which of these outcomes you prefer is entirely subjective ( though obviously frozen are better ) . As for the taste , some blueberries will have more taste than others . If they are grown out of season , they will most likely be flavourless . This goes for both fresh and frozen blueberries . I 've found a brand of frozen blueberries that I use for muffins that give a have a nice taste year around : others may be terrible . For the remark your wife made about frozen blueberries being rotten : I do n't know where you live , but that is most certainly forbidden in the US and Europe , and probably most places where frozen blueberries are available . That is the only part of her argument that was most definitely wrong . Everything else is subjective or depends on the specific brand of blueberries or even the time of year .
Fine mesh sieve is the usual way , but the way you describe it , yours is not fine enough . Look in professional stores for a " chinois " , this is the kind of sieve you need . But yes , it will take a long time . In classic restaurants , the stock will be cleared before going through the chinois . This is done by floating a rack of eggwhite which bounds the stray proteins . It is at least as slow as the cheesecloth , but more nerve wracking , because you have to do it manually , and it is rather finicky and can easily go wrong . I remember reading about a modern trick of clearing which used gelatine and freezing the stock without a mesh or a rack , but do n't know any more what it was . Maybe somebody else has read it and can supply the details . Edit I returned home and looked the freezing method up ; it is listed in the book " Cooking for geeks " . It contains the sentence As the water in the stock freezes , it will push the impurities into the gelatin The book also has pictures . They show that you do n't end up with fine protein sediment clogging your sieve and finest slit in the stock . The first picture shows the drip-freeze filtered stock compared to the same stock filtered at 100 microns , the difference is large . The second picture shows that after the procedure , what stays in the sieve are cohesive pieces of gelatine with the particles trapped inside , not a film of the scum . So it seems that there is a reason for freezing first . For home use , I just do n't bother clearing my stock , I just use a tea sieve to remove the worst of the protein . When simmered without allowing it to boil , this produces reasonably good stock without all the fuss .
It 's just how long you dry them . Thin apple slices work best for crunchy chips and then just dry them till they 're crunchy - sometimes as much as 18-20 hours . Soft , chewy dehydrated apples just go for a shorter time .
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
No recipe alteration needed . Fried meatballs will develop more of a crust , and thus more flavour through the Maillard reaction . In any case , unless you 're making tiny meatballs ( or finishing their cooking in a sauce of some sort ) , they 're going to need to be finished via baking anyway . I would only do the baking method if I had to make an enormous quantity at once . For home cooking I always fry then bake .
The difference for green onions will be most noticable if you do n't cook them . Instead , slice them up and use them for a garnish over the dish . The white portion of the green onion will still be oniony , but not quite as strong as a raw red onion . Slice them thinly and use for garnish if you really want to bring out the onion qualities of them . If you do n't want it too strong , then add them when you 're cooking . ( and you might not want to slice them as thin ) . The green portion gives a more mild onion taste but also some of the grassy quality that you might get from chives . I treat them like a fresh herb , chop them up , and add in them in the last minute of cooking or I do n't cook them at all . As for substitution ... I 'd only plan to do it if you were cooking for someone who did n't like onions , as they 're milder and come in smaller portions than bulb onions , so it 's easier to control amounts without any waste . ... and I 'd do it if I had them on hand but did n't have bulb onions around . If you 're just looking for a good way to feature the green onions -- grill them . Trim the ends off , clean off any dirt , give them a coat of oil , then toss them on a hot pan or grill . They make a great side dish . Other good uses are to add them into scrambled eggs , green onion pancakes , or press them into naan before cooking it . ... For the white onions , the opposite is true -- they 're generally stronger than red onions . Most people do n't serve it as a raw garnish unless it 's very thinly sliced and used in small amounts . It 's still used raw , but it tends to be blended into other things such as pico de gallo , or guacamole , where the pungency of the onion helps to balance out the sweetness of the tomatoes or richness of the avocado . I 'm having difficulty thinking of a dish where the qualities of the white onion would stand out , though . My only idea is french onion soup , because it just comes out lacking if you make it with sweeter red or yellow onions ... but unless you made them side by side and compared them , I do n't know that you 'd see the difference . You might try cooking them slowly over medium heat until they caramelize ... it 'd let you feature the onions without them being overwhelming , and it brings out some of their more interesting qualities .
Since dietary fiber is made mostly of cellulose that is n't broken down during cooking I do n't think it should be an issue . The browning that occurs is from the proteins and sugars already in the onion . <URL>
Actually they recently came up with <URL> for civet coffee . Apparently a great deal of supposedly authentic stuff never actually traveled through the bowels of a cat . According to the <URL> , the levels of citric acid , malic acid , and the inositol/pyroglutamic acid are so much higher in kopi luwak that their ratios can be used to validate mixes with other beans where the proportion of kopi luwak is 50 % or greater .
Pasta as you know is a simple egg and flour mixture . You can add flavouring to it to give it a different spin or even a colour but at it 's root it 's just an egg dough . The different type of shapes are " meant " for different types of sauces in a traditional sense . I do n't want to imply that you MUST use one type of pasta with one type of sauce . What I 'm saying is that a particular style of noodle shape just lends itself better to certain suace types . I.E. penne , rigatoni , macaroni work really well with a sauce that needs a place to sit and hide so that each mouth full gives you the right amount of sauce to noodle ratio . Mac &amp; Cheese is a great example of this . In a soup or salad the type of pasta you choose is probably going to reflect the need of the guest and how you plan to serve the dish . With a soup you want to have a spoon that will carry the right proportions of broth , vegetables , pasta in each bite . Because of that you select a small pasta shape like orzo . However , as cooking is all about using what you have on hand , if you do n't have orzo but you have fetticini then use that but break it up first so it will work the same way . Hope that helps .
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
There is no difference in food taste when cooking using gas or electric . Gas burns pretty cleanly so is not going to leave a flavor residue you could detect . Cooking over flame as in a barbecue or a pot over a campfire does change the flavor because of the smoke , that 's the only case I can think of where the heat source can change the flavor of the food .
Never down the drain . We 've had a few incidents in my neighborhood where the sewer pipes were clogged with fat , and a few people 's basements flooded with sewage as a result . For fats that solidify , let them do so , then pitch them in your regular garbage . Chill grease in the fridge if you need to get it to harden up . For ones that do n't solidify , pour them into a sealable ( <URL> ) bottle , and throw the whole container away with your regular garbage . It 's possible that your area might accept cooking fats &amp; oils as part of a recycling effort . Ours does for motor oil ( I live in Maryland ) . For restaurants , some places ( eg , the state of Maryland ) require a system for catching grease that 's been washed down the sink . It 's my understanding that they 're fairly expensive ( a couple thousand dollars US ) , but the fines for not having one installed may be even more , and they wo n't let new restaurants open without one .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
Nope . For peanut butter cookies it 's just a matter of taste , and it 's 1:1 .
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
Using stock ( or broth ) has two advantages over plain water : It is more flavorful , giving your pie a better , deeper background richness It contains gelatin , which may improve the mouth feel of your pie , giving it a thicker , silkier , richer texture Depending on your particular pie recipe 's filling , this may not make a huge amount of difference , or it could be the difference between a so-so and a great pie .
I usually slit the prawn flesh just above and along the line of the vein to expose it and to make it easier to then pull out . This is different from butterflying a prawn , which involves a deeper cut ( but not all the way through ) of the prawn along most of its length along the same line as the de-veining cut , but also leaving the tail on usually . <URL> shows the de-veining technique and the butterflying .
Prefer the larger , heavier grill . It 's about thermal capacity and grill marks . You want the grill itself to be hot so that when the meat touches it , it immediately sears the meat on contact . The bigger the thermal mass , the better this works . Regardless of what you get , you 're going to need to replace the grates every few years , so bear that cost factor in mind .
There are many styles of burger , so there is no single answer . Steamed sliders are going to have different constraints than a smashed burger compared to a pub style burger . For burgers that are griddled ( for the purposes of this post , cooked on a hot , flat surface ) , the main issue is how much heat can get into the burger , and how fast ; secondarily , there are issues of sticking and general maintainability . Some hamburger cooking methods rely on sustainable , very high heat to sear the outside of the burger , and give a good crust , even while maintaining a less cooked intererior . This is dependent mostly on the total thermal mass of the pan . Stone - Lots of mass , but low thermal mass . Does n't transmit heat very fast . Also requires considerable care and maintenance to prevent sticking . Pan - There are so many types , it is hard to give a single characterization . Thicker , heavier metal tends to be better . See <URL> for some general advice . Cast Iron - Generally has high weight , and very good thermal conductivity ( compared to any non-metal ) , so often ideal for high temperature searing of hamburgers . Requires seasoning and maintenance . Charcoal ( or propane ) grill -- can develop extremely hot radiant heat , which is ideal for some forms of burger cookery , but can not be done inside . However , there are so many different types of tools and styles of burger , the quality of outcome is going to depend on your skill , what you are trying to achieve , and how you use the equipment you have as much as the specific pan that you use . Similarly , the flavor is going to depend , not only on how you cook ( which can develop the seared , brown , meaty flavors ) , but how you season the meat , and the quality of meat you start with . This is again as important as the particularly pan that you might use .
This is a theoretical answer based on several publications and it would require actual experimental tests . The most probable tip seems to maintain your sourdough at 32 ° C as it will affect facultatively heterofermentative lactobacilli present in your sourdough . A lot of spread knowledge provides , without explanation , several tips such as : feed your starter more regularly , use more starter , add baking soda , use white flour , add baker 's yeast , rest your dough at cooler temperature , etc. . Wikipedia <URL> a <URL> by Debra Wink to assert : Conversely , a wetter and warmer starter has more bacterial activity and less yeast growth , with more lactic acid relative to acetic acid . Debra Wink 's post is a quite detailed theory of what 's going on with lactic and acetic acid productions in sourdough based on several research papers . The temperature argument is not so clear and seems to be based on so-called baker 's rule that low temperatures ( 20 -- 26 ° C ) are better for yeast growth . Indeed , this paper argues that you will need a warm temperature ( 90 ° F or 32 ° C ) and enough humidity as these are the optimal conditions for the growth of lactobacilli , and you need to slow the growth of yeast . While some yeast species ( such as <URL> ) grow faster within 20 -- 26 ° C range , the optimum temperature for growth of <URL> , the species of baker 's yeast , is supposed to be <URL> . And more importantly , yeast does not produce acetic acid or lactic acid , it only produces ethanol ( alcohol ) and CO2 . All acids are produced by bacteria . Lactic acid is produced by <URL> and to increase the lactic acid to acetic acid ratio , it seems you will indeed need to favor lactobacilli growth , hence the temperature argument . However , details are more complex . There are three kinds of lactobacilli : obligately homofermentative , producing two lactic acid molecules per 6-carbon sugars ; obligately heterofermentative , producing one lactic acid molecule , and one ethanol molecule and one CO2 molecule per 6-carbon sugars ( or just lactic acid and ethanol for lactobacilli able to ferment pentoses ) ; facultatively heterofermentative , chosing either path depending on availability of sugars and required energy . Facultatively heterofermentative lactobacili will apparently choose the homofermentative path ( produce only lactic acid ) at higher temperature . Acetic acid is a by-product of the metabolism of heterofermentative path : whether you end up with ethanol ( CH3CH2OH ) or acetic acid ( CH3COOH ) depends on the availability of co-substrates . Obviously , you might consider having only homofermentative lactobacilli , or facultatively heterofermentative lactobacilli in a warmer environment , yet you might not be able to choose your starter with this precision in your kitchen . Indeed , the issue seems to concern obligatively heterofermentative lactobacilli including Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis , which has been extensively studied as it is part of common sourdough . According to the post mentioned above , it will produce acetic acid by co-metabolizing fructose with maltose . However , Henry Ng , in a <URL> referenced by this post , found that limiting oxygen will limit the amount of acetic acid in a sourdough composed of Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis . In fact , this paper established Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis as an obligatively heterofermentative lactobacilli . Furthermore , <URL> , another author being referred to , oxygen is the co-substrate for acetic acid , Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis will reduce fructose to mannitol , not to acetic acid , and the amount of oxygen is limited anyway ( unless you shake it as Henry Ng 's team did ) . Consequently , the production of lactic acid appears to be the principal factor of the lactic to acetic acid ratio . Please note that this author stresses that you do need acetic acid in your sourdough : Spicher says that a ratio of 20 acetate to 80 lactate is optimal . [ ... ] The acetic acid is furthermore important as growth of spoilage organisms such as molds or rope causing bacilli ( Bacillus subtilis ) is inhibited by high acetic acid concentrations .
With regard to your source that suggests adding lettuce will reduce foaming of the oil : it might be possible to use lettuce as a tool to scoop up surfactants from the surface of the oil . If you 're going to attempt it , I think the best time to do it would be when the oil is cool . An Introduction to Surface Tension Foaming is related to surface tension : for example , adding a <URL> ( such as soap in water ) to a liquid reduces its surface tension , which makes bubbles more stable . So to reduce foaming , you would need to increase the surface tension . Note that we ca n't increase surface tension by adding something to the oil : the only way to increase the surface tension of a liquid with an additive is to increase its overall density . To see why that 's the case , suppose for a moment that there were a magical substance that liked to stay on the surface of the liquid and caused higher surface tension . That higher surface tension would compress the liquid , and raise its pressure . That means any spot on the surface that had less of the substance would have less surface tension and less pressure , so the pure liquid would be pushed out of that spot and cover the surface . That process would result in the substance never actually being on the surface of the liquid , which contradicts our starting assumption , so no such substance can exist . Instead , such substances become distributed evenly throughout the interior of the liquid ... and , if they make the liquid more dense , that raises its surface tension . So , if we want to increase the surface tension of aging oil , the only way we can do that is by removing surfactants from the oil , assuming we do n't want to mix the oil with large quantities of something more dense . Surface Tension and Frying As J. B. Rossell explains in <URL> ( with credit to BaffledCook for finding the source ) , surface tension is very important in deep fat frying , beyond just the idea of foaming . Initially , oil for deep fat frying tends to undercook ( or takes longer to cook ) food , because few surfactants are present in fresh oil . Due to the high surface tension , the oil is less often in direct contact with the food being fried ( as little as 10 % of the time it is submerged ) , which means less heat transfer by conduction , less of a crust , and less oil present in the final product . As the oil gradually breaks down with repeated cooking , surfactants build up in the oil , reaching an ideal range which gives the preferred golden crust and moderate greasiness , with oil being in contact with the food between 20 % and 50 % of the time it is submerged . When the oil goes bad , the high quantity of surfactants results in too much contact between the oil and the food , resulting in greasy food that is overcooked on the outside and undercooked on the inside , and may have a bad flavor due to the rancidity of the oil , or contamination from the food being fried . Removing Surfactants First of all , I want to say that I 'm not sure I 'm in favor of trying to prolong the life of frying oil beyond its natural lifetime : the breakdown of the oil results in potentially cancer-causing free radicals , so I 'd rather err on the side of replacing the oil too often , especially if I 'm cooking for myself or loved ones . If you were going to re-use the oil anyway , you might be able to reduce the amount of oil that gets into your food by reducing the quantity of surfactants , but if you 're debating saving money by using your fry oil longer than you normally would , I 'd say a bottle of oil is cheaper than a trip to the oncologist 's office . Speaking of cost , I think a bottle of most oils used for frying is also cheaper than a head of lettuce , so I 'm not sure how economically viable this strategy is . That said , since surfactants ( SURface ACTive AgeNTS ) are attracted to the surface of the liquid ( they find a lower energy state by decreasing the energy of the boundary between two liquids or a liquid and a gas ) , they can potentially be removed by skimming ( or just pouring ) them off the surface . ( I expect putting the oil in a narrow bottle and pouring off some of the oil from the top would be a more economically viable solution to remove surfactants . ) Because crinkly lettuce leaves have a high surface area , its possible that just dipping lettuce in the oil and drawing it out might remove a significant amount of surfactant , especially if the surface area of the lettuce leaf is high in comparison to the surface area of the pot that the oil is in : the surfactant will attempt to spread evenly across the entire surface of the oil . If we assume the surfactant is attracted only to the oil/air boundary ( note : I have no knowledge of whether this is actually the case , or whether the material of the container matters ) , then when a lettuce leaf with a surface area equal to the surface area of the oil/air boundary is dipped into the oil , and then slowly removed , the oil covering the top of the pot and the oil covering the lettuce leaf will have roughly equal su
end question
