start question
Paris on a Tuesday - are the Louvre and the Pompidou Centre the only " big " attractions that are closed ?
Tuesday is national museum closing day in France . Many <URL> are closed on Tuesdays , as are many local museums outside Paris . In Paris , most city-owned museums are closed on Mondays . Some museums are open later on one night a week , usually Thursdays . Most museums close on some <URL> but not all . There are many exceptions , so always check before you go . I think the reason why Tuesday was picked as a closing day is that normal people should be able to visit museums , so they are open on Saturdays and Sundays . Many shops are closed on Mondays , so museums are open that day for the sake of people who work in shops . In Paris , most shops are open on Mondays , so there is less point in opening the museums for their sake . Here are a few popular attractions ¹ that close on Tuesdays : <URL> <URL> ( national modern arts museum ) <URL> ( natural history museum ) <URL> ( Tuileries ) Here are a few popular attractions that close on Mondays : <URL> ( the grounds open every day ) <URL> ( classical arts ) <URL> ( indigenous art ) <URL> ( history of Paris ) <URL> ( municipal modern art museum ) <URL> <URL> ( may depend on the exhibition ) <URL> <URL> ( design ) <URL> ( arts and crafts ) <URL> ( La Villette technology museum ) Here are a few popular attractions that open 7 days a week ( except holidays ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> ( military museum in the Invalides ) <URL> ( wax figures ) <URL> has a list of museums in Paris with addresses , opening dates and times , and prices . At a glance , it looks reasonably accurate . ¹ Roughly , the top visited museums according to <URL> .
I was in Hong Kong recently and there was nothing that appeared to be ' weekend only ' . I did n't see any change in how crowded things were at weekends compared with weekdays . Hong Kong is always incredibly crowded . We did try to visit the Hong Kong Museum of History on a Tuesday and found that it was closed every Tuesday . ( It is well worth it , by the way - we came back a different day ) You might find that other museums have a ' closing day ' too .
The Google Maps coverage of Laos is not great ( we 're working on it ... ) , but <URL> from Vientiane to Savannakhet and beyond to the Cambodian border is the main highway in Laos and there 's plenty of facilities en route . Not much of it up to Western standards , mind you , but I gather you 're fine with this ;) The main cities/points of interest along the way , with distances from Vientiane : <URL> , 147 km , pop . ~ 20k . A few basic guesthouses . Not to be confused with the far larger Pakse further down south ! <URL> , 232 km from Vientiane plus ~ 50 km detour along Rte 8 . Small village , but with half a dozen guesthouses catering for visitors to Kong Lor Cave nearby . <URL> ( Thakhek ) , 338 km , pop . 85000 . Largest city en route , with a bridge across the Mekong to Nakhon Phanom , Thailand and plenty of accommodation .
If you enter the locker area from the ground floor ( not via the escalators ) , then by the lost property desk are a handy set of baggage sizers , so you can quickly work out what size you need ! They look like this , rucksack included to help with a sense of size Having worked out what size you want , you then wander round the banks of lockers ( of which there were something like 5 rows ) . When you see a bank with the size you want , the screen will tell you if any are free ( look for the green bar at the top ) , then switch it to English if you need and proceed to rent your locker . Costs were from NOK 50 to NOK 70 per 24 hour rental , but you forfeit any remaining time if you open the locker during the period . In addition , they also had a set of full height ski lockers at the very back , so you could store your skis too ! Looked to be about 20 or so of those .
Numerous airlines worldwide have inflight WiFi . Within the US , Wifi is available on at certain flights from ( at least ) the following airlines : Air Tran ( All planes ) , Alaska , American Airlines , Delta , JetBlue , SouthWest , United ( p.s. flights only ) , US Airways , Virgin The majority of these airlines use ground-based connections , using technology similar to mobile phone data connections . Most use technology and services from <URL> . A smaller number of airlines use trialing Satellite-based systems , which obviously work better for routes over water ( eg , trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic ) . <URL> is the most common provider in this space . Performance is generally suitable for general web browsing , but not for services such as video streaming . In fact , most services specifically block video streaming services like NetFlix . Internet service is only available above 10,000 feet ( similar to other electronic devices ) .
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
Most attractions are open on Sundays , but a number are just open for 6 hours , from 11:00 -17:00 or 12:00 -18:00 , so be sure to check each one individually . <URL>
Yes . It is easy and you have several options . From the Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Airpot , you can easily reach ski resorts located in the Salzburger Land or even in Tyrol . There are <URL> . You also have tthe possibility to take a <URL> . Eventually , you can <URL> . As an example , <URL> are only a 30 minutes car drive from Salzburg . This means that you can easily reach it in an hour by bus . The big resorts , such as <URL> or the <URL> can be reached by a shuttle in roughly 90 minutes from Salzburg airport . If you intend to stay only a couple of days , like an extended weekend , Faistenau can be a good choice . It 's cozy and the ski resort is big enough . And it is not too far from the aiprort . If you want to check distances and travel time , you can use <URL> . That will give you a good estimate . Details for busses and shuttles are available via the airport 's website , by using the links given above .
Part of the reason it 's hard to find general information is that different tickets may have different change/refund policies and fees , depending on the type of ticket you buy , booking class , and other factors . So to be sure of having the right answer , you have to read the fine print in your ticket , or call the airline if necessary . However , my experience is that the following policies are typical for non-refundable tickets on United and the other major US airlines : Whether you change or cancel the flight , the effect is pretty much the same : they take the original price of your ticket , subtract the change fee ( if any ) , and let you use what 's left as credit toward any new flight ( s ) on their airline . There are normally no restrictions as to where you can fly ; the origin and destination can be completely different from the original flight . If the new flight costs more than your credit , you have to pay the difference . If it costs less , you can use the difference on another flight . The credit normally does expire . In fact , a common rule is something like " all travel must be completed within one year of the original booking date " . So if you bought a ticket in March 2015 for travel in June 2015 , and you want to change/cancel it , the new flight has to be not only booked , but actually flown , by March 2016 . ( So it 's not allowed to use that credit in February 2016 to book a flight for April 2016 . ) There may also be a " no name changes " requirement : it may be that you can only use the credit to buy tickets for yourself ( or whoever was originally travelling ) , not for other people .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
Local police regularly checks bags at the metro entry , but very rarely they will check visa . If in such case you do not have a passport with you , no one will ask for bribe as @JonathanReez wrote , that 's sounds very funny actually :) ) they will verify your status and that is it , might call the hotel or take you to the hotel . I lived in Tashkent for almost half of a year , used metro and never was asked for my visa , though I know people who very occasionally stopped and asked for documents , they had their documents with them ( usually everyone carries their passport if travelling in foreign country ) , so they were fine . Just keep you passport with you no matter which foreign country you visit :)
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
This answer assumes your entry clearance was issued under Appendix V of the rules . Your entry clearance was cancelled and you were removed from the UK . The stated reason is that you did not have the funds to pay for the cigarettes you were importing , I figure it was roughly GBP 160 . The Immigration Officer was entitled to assume that you were in a position to be aware that import duty was required when you bring lots of cigarettes in to the UK , and similarly you were in a position to know roughly the amount you needed to pay . And you did not have have the money to hand . This leaves the inevitable conclusion that you did not intend to pay and instead sell them inside the UK on the black market , which would be illegal . And so you were removed . While you can not be sure , it 's likely they got you on <URL> , sub paragraph ( iii ) ... ( iii ) on grounds which would have led to a refusal under paragraphs 320 ( 2 ) , 320 ( 6 ) , 320 ( 18A ) , 320 ( 18B ) or 320 ( 19 ) ( except where this sub-paragraph applies in respect of an entry clearance issued under Appendix Armed Forces it is to be read as if for " paragraphs 320 ( 2 ) , 320 ( 6 ) , 320 ( 18A ) , 320 ( 18B ) or 320 ( 19 ) " it said " paragraph 8 ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( g ) and paragraph 9 ( d ) " ) ... which is hard to read but when all the gobbledygook is resolved , it means you did not disclose in your entry clearance application that you were coming to the UK to do something illegal . Would it be difficult to get another entry clearance soon ? It 's all down to the opinion of whomever you ask , so leaving opinions aside , you need to instruct a UK solicitor to handle your next application . Without a professional on your case who has a practice area in complex applications , then yes , getting another entry clearance will be very difficult . What are the potential consequences on future UK entrepreneur visa applications , as I meet all their criteria easily ? Well no , perhaps you did meet all their criteria at some point , but moving from peddling cigarettes on the black market to becoming a Tier 1 Entrepreneur is going to be a bit awkward to explain . In other words your credibility has taken a serious hit with respect to anything on the <URL> side of things . If you want to ask more questions about this aspect of your removal , you need to use the <URL> . This site is constrained to Appendix V of the rules . What is the potential impact on future Schengen visas , which I already got more than 15 times ? Assuming we 're back on the visitor/tourist side of things where Schengen is concerned ( as opposed to a skilled migrant ) , you can be sure that the UK told Schengen about the event . So it 's reasonable to expect Schengen to refuse under Reason 9 , see <URL> because as mentioned your credibility has taken a hit and you need a practitioner to determine what and when your next visa application will be . Update In comments the OP revealed that he was actually removed under Paragraph 320 ( 19 ) which is a key reference in my guess of Paragraph 321 ( iii ) above so the above answer remains ' as is ' . The Paragraph 320 ( 19 ) says ... ( 19 ) The immigration officer deems the exclusion of the person from the United Kingdom to be conducive to the public good . For example , because the person 's conduct ( including convictions which do not fall within paragraph 320 ( 2 ) ) , character , associations , or other reasons , make it undesirable to grant them leave to enter . What this tells us is that during the landing interview and subsequent detention followed by the removal , you did something that got them angry . Your narrative does n't include that part of the episode , but we can assume that there were one or more displays of indecorous behaviour which were interpreted as disruptive or insulting . So as the Americans say , they " upped the ante " . During my training with the IAS , I worked with detainees at Heathrow and Gatwick and can attest that detention is a very stressful event . It disrupts one 's plans in an unexpected way , and the anxiety caused by having your phone confiscated can be horrific . And worse , the detention room at any given point in the day will have a variety of muttering whackos , incoherent screwballs , drunkards and the like that can invade one 's sense of personal safety . They monitor and keep it safe , but for a novice , it can be intimidating . For some people , this will result in inappropriate behaviour . However , it 's important to remain calm and compliant or matters can become dramatically worse , like in this case . Follow up questions from the comments ... is there any ban period for sometime under paragraph 320 ( 19 ) No , there are no provisions in Paragraphs 320 or 321 to issue a ban from portside ( except in felony type situations like forgery ) . The rules are clear that bans are issued at the application stage . So you do not have a ban , presumably good news for you . also it would be highly unlikely that all my future uk application might refuse straightaway As I pointed out , ba
There is not a single site or even multiple sites where the costs will be published . Reason being is that most doctor 's practices are private businesses and are not governed by any entity as far as cost is concerned . From the past experiences of myself and many others the cost for a regular office visit runs $ 80 - $ 200 depending on the physician . Urgent care visit runs $ 120 - $ 250 depending on what they had to do , and so on . Emergency rooms could get a lot more expensive depending on the care that they had to provide you and the hospital you visit . So if you feel like judging costs of care you should probably start looking at review sites like YELP : <URL> <URL> Where cost is mentioned in the reviews . P.S. Supposedly the new <URL> is supposed to provide you with that information .
Prague is safe , I would say to the European standards . You really do n't get people coming to you with a knife and wanting your money , certainly not in touristic areas and not during the day ( a bit more to this later ) . So , most theft comes from people not being careful enough . The standard rules apply that nothing valuable has to be accessible : no wallets in pockets , no valuables in handbags , no loosely carried cameras etc. . Also , be careful about your cellphone . If you want some money accessible easily for convenience , have change and maybe two notes in a pocket ; this would n't be much a loss if stolen . So , either wear a backpack with a pocket not accessible from outside ( and also not easily accessible through cutting ) or use a money belt . Common places for theft are the Charles Bridge , in front of the Astronomical Clock , places with seasonal street markets , and especially the underground and trams . Second type of theft is through people offering something on the street ( could be jewellery , drugs , sex services , money exchange , ... ) . I recommend not to interact with these much , simply say a firm " I do n't need anything , thanks , " and ignore them from that point , avoiding any further contact . Things get slightly different at night , but only in some places . Most importantly , the top of the Wenceslas Square and the adjacent street Ve Smečkách , the park in front of the Main Railway Station ( " the Sherwood " ) and quarters Holešovice , Karlín , Žižkov . You do n't need to go there at night , so do not . ( Not that someone would kill you , but local people have some interesting stories about these places . )
I use a combination of packing cubes , amenity kits I get for free from airlines , and cheap little zippered bags that get sold as pencil cases , makeup kits etc ( the dollar store has lots of sizes . ) I deliberately get a wide variety of colours ( so they 're easy to tell apart ) and sizes ( because sometimes you need a lot of room and sometimes you do n't . ) I give each bag a name - " bathroom stuff " , " first aid kit " , " eating kit " ( this is spare napkins and disposable cutlery , little extra packets of sugar , instant coffee etc , that you need when you 're eating on the go or in your room and you 're missing something ) , and so on . My packing list actually calls these things out by their names and colours eg " yellow first aid kit " and I have the packing list split up by bag and part of the bag so I might know that the yellow first aid kit is in the silver suitcase , on the far left when the handle is towards you . Clothes are in packing cubes by size - so one small cube is underwear , socks , etc , while a larger cube is shirts . If I do happen to toss an extra pair of socks in when I leave home , the next time the stuff comes out of the suitcase , those socks will be moved to the cube where they belong . This technique worked great on a 5 week trip where we packed and unpacked as frequently as every night and the longest in one place was 4 nights . Nothing got lost and we always knew where things were .
Since each of these countries would unilaterally decide whether they recognize Schengen visas and under which conditions , I do n't think it 's possible to find an official list anywhere . I am marking this answer as " community wiki " so that we can come up with a list : Bulgaria , Romania , Croatia and Cyprus ( all EU members ) have rules modelled on those of the Schengen area and allow holders of some types of Schengen visas to visit the country , see <URL> , <URL> and previous questions on this site , e.g. . <URL> Official sources are hard to come by but Albania apparently allow holders of multiple-entry Schengen visa who have already used their visa at least once to visit one of the countries of the Schengen Area , see <URL> and <URL> . Turkey provides some concessions to those that normally need visas . If you normally need a visa for Turkey , and you hold a Schengen visa - you may be able to avail the new electronic " e-visa " system . The list of countries whose citizens can avail this exemption <URL> . <URL> , multiple-entry Schengen visa holders can visit Bosnia and Herzegovina for 7 days . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Macedonia for 15 days ( with some caveats ) . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Serbia for 90 days . <URL> confirms that information . <URL> and <URL> , Mexico offers a visa exemption for 180 days to those holding a valid visa issued by " Canada , Japan , USA , United Kingdom or a Schengen Member State " ( this may be further restricted by nationality ) . <URL>
A Swiss online resource I know is <URL> . It lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland that are worth a visit . I quickly checked it , and all I know of are on the list . Unfortunately the list is in German , but at least some of the further links are also available in English . If you 're looking for an English resource I would recommend <URL> . It also lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland and also here I could found all spas I know . I personally can recommend <URL> . It is a little bit out of the way , but it is really beautiful and also from an architectural point of view worth a visit .
Fortunately for you , <URL> . As the link indicates , the act is mostly inoperative , and : " ... as a result most shops and businesses may open whenever they please , including on Sundays and public holidays . " Supermarkets and convenience stores are often open longer on Sundays . The only small issue if you want to get started early , is that off-license shops that sell alcohol are not permitted to do so on Sundays until after 12.30 pm .
end question
start question
Are there any buses to Rocky Mountain House , Alberta , Canada ?
Red Arrow has <URL> , but only one round trip , and only on Tuesdays . The Red Arrow Connector leaves Red Deer iHotel at 6:00 pm , after picking up at several other points in town , and reaches Rocky Mountain House at 7:15 pm . The trip to Red Deer leaves Rocky Mountain House at 6:05 am and arrives at iHotel at 7:20 am , afterward stopping at several other points in Red Deer . iHotel is the primary transfer point for buses going to and from Calgary and Edmonton . The buses stop in the west parking lot behind the hotel ; you will see a Red Arrow sign . Based on the <URL> , you should not have a very long wait to change buses , traveling in either direction . Red Arrow canceled its Rocky Mountain House service in June 2015 . As of now , there seems to be no public transit between these two towns at all . Of course , the town nearest to where you 're really going is <URL> , and this town has no public transit services at all . From my searching , I also was unable to find any shuttle services , as are common in the U.S. . The <URL> might know of such services ; it may be worth giving them a call and asking if they know of anyone who can arrange a ride for you from Rocky Mountain House or Red Deer .
If you are flying economy If you have a baby flying with you : Take the first row of the zone you are setting in . First rows are usually where the fittings for the baby basinets are available . Also , you will be close to toilets to change diapers and so . If you are travelling with kids : Take a side of a row next to the window at the beginning or end of a zone . The windows too keep kids busy and the end or beginning of a zone to be close to toilets because kids are frequent pee-ers and vomiters . If you want to sleep during the flight : Take a window seat in the middle of a zone . In the middle to be away from noise ( lavatories and galleys ) and a window seat so no one bothers you to get in or out . If you are planning to stay awake during the flight : Take an aisle seat , will be easier for you to get out and in anytime you want to stretch your legs or just to get little social in the plane . You are a teacher and traveling with group of kids , like in school stuff : Group the kids in one part of the plane , and take a seat at the very other side of the plane . Travelling with the significant other : Cinema rule apply here , take two seats at the end of the plane either on the left or right . In many wide bodied airplanes the last row on the sides have only two seats due to the shape of the fuselage . No one will be sharing the moment with you ! If you are flying First or business class This is extremely different from one airlines to another , some airlines even provide shower rooms , bars and other services . You will get the best of the airline in these classes , limited number of passengers and many services . So no worries . Please note : I said zone , not class . Classes can have multiple zones , especially in economy class in wide bodied airplanes . A zone is usually the area between two sets of doors with a bulkhead separating them .
<URL> has a pretty easy system if you want to book - you can book , and if your flight is delayed , <URL> . They do ask that you book in advance however , to ensure bookings where possible . A better option for your situation may be <URL> who specifically state : Sun Palm Transport is the only Transport Operator which has welcome desks at both the domestic and international arrival terminals . If you have n't already made a booking for your Cairns Airport Transfers , through our online booking system , SUN PALM TRANSPORT operates service desks at Cairns Airport , for your convenience , one in each of the arrival terminals , to assist you with your transfers So that one , you can actually just rock up . They also have timetables and more information on the site . <URL> requires a booking in advance . <URL> also seems to require an advance booking .
Yes . HiHostels has not one , but two hostels in Dubai . They 're not terribly imaginatively named , but : <URL> <URL> You do n't need to be an HI member to stay there , but you do get a discount if you are one .
Until few months ago , french railways had the monopoly of long distance travel . This has changed recently and Eurolines now offers <URL> .
According to <URL> : Obtaining systemwide upgrades When you qualify or re-qualify for AAdvantage ® Executive Platinum status : And that 's it , as far as anything a typical frequent flyer can aim for in a given program year . Million Miler You get additional SWUs ( previously known as eVIPs or VIPOWs ) in the <URL> program , four for every million base miles after the first million . Thus , you get four at 2,000,000 miles , then another four at 3,000,000 , and so on . Gift SWUs can be gifted from another AAdvantage account . If you have a friend or colleague who , for example , has expiring SWUs they will not be able to use , you can ask them to have it applied to an upcoming trip of yours . There are several things to note : You must have actually booked a trip , as the SWU is applied to a particular PNR . The SWU is not transferred to your account ; it remains in the original account and is simply applied to your itinerary . The expiration date on the SWU is not reset . Bartering , selling , or trading the SWU for any other consideration is against the AAdvantage Terms and Conditions . There are <URL> people have attempted to use to sell benefits , and the airlines have no tolerance for any of them . Buying/bartering As I just said , the SWU is voided if sold or traded for cash or any other consideration -- but there 's more . AAdvantage is a private program administered by American Airlines , and so it is the judgment of American Airlines that determines whether or not you have broken the rules . They can not only cancel the cert but take away all your other miles and status , nullify your MM progress , or close your account and ban you for life from the program altogether . The airlines do monitor eBay , Craigslist , and other sites and investigate transactions they find suspicious . AA specifically was involved in the wholesale shutdown and revamping of the <URL> at FlyerTalk over these issues , and American Airlines items remain banned there completely . Customer service You 'll find anecdotal reports on the Internet of high value customers being given a SWU as a customer service gesture in some extreme cases , like someone in paid international first class being delayed two days and then downgraded to a middle seat in economy . It is likely that such a SWU would be inscribed on dragon skin , placed in a case made of unicorn horn , and delivered by a sasquatch wearing a coat of angel feathers . As you note , the SWU is an extremely valuable benefit , and an expensive one for AA . They have no reason to make it easy to obtain -- otherwise , they would essentially be giving away their most profitable seats , and the most desirable benefit offered to their most loyal customers .
The usual commercial problem with sleeper trains is that the vehicles carry significantly fewer passengers than a seated vehicle and often either can not be used at all in daytime , or are stuck at the same capacity as they have overnight . The standard capacities for a European train carriage ( 26m long , with a toilet ) are 36 for a sleeper , 54 for a couchette ( roughly hostel-equivalent accomodation ) , 57 for a first-class seated carriage and 76 for a second-class seated carriage . The proportions will be similar for buses . This means that the sleeper cars have to earn enough money from fewer passengers doing one overnight journey to match several daytime journies for a seated car - but the sleeper is generally more expensive to buy and more expensive to run ( overnight pay for the driver , and usually attendants in addition to the guard/conductor ) . This means that fares have to be a lot higher for a sleeper to make a profit . Sleeper trains have been run by European railways as a loss-making public service , but are being wound down as railways become more commercial . Sleeper buses are going to have a similar set of problems - they will cost more to buy than a conventional bus , and will carry fewer passengers , and will have higher running costs ( at the very least , the bedding will need to be changed and washed ) - and they ca n't be used for daytime journeys , so they will probably sit in the middle of the day . That means they will need to charge a substantial fare premium over a seated coach to make a profit ( at least double and more likely triple the fare ) . In countries where there are good alternatives like car rental or cheap flights , then this is likely to limit the market . Unless they can offer something distinctive ( like an early morning arrival in a city where the airport is not allowed to have night landings ) , they may struggle to get passengers . If there is n't an existing regulatory regime for getting sleeper buses approved , then the costs of getting the government to create one are likely to be too great for an operator to be prepared to pay - and note that some countries prohibit them entirely . Germany is a really important one , as many of the likely routes in Europe would run through Germany , but the German government banned sleeper buses in 2006 .
Yes , there are definitely squat houses in Paris Today , in contemporary paris you can find alternative political and cultural activity in various squats or social centers . These are abandoned buildings ( often government owned ) that have been occupied and re-appropriated by groups of artists , performers , activists , musicians or just people that need a roof over their head . Paris has seen many years of this squatting tradition and though many of them have been closed down , a lot are opening and some have managed to become legitimate and are supported by local municipalities . Some squat houses have been closed due to health and safety but are still available to look at For example the very famous squat " electron libre chez robert " which is situated right in the heart of Paris at 59 rue de Rivoli was once said to be the 4th most visited tourist attraction of Paris and so was closed to the public a couple of years back due to health and safety precautions . However , when walking by rue de Rivoli you can still admire the eccentrically decorated facade of this typical Parisian apartment building . Some Squat Houses can be viewed Les Frigos Many squats are home to the ateliers and workshops of artists , the " Les Frigos " for example is home to about 100 artist ateliers , although nobody lives there . This 80 year old building was once a giant refrigerator producing ice hence its name which means ' the fridges ' . Now it has been re-appropriated by numerous artists and its facade is filled with some impressive graffiti and mural art <URL> an immense building ( about 5000m3 ) with around 15 people living permanently and a collective of about 50 people occupying the ateliers and workshops on the three floors . They have a gallery which is very well known and often shows quite avant-garde work of upcoming or even established artists . As well , they often organize what is called a ' fête du quartier ' ( neighborhood party ) which includes concerts , performances , theatre and an " open scene " where anybody can come up and perform <URL> Not far from " La Générale " , in the 11th is a squat that was opened last year and has been very active in the neighborhood ever since . Installed in an ancient school , " La Petite Rockette " has established a very good name for itself with a variety of open courses ranging from capoiera to IT classes for the elderly . They have a very busy schedule packed with expositions , concerts and theatre . Their impact on the neighborhood is really evident and the fact that everything is run by volunteers makes it all the more impressive . As it is relatively speaking quite a new squat , there is a lot of energy and motivation to keep things active and fresh . Quoted information from <URL> 59 Rivioli is also a well known squat The 59 Rivoli is a building right in the heart of Paris that 's full of nothing but artist 's studios . There 's a gallery on the ground floor that has a new exposition every 2 weeks . In the beginning , it was a squat that was started by artists looking for a place to work , live and show . The artists opened it to the public 6 days a week . It 's now legalized and still open to the public who can come through and visit the artists . Unlike a gallery where you only see a small amount of the artist 's work , at 59 Rivoli , you get to truly enter into an artist 's universe where the work is actually created . Other useful links ; <URL> <URL>
An exhibit featuring the official high-fidelity replica , <URL> ( called Explorer when it was in Florida ) , atop the 747 shuttle carrier aircraft , is currently under construction <URL> at the Johnson Space Center in Houston . The <URL> states that Guests can take the elevator to the top to first enter the Independence using a timed-ticketing system . The first stop is be the flight deck , where guests can see how the astronauts piloted the orbiter through missions . One floor down , guests will see how cramped living conditions were on the mid-deck and walk out into the payload bay to see an actual flown artifact ... . Down one more level , guests enter shuttle carrier aircraft NASA 905 , the largest artifact from the Space Shuttle Program on display . Your next best bet is the brand-new <URL> at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton , Ohio , which features the Crew Compartment Trainer , a life-sized mockup . The exhibit " allows visitors to experience the size and shape of an actual space shuttle orbiter by entering the payload bay and looking into the flight deck and mid-deck levels . " My third suggestion would be the <URL> on display at the Museum of Flight in Seattle , Washington . It does not have the wings , but as its name indicates is a full-sized mockup of the fuselage that was used for astronaut training purposes . <URL> are available for a fee on weekends and public holidays . Other simulators are in the possession of the <URL> in North Florida , the Adler Planetarium in Chicago , and as noted by Kate Gregory , Texas A&amp;M University ; however , it is not clear as of February 2016 if any of these are accessible to the public . Shuttle Inspiration , a life-sized mockup of wood and plastic built by Rockwell in 1972 for its official proposal to build the shuttle , is now owned by the City of Downey , California . There are <URL> around it , but <URL> indicate it is being restored in preparation for a tour . I remember climbing on it on a science day for the Boy Scouts way back in the 1980s ; it gives you a sense of its size and the scale of the crew compartments , but of course there would n't be any genuine artifacts , making it just slightly better than various other independently created replicas that seem to be floating around . The <URL> , as you know , can not be entered by the public : Shuttle Enterprise at the Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum in New York . Shuttle Discovery at the Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles , Virginia Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in Los Angeles . Shuttle Atlantis at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor 's Complex in Florida
You can find it in <URL> ( Korean town ) . Searching Yelp , <URL> matching Sannakji and Shin-Okubo . Take a pick and try . Here 's <URL> of a guy eating that in Shin-Okubo in Tokyo .
Numerous airlines worldwide have inflight WiFi . Within the US , Wifi is available on at certain flights from ( at least ) the following airlines : Air Tran ( All planes ) , Alaska , American Airlines , Delta , JetBlue , SouthWest , United ( p.s. flights only ) , US Airways , Virgin The majority of these airlines use ground-based connections , using technology similar to mobile phone data connections . Most use technology and services from <URL> . A smaller number of airlines use trialing Satellite-based systems , which obviously work better for routes over water ( eg , trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic ) . <URL> is the most common provider in this space . Performance is generally suitable for general web browsing , but not for services such as video streaming . In fact , most services specifically block video streaming services like NetFlix . Internet service is only available above 10,000 feet ( similar to other electronic devices ) .
Yes . Emirates offers nonstop flights from Dubai ( which is on the continent of Asia ) to both Rio de Janeiro ( GIG ) and S & atilde ; o Paulo ( GRU ) . Qatar Airways has nonstop service from Doha to S & atilde ; o Paulo . Near-misses : Etihad has <URL> that it will fly from Abu Dhabi to S & atilde ; o Paulo starting in June 2013 . Turkish Airlines flies from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Istanbul , whose airport is in Europe but is only 16 km from the Asia side of the Bosporus . These appear to be the only nonstop Asia flights . <URL> shows flights from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Seoul ( Korean Air ) and Singapore ( Singapore Airlines ) , but they have stops in Los Angeles and Barcelona respectively .
I remember reading a piece about these recently enough that I thought it was on here . Evidently not . Anyway , there are brands like Vapestick , which at least on their website state that it 's legal to use them onboard . I assume they 'd get sued to infinity and beyond if that was n't true , by now . <URL> : While it is n't illegal to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes , it could definitely raise questions or cause other passengers to be alarmed , so you will need to approach the situation carefully if you plan on getting away with it . However , further down the same page they also note that despite it not being illegal , many airlines do BAN it , so it 's best to check with your airline first . Electronic cigarettes on planes are banned by some airlines operating in the US . In the UK , you can still get away with it in most cases , but there 's no way of knowing for sure . The easiest way to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes without raising any questions is to smoke in the rest room . Personally I find something mildly suspect about how they tell you to ' get away with it ' and the like . If there 's a place in this modern world you really do n't want to be upsetting people , it 's onboard an airplane at 37k feet ...
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
As russian , I should mention other firm , much more popular here in Russian : <URL> They have a good set of offers , including Eco projects with volunteer work ( linked above ) , and more traditional tours . I think you should check the <URL> - if they are offering the climbing tour , they definitely can provide a tour with boat :) Even if they do n't , you can order the guided tour , and take the boat with you . Another interesting site is about <URL> , with schedule of department ( only in Russian ) . Good luck with your tours and welcome to Russia . PS : All of my friends who have visited the Baikal were using their own initiative - order tickets to the Irkutsk , and after that move to the Baikal and camp there in open zones - outdoor tourism is allowed in Russia and very popular from the Soviet times . If you have a friends inside Russia , try to use this option - its much more cheaper and fun :)
Yes there are at least two . How far far east do you want ? Slightly far east : There is a ferry between Vladivostok and Takaoka . There should be a ferry between Vladivostok and Toyama . ( There may be a ferry between Vladivostok and Niigata but reports say it 's discontinued for now ) Extremely far east : There is a ferry between Sakhalin ( Korsakov ) and far northern Hokkaido ( Wakkanai ) . If it 's something off the beaten path you 're looking for I 've been wanting to do the Sahkhalin-Japan crossing for a few years . If it 's something practial you 're looking for that may not be it ( - : Here are some useful links : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Most <URL> indicate that now the Zimbabwean ATMs in Vic Falls dispense USD . <URL> indicates that : Barclays Bank and several of the other banks now have ATM cash withdrawal facilities accepting Visa and Master Cards and dispensing US$ cash . The limit is the same as your limit back home . Charges are $ 1.25 per transaction plus the charge from your local bank which can be 2 to 3 % .
Yes , there are several , and most run multiple services a day . Most will stop along the way though - rather than being a direct service . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Prices and times vary , so it 's best you have a look and choose the best for you and your group .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
end question
start question
Should I book a train ticket in advance when traveling from Ernakulam Junction to Aleppey ?
There are trains between these stations once in every two to three hours.You can show up at the railway station and get a ticket . Buses are more frequent and I would suggest that since the journey is not long .
Have a read of the <URL> section of <URL> . It details exactly what you need to do to get an account ( depending on the credit card you plan to use ) , how to get it verified , and then information on booking the tickets . It 's fiddly , takes a couple of days , but I can confirm that it works as I used it last month to book tickets ! ( You 'll end up using the official booking sites , either IRCTC or ClearTrip depending on your credit card , but the process of registering for them as a foreigner without an Indian mobile phone is fiddly so you 'll need to follow the Seat61 advice ! )
It 's 5 km between the two stations and the best way to get from one to another would be to get a rickshaw ride . It would probably be around 50 to 80 rupees depending on your <URL> . If you do n't have too much luggage , you could opt for a bus , which is , I think 10 rupees . I imagine it is possible to take a train between these stations but according to my search , there are only 5 trains daily , two early morning , one mid-day , two in the evening . Perhaps there are more trains available that are n't listed on the Indian train info website . It 's also possible to take a taxi but the price is probably double the price of an autoricksaw ride .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
I have traveled extensively throughout Argentina , and I would have to say that the siesta ( which does exist in some places ) has never affected anything I wanted to do there . Within Buenos Aires , many smaller shops are closed for a siesta , but then many are not , and large ones certainly are not . Outside of Buenos Aires , the siesta may become a factor , but probably not . It depends on what you are trying to accomplish . For me , when outside of BA , I have always been out and about seeing the sights or exploring town or experiencing the nature during those hours . Obviously transport continues as usual , though in cities you may have a slightly harder time finding a taxi . Longer-haul transport you 'll obviously want to buy tickets for in advance anyway . When it comes to restaurants , most do indeed close in the middle of the day for several hours , but this is more for the changeover from lunch to dinner service . I do n't think this happens until 3 or 4 PM though . Perhaps restaurateurs take a slightly later siesta as some do n't reopen till much later . Many Argentinians seem to have dinner incredibly late . I have seen families with young children sitting down to eat steak dinners at 11:00 PM . But I digress . In sum : it may be a minor factor . But as long as you arrange anything that needs to be arranged in advance , you will be fine . Personally , it has not been an issue for me as much as it has been in , for example , parts of Spain .
Taipei to Keelung is effectively a suburban service , there are trains every 15-20 minutes and reservations are not required ( or even possible for most trains ? ) . And even for long-distance trains , advance reservations are generally not necessary , unless you 're traveling at peak season ( eg . Chinese New Year ) or on some special train ( eg . the Alishan Mountain Railway ) .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
It is possible to book online through <URL> You will be asked to pick the start point which is MTP and end point is UAM .
Short answer : Yes , it appears you can , I would n't . Longer answer . I certainly ca n't find anything that would prevent you from doing so , there 's similar threads over on <URL> and <URL> where people come to the same conclusion . Additionally there 's at least one case of it <URL> . However , as noted it those threads and the comments , you 're going to attract a lot of attention during security where you will have to remove it . Just having a vest may not be that unusual but actually wearing one through security is almost certainly going to get you pulled over for additional screening and questions . If you opt to put it on after security or on the plane itself I can see a few problems . One , although I 've never worn one , I ca n't imagine they 're the most comfortable things to wear and that does n't sound like a recipe for a pleasant flight . Secondly , if it 's obvious it may concern other passengers and the airline would be within their rights to ask you not to wear it . Finally , I 'm assuming these are reasonably bulky and it may actually cause you problems in an emergency situation , another reason the flight crew may ask you to remove it . I know we have a lot of airline staff that post here so maybe one of them can come along and say how they 'd react . You say : It makes sense to wear it in case someone try to hijack the plane . No , it really does n't . The chance of a hijack attempt is astonishingly unlikely ( and even less likely for hijackers to have firearms ) . Even if it did happen is a vest going to help much ? Either the hijackers plan to land and ransom the plane , in which case it generally makes sense to not shoot the passengers . Or they plan to crash the plane in which case a vest is not going to help much . Or the shooting ruptures something causing the plane to depressurize and crash anyway . And , in the extremely mindbogglingly unlikely case that someone starts shooting on a plane you 'll most likely to be sitting down and your head will be more likely to be in the firing line ... unless you 're planning to engage with the hijackers which is a <URL> and is probably just going to get you beaten up or worse . Assuming this is a normal commercial flight then it will be as safe as any other until it lands and the passengers are off-loaded , otherwise it would n't be flying . If you 're really worried about your destination I would choose to put on the vest after landing before leaving the airport but I can think of few places that this would be necessary that would also have normal flights still running to them . Note , my advice might be different if your fear is based on a direct threat to you personally ( i.e. because of who you are or what you do ) rather than just a generically dangerous destination . But in that case you should probably be engaged with private security and asking them these questions .
It depends on the airline . Some airlines require passports and if the only passport you have is South African , then you also need a visa to go with it . However , not all transportation operators between Ireland and the UK require passports for British citizens -- several other forms of ID/documentation can also suffice . There 's a ( non-authoritative , possibly inaccurate ) list <URL> . There should n't be any immigration control on arrival in London , due to the Common Travel Area .
This is going to vary strongly from carrier to carrier because as far as I can tell what really matters is how long it 's been since the interiors were refurbished ( a process airlines do one plane model at a time ) and whether the route is considered important by the airline . Sure , you can make some overall opinions about narrowbody ( one aisle ) vs widebody ( two aisles ) but not much else . Power , inflight entertainment , and even just the upholstery are all going to matter as much as layout . If I was travelling alone on AirCanada , I would go with the 330 because two of the three banks of rows have no " middle seat " . If I was travelling as a family of three , that same difference would cause me to reject the 330 . I guess maybe a family of four would prefer the 330 since you could get two rows of two and have two windows and a little family cluster . However I 'm only 5 ' 4 " and my shortness is all in my legs , so a 31 " pitch does n't scare me . It might be more of an issue for you .
For domestic flights in the US , the cheapest price is almost always on the airline 's website . Additionally , airlines sometimes include other benefits like additional frequent flyer miles , reduced baggage fees etc. for booking directly through their site . Online travel agents such as Expedia , Travelocity , Orbitz etc. can sometimes find flight combinations that you can not book directly through a single airline . This can be useful when there is no single airline ( or airline alliance ) that serves your route . This is not common for domestic trips , but can happen sometimes for international flights between more minor destinations . There is also the convenience of using a single site with all your information already stored instead of having to navigate a different a airline site every time you make a reservation . This can be especially useful for foreign airline websites which are sometimes more difficult to use and can be troublesome with foreign credit cards . Finally , if you book through an online travel site , they become your " agent " and can take care of things such as cancellations , schedule changes etc. . You might find it more convenient to speak to an English speaking customer service agent on a 1-800 number than calling a foreign airline which may not have a toll-free number or even a number at all in the USA .
I have now made the trip and can therefore answer my own question . Yes , they do let you take the earlier Thalys train , but you will not have a seat reservation , so the trip may be less comfortable . Taking the earlier train may be seen as a trade-off between time and comfort . Getting to the earlier train in time was easy as I suspected . It took me less than 10 minutes to get off my plane , walk to the station , pick up my ticket at the NS desk and go down to the platform . I believe I would have been able to make it in time even with a slight delay and/or checked-in luggage . Both the guy at the ticket counter and the staff at the platform told me that I would be allowed on the earlier train if it was not full . The staff on the train told me that there would be no empty seats for part of the trip , but that I could always stand in the restaurant car . I was able to sit down from Schiphol to Rotterdam and from Antwerp to Brussels , but on the Rotterdam-Antwerp leg all seats were reserved and occupied , so I had to stand in the restaurant car for roughly a third of the trip . There were 4 of us standing there , so I was not the only one lacking a seat reservation . I got the impression that this was standard practice and that they would normally always let you on the earlier train , but that there was no explicit guarantee . I can imagine that they reserve the right to decline if for instance the train gets really packed . It was definitely worth it for me to take the earlier train , since I was on a tight schedule and I really did n't mind standing for part of the trip . On the other hand , if you ´ re not in a hurry and you do n't mind spending an extra hour in Schiphol , having a seat reservation would probably make your train ride more enjoyable . Taking the earlier train probably does n't always mean that you have to stand for part of the trip , and you can always ask before you get on if it means you will have to stand .
For train travel stuff your best first resource is Seat61.com , here 's the relevant part for <URL> . From the info there ( <URL> ) it seems you can not book on-line directly , but you can go through a travel agent to have them book the tickets in advance . The trains do sell out , but you do n't need to book months in advance ( unless you want to ) . Passengers are allocated seats and although the train will likely be full it 'll not be packed , the amount of people / space will depend which class you 're travelling in ( there 's pictures and more info on the link ) . I ca n't define the best way to buy the tickets , the cheapest would be to get them at Beijing station a week or so in advance . Anything else will involve paying a cut to an agent . However it sounds like you 're not there for that long so I 'd use one of the agency websites on the page I linked above . One other option is to contact your hotel / hostel and ask if they can arrange tickets for you and have them ready for when you arrive . As the site says large stations will have English speaking staff , plus you can get your hotel to write down the details in Chinese for you . In my experience if a place does n't have English speaking stuff , but has a lot of tourists , there are normal people hanging around willing to help you translate for a small tip ( although be careful about being scammed , etc ) .
Head to the <URL> , find the ticket office ( <URL> ; open Monday-Sunday 05:00 -23:59 ) , and buy your ticket to Canterbury from there . ( I 'm not sure if you can buy the ticket online or not , but personally I 'd just buy it from the station . )
Unless you 're completely fluent , you risk a miscommunication in a legal context . If you 're at all uncertain about communicating to them , you should ask for a translator . In your case , if you 're confident , there 's no harm in addressing them , but if they address you first in your language ( I 'm presuming English ) , it 's best to stick with that rather than changing . Your goal should generally be to only speak when spoken to , and to keep the conversation to a minimum . It 's more efficient for them , and prevents confusion overall .
what is expected of me while I stay there If someone carries your luggage to your room , they expect a tip ( $ 1 to $ 2 per bag ) . It 's also customary to leave a tip for the maid ( $ 1 to $ 3 per day ) . Otherwise , it 's really the other way round : it 's the job of the hotel staff to meet your expectations ( within reasonable bounds ) - you 're paying , after all . what is provided for me and what I should bring The <URL> can give you some idea of what you can expect . The hotel will provide towels , and you can get new ones every day ( nowadays there 's usually a sign that says to leave the towels on the floor if you want new ones ) . Bedsheets will be changed at least once per week , and the room cleaned daily . They usually also provide small packages of things like toothpaste and shampoo , but not necessarily enough for a stay longer than a few days . There may be a clothes cleaning service , but you 'll have to ask for it . Many ( but not all ) hotels have hair driers in every bathroom . You should bring any other appliances you need . Nowadays , many hotels have some sort of internet connection in the rooms , but it may or may not be free . If you have booked the room with breakfast included it will be served in a dining room in a fixed time frame ( e.g. between 7AM and 10AM ) . is there any gotcha that I should keep on the look out for ? There is a " check-in time " ( typically late afternoon ) - you probably can not get into your room before that time when you arrive , as it may still be need to cleaned up after the previous guest . Correspondingly , on the day you leave you have to vacate the room and " check out " at the reception before a certain time ( usually 10AM or 11AM ) - if you do n't , you may have to pay for an extra day . If you arrive before the check-in time or leave significantly after check-out time , most hotels offer to store your luggage for you while you spend the time somewhere else ( at no extra cost ) . Many hotels have a " minibar " in the rooms , which is a small fridge containing various beverages . These usually cost extra ( prices are listed on the fridge door or a leaflet somewhere ) and may be very expensive . But this seems to have gone out of fashion and I 've seen a lot of empty minibars ( which can be useful to keep your own stuff in ) . The maid will come into your room every day to clean up - usually around noon . You can hang a sign on the door handle if you 're in the room and do n't want to be disturbed , and they 'll come back some other time . Theoretically they could steal things from you ; this is very rare , but many hotels have installed a small safe in every room to deposit exceptionally valuable items .
ATMs at the airport are numerous and easy to find . In Thailand , ATMs give you a better exchange rate than changing cash , especially for less-popular currencies like NZD . However , you need to be aware of the fees your home bank may charge ( fixed fee + percent commission ) . On top of this , almost all ATMs in Thailand charge an additional 150 THB fee for international transactions , so it 's better to withdraw larger amounts . Citibank ATMs near Asoke/Sukhumwit BTS Skytrain station do not charge the 150 baht fee ( as of Jan 2012 ) . Second best is probably changing cash to THB in Thailand . Rates at the Bangkok airport are reasonable , but some places in the city offer better rates . Exchange rates for THB in your home country are probably significantly worse than in Thailand ( due to currency export controls ) .
You do not need a return ticket , as long as you can show a proof ( e.g. , letter ) that says come and collect your residency card ; In case the staff ask you about the intent of your trip to Denmark .
end question
start question
Does the ITA Matrix work for all destinations ?
The Matrix does not show flights to points within Cuba . This is because ITA takes a wide reading of the US Treasury regulations that forbid US citizens and companies from arranging or organizing travel to Cuba without authority of the Treasury . ITA 's exclusion of all Cuban points is probably wider than is really required but that is how they implement their legal obligations . I have previously raised this topic with a developer at ITA Software . They foresee that US regulations will become more relaxed in the future and that there is no point in reconsidering their blanket exclusion at the moment .
Well according to <URL> : The nearest Cambodian town is Stung Treng , and the border is a 90-minute speedboat or bus ride away . Note that the border is lightly used , with almost no onward public transport available at the border ( therefore book through transport from Stung Treng to Ban Nakasang for Si Phan Don/Don Det ) and both customs officers and transport providers have a reputation of gouging foreigners , although this seems to have improved recently ( currently both Cambodian and Laos border officials request US$ 1 stamp fee per country ) . Crossing the border ( Oct 2010 ) the Cambodia officers will ask for US$ 1 for exit stamp.You can tell them you do n't have any and they will still stamp it . On the Laos side they will demand $ 2 for entry stamp , if you refuse they will not stamp it , ( you will need the stamp to get out ) , so you have no choice than to pay the bribe . Note if you cross the border by boat , you will have to return by road to the border checkpoint to officiate your arrival ( ie . get your passport stamped ) in Laos . As for top destinations , that 's something we try to avoid a bit - see the [ faq ] , we do n't want to do lists or subjective answers about what makes a destination a ' top ' destination , but <URL> that the Plain of Jars , Wat Phu , the three-layered gilded stupa of Pha That Luang ( national symbol ) and of course the natural wonders - the Mekong delta flatlands in the south .
How does it work ? You go and stay in the queue for the taxi , usually just outside the terminal . When it 's your turn , you get inside the taxi and tell the driver your destination . And than you ride in ( sometimes smelly ) taxi for a while ( for a long while ) and eventually you get to your destination . How can I recognize it ? You wo n't miss it . There will be signs with directions , as well as the sign where the queue starts . Also , there is usually quite a lot of people queuing for the taxi . How can I recognize a legit taxi ? Although it never happened to me , some people may ask you if you need a taxi INSIDE the airport terminal . Avoid them , they are not legit . Head to the exit , search for a man or a woman with a little printer and dressed in uniform . ( credits to @Napolux for the information ) Once you are in official taxi queue you do n't really have to worry about taxi being legit , but you can still check taxi medallion . It will look similar to this and will be attached to the bonnet ( aka hood if you are American ) of the car . Additionally , there will be numbers inside of the taxi . <URL> You can check the number here : <URL> How much will it cost to take the taxi from JFK to Manhattan ? Is there a fixed fare ? There is a fixed fare , JKF to Manhattan is $ 52 + tolls + tips . Payable by card or cash .
The strict answer is no ! There are certain hills that are not accessible because there are no public paths leading to the top . However considering each hill has one or more ' peaks ' , at least one peak is accessible on each hill . I created a <URL> which lists all the hills and has some information about their accessibility .
I found the answer in the in-flight magazine ! Aircalin class as long-haul their flights to Japan and Korea . These flights get the full catering service , as well as an enhanced selection of films on the A330 . Flights to New Zealand , Australia and the surrounding islands are not classed as long haul . However , they do still have some catering , which is nice ! For an evening flight from Australia , it 's something like a wrap or a sandwich , a small salad and a bit of dessert . There 's also a drinks trolley , which is complementary for everything except champagne . On the medium haul flights , if it 's an A330 there are some films , tv shows , music etc , along with quite a bit of information on New Caledonia . If it is n't an A330 , then there 's just a fixed selection of TV shows broadcast .
ITA uses " published " fares , so any travel agent should be able to book them . However , make sure that you 've correctly set the " Sales city " to be a city in the country where you will be buying the ticket , as ticket prices can vary depending on where you purchase them . So if you set the sale city to be SFO , it 's possible that an Australian travel agency will not be able to sell the ticket at the same price . It 's also helpful to give the section that is headed : " Fare construction ( can be useful to travel agents ) " to the travel agent . This will show how the fare has been " priced " , and whilst it 's not needed for simple itineraries , it can help for more complex ones where the trip is potentially being booked as 2 or more separate fares . There are a few exceptions to the above , but they will generally be rare . eg , in some cases travel agents may choose not to sell a particular fare if they believe that certain components are not being priced correctly - for example , if the fuel surcharge is n't being correctly calculated , as it 's possible for the airline to bill them for that after the fact . However these situations are extremely rare .
I contacted visatorussia and got a quick answer to this question : If you do not plan to stay at a hotel , please leave the field blank . A hotel will then be mentioned in your invitation for form 's sake and you will have to indicate the same hotel in your consulate application form . This way you will obtain a tourist visa with no complications and once in Russia , you will be able to choose accommodation in accordance with your convenience .
You 're going to have to dig really deep into the specs of the phone to answer your question . The issue is not the features themselves but the frequency spectrum on which these features are available . You can look at : <URL> <URL> to see what is typically available in Israel . From experience : IPhone 4S from AT&amp;T works like a charm in Israel for both Data and Voice . As far as I know GSM Voice Frequencies used in Israel are : 800 ( old , possibly decommissioned ) , 900 , 1800 , which IPhone and most Androids support . The rest you will have to find out . Now if you wanted to use CDMA , like Verizon does in Israel , roaming does n't work on Cellcom 's network as far as last information I have .
Georgia 's Reforms Associates <URL> called FactCheck <URL> : Conclusion Our research has established that in Georgia certain professions have nationality restrictions due to national and public interests . In order to bring in a verdict , we must also take international experience into consideration . Both strict and lenient , there are certain restrictions and limitations in Europe , the US and CIS countries for granting a work permit to foreign citizens . There are , however , no such limitations in Georgia and any alien can start working in Georgia without any permission ( only a temporary residence permit is necessary after the visa has expired ) . Compared to the current situation , the initiated draft bill regulates the immigration policy of the country . Based upon the abovementioned , we conclude that the statement of Paata Kvizhinadze : " Any foreign citizen could work in our country without any restrictions or quotas . This practically never happens in Europe , the US or CIS countries , " is TRUE . Since the old law allowing for 360 days visas has been <URL> , it is highly likely that there are no employment restrictions for citizens of visa-on-arrival countries . The <URL> also fails to list any restrictions on people arriving to Georgia on tourist visas .
It certainly can be done -- is it reasonable , well that depends on your definition ... You 're going to have two major issues here . Visas You likely need visas for the places you 're visiting ( Russia , Mongolia , China ) , and they will need proof of onwards travel . You 'll likely have to get a specialist to help anyway and the overall visa validity is going to limit your options . Tickets If you do n't speak the local language getting tickets in some smaller places may be problematic -- this does n't mean it 's impossible with some help . However , let me quote from <URL> : But for travel between Russia and Mongolia or China , here 's a reality check : Demand exceeds supply for the two weekly Moscow-Beijing Trans-Mongolian &amp; Trans-Manchurian trains ( trains 4 &amp; 20 ) , also the weekly Moscow-Ulan Bator train ( train 6 ) , especially in the busy May-September peak season . Russian Railways opens bookings to travel agencies 60 days before departure , and Russian travel agencies buy up all the tickets to resell them at a mark-up . Station staff may therefore tell you that these trains are all sold out even if you went to the station the moment bookings opened to the public 45 days before departure , although you may be able to buy tickets if you called one of the agencies . If you want to use these trains , you should pre-book through an agency as shown in option 2 or 3 below . Ulan Bator to Beijing is also a pinch-point , as there are only 2 trains a week , so this too is best booked in advance through an agency . Which does n't mean you ca n't book through an agency from wherever you happen to be staying , but that may prove difficult . You 'll also see that trains are infrequent so if you do n't manage to get on a train be prepared to be stuck wherever you are for a few more days ( and have to pay the costs associated with that ) . Is it going to cost more ? Probably not , if you manage to get tickets at each station . Otherwise it 's difficult to say , prices seem reasonably fixed but if you 're dealing with agencies and booking with short notice it may inflate the price . So , possible -- certainly . Reasonable ? That entirely depends on what sort of traveler you , how much time , money and flexibility you have .
After a quick look on PubMed , I found a meta-study on the effects of melatonin in various contexts , published in Nutrition Journal ( it 's open access , so the article is freely accessible without any kind of academic subscription ) . It makes a " weak recommendation in favor of melatonin use for rebalancing the sleep-wake cycle in people with jet lag . " Here are the meta-study 's results concerning jet lag ( emphasis mine ) : Eight [ 37 -- 44 ] RCTs with 972 total participants characterized melatonin use for counteracting jet lag . Almost all of the studies were of high ( + ) quality [ 37 , 39 -- 44 ] , with the exception of one poor ( − ) quality study [ 38 ] , which favored neither melatonin nor control , despite a large sample size ( n = 339 ) . Of the seven high ( + ) quality studies , one [ 40 ] favored neither melatonin nor control . The remaining six [ 37 , 39 , 41 -- 44 ] RCTs favored melatonin , including two [ 42 , 43 ] large studies ( n = 320 [ 44 ] and n = 160 [ 41 ] ) and one [ 39 ] which noted a limitation that melatonin increased tiredness the next morning . Melatonin appears to be relatively safe based on the six [ 38 , 39 , 41 -- 44 ] studies that reported adverse events , citing occasional , but not serious adverse events and interactions . Based on the high quality and favorable results reported , the [ subject matter experts ] concluded that in a jet lagged population , further research may have an impact on the confidence in the estimate of the effect , and as such , provide a weak recommendation in favor of melatonin use for rebalancing the sleep-wake cycle in people with jet lag . Source : Costello , R. B. , Lentino , C. V. , Boyd , C. C. , O’Connell , M. L. , Crawford , C. C. , Sprengel , M. L. , &amp; Deuster , P. A. ( 2014 ) . The effectiveness of melatonin for promoting healthy sleep : a rapid evidence assessment of the literature . Nutrition Journal , 13 , 106 . <URL>
Kuwait 's system is similar to what has been deployed in the UAE . It allows you to apply online for the visa , and then collect it ( rather , get it stamped or entered ) when you arrive at the border . The process is outlined at <URL> ; along with the restrictions and approvals . You can apply on your own ( start <URL> ) , you do n't need a sponsor to apply on your behalf . The " E " in the e-visa means that you are no longer given a paper document or required to carry one with you .
According to the <URL> , the festival takes place at many different locations around the city : <URL> So you would have to go to different streets/stadiums depending on which day you 'll be there . There is also a detailed plan of the route which is incredibly useful since Via 40 is very long . <URL>
As far as I remember , there was a separate entry for mothers with infants . They would wait at the main entrance ( probably were given a specific time slot ) and I 've heard that this kind of darshan is hassle-free for the whole family with infants . See if <URL> helps .
I am afraid there is no temporary ( nonimmigrant ) visa that allows you to be a tourist and work at the same time ( except for H-1B , H-2B ) , and by work I mean getting paid by any US employer . As a Dutch citizen , you can enter under the visa waiver program which allows you enter for tourism/business/medical reasons only . You will not be allowed to work . To work in the US temporarily you need to have a H-1B visa , to obtain that you need to have a job offer from a US employer . If you managed to get that then you are allowed to work with this employer only and changing the employer is another story . So I do not think this fits your needs . Regarding WWOOF , their page makes it clear that <URL> . Anyway , since WWOOF is not a paid work neither volunteering it will be ok to become a WWOOFer with your tourist visa , according to their website : WWOOF is an opportunity to visit farms affiliated with our network for a cultural and educational exchange . Most people outside the United States who come WWOOFing use a holiday or tourist visa . Although many of the hosts on our network are associated with organic lifestyles and sustainability , it is important to note that persons associated with WWOOF-USA are travelers experiencing a wide variety of sustainable living situations and are not " workers " or " working " for wages or other remuneration in the United States . Bottom line , you need to change your plans a little , removing the " working in restaurants " part will make your trip possible and legal with a tourist visa , other option would be obtaining an immigrant visa which takes time and not as easy as nonimmigrant visa . For more information : <URL> .
The Matrix does not show flights to points within Cuba . This is because ITA takes a wide reading of the US Treasury regulations that forbid US citizens and companies from arranging or organizing travel to Cuba without authority of the Treasury . ITA 's exclusion of all Cuban points is probably wider than is really required but that is how they implement their legal obligations . I have previously raised this topic with a developer at ITA Software . They foresee that US regulations will become more relaxed in the future and that there is no point in reconsidering their blanket exclusion at the moment .
This is a standard clause found on tourist visas for many countries . What it basically means is you can not legally seek employment within Australia or its territories or be employed by any entity in Australia and receive income from it . So checking your work email or working offline or even online for their employer outside Australia does n't violate the terms of their visa . But IMHO violates the term vacation .
You need an UK entry clearance before you leave Denmark or your carrier will refuse to board you . It does not matter that you have a Danish work permit , it is entirely governed by what type of passport you hold . For your question about the difference between ' visa ' and ' entry clearance ' . An ' entry clearance ' is what they will put in your passport if your application is successful . Americans , Canadians , etc who apply at the border get an ' entry certificate ' , or ' leave to enter ' . For your question about getting a long-term general visitor visa , if you are successful they will give you one valid for 6 months . If you build up about 5 or 6 of those AND you show them a viable need for visiting the UK over a long period of time , they will consider a longer term . A long-term visitor for ordinary tourism will not work . Adding : take note that if you apply for a long-term visitor visa , they will keep the extra money you paid and issue you the standard 6 month visa anyway .
Windows 10 has added an update in the latest version allowing users to see where the photo came from . In the top-left corner of each lock screen there is now a short description of the location . Clicking the description opens a Bing search with the location 's name .
When you take an overnight train in Russia and you book a sleeping compartment ( there are two classes of these ) , the compartments come with a mattress and a pillow . For the additional option you have asked about , , an attendant will come around and deliver a bottom sheet , top sheet , a pillow case , and a blanket . It 's impeccably sanitary and well-advised for this reason . If you do not purchase the option you get the standard mattress and uncased pillow , less sanitary . You do not get the previous passenger 's stuff ( except his detritus ) ; previously used bed clothing gets collected by the attendant .
end question
start question
How can I make a wire transfer from Japan ?
Ah , MUFJ , that mutant offspring of semi-insolvent Japanese banks . You 're in for some fun times ! The sanest way to approach this is to go to the bank branch and ask , they 'll rustle up somebody with enough English to help you out . The Japanese keyword is <URL> ( gaikokusōkin ) . A few pointers : Not all branches handle remittances , so pick a nice big branch that does . See <URL> ( Jp only ) . Bring lots of ID , both personal and bank-related . Make sure you know your " anshin bangō " security code and can sign your signature the way you did when you opened your account . Find out everything you possibly can about the bank account you 're sending to . This includes SWIFT codes , branch names , branch addresses , etc. . Expect it to take forever . Seriously , if you 're out of there in less than an hour , it 's a good day . Expect to pay <URL> for the privilege , more if you 're sending lots .
Once in winter/spring , I traveled to <URL> by public transport . That was no big deal : They have a regular train station . I booked my ticket in advance using <URL> , because I was traveling from Germany . Getting to the top of the mountains from Kitzbühel is easy : Being a ski resort , they have a good infrastructure of cable cars . But , in fact , hiking up is more fun . Concerning prices , if it 's similar to Germany , it 's a good idea to book long distance trains in advance , because tickets then usually are cheaper . For regional trains , however , I expect it does n't matter when you book . According to Wikipedia 's German <URL> ( as of June 2013 ) : Long distance trains : RJ , ICE , ÖBB-IC , IC , EC , EN , D , IC-BUS Regional trains : R , REX , S , EZ
A Semi-double bed is around 120 to 140cm ( 47 to 55in ) , depending on the hotel . As for it being suitable for two people , that depends on how close you are : I shared a semi-double bed at Mystays Asakusa-Bashi with a friend . If it had n't been my long time friend , I would have been very uncomfortable as you WILL end up touching/brushing the other person while sleeping , even if you do n't move much . Here 's an image of such a bed in Asakusa-Bashi . The size here is 120cm . <URL> If it 's your significant other , you should be fine .
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
While what constitutes a " best " spot is subjective , here are some popular options : <URL> This road is located in Tokyo , between the Gaienmae and Aoyama-Itchome stations . The best time to visit is from mid-november to early december . <URL> <URL> While this doesnt feature only Ginkgo trees , you can enjoy the view in this traditional japanese garden . <URL> <URL> The temple grounds feature many Ginkgo trees , plus you get so visit one of the biggest temples around . <URL> The lesson here is that there are n't many dedicated spots for Ginkgo trees , but they are more or less omnipresent in Japan . Visit during the end of november and you are sure to get your fill of beautiful colors . <URL> <URL>
OK , here 's the answer . Three hours after making my booking I 've received the following email from National Express : So the answer is to wait a few hours while they issue a ticket .
I 'm assuming you 're talking about The Kyushu region ( including okinawa and the islands ) I recently returned from ishigaki ( an island in the Kyushu region ) . We did snorkelling and scuba out there . Most dive schools will not take Non Japanese newbies . As we do n't speak japanese we found an excellent english speaking dive school . If you 're looking to go Snorkelling through a dive school i 'd reccomend Dive school Umicoza . A Day 's Snorkelling will cost 8,400 yen . This includes : hotel pickup equipement rental boat cover Experienced Guides lunch photos of your dive Drop off at your Hotel I went in september and they had 2 english speaking guides ( one also spoke chinese , and french ) . We did Scuba and snorkelling with them and the marine life was spectacular on both . The guides were awesome and it was just an amazing day . Their website is here <URL> If you 'd just like to go to the dive site without going through a dive school ( i really do n't recommend this ) then here 's a link to it on google maps . <URL> The sea temperature will be fine in april as ishigaki 's sea temperature ranges from 21 ° C in winter to 29 ° C in summer Let me know if you have any more questions .
While a full yawn is best , simulating the movement your jaw makes in a yawn is enough to pop your ears ( and often simulating a yawn makes a real one happen anyway ) If you have a cold , or if you let the pressure build up a lot it can be difficult to get the eustachian tubes to open , so in those instances I hold my nose , close my mouth and gently try and blow . This is one you want to try gently , as blowing too hard could actually damage your ear drums , so practice doing it with relaxed cheeks ( almost as if you were playing a trumpet . ) You can also just try one eardrum at a time , which can make this easier and safer .
How an airlines handles musical instruments like guitars depends on the one you are flying with . Some require you to put it into check-in luggage . Some allow you to carry it on-board ; either by paying an excess baggage fee or by buying an extra seat ( perhaps at a discounted rate ) . Many low-cost airlines either force you to check-in or buy a full-cost seat for it . With low-cost airlines , you also may need to book the music instrument upgrade online before your flight , otherwise you end up paying at excess baggage rates at the airport . There are very few airlines who offer a free seat ( even to economy class fliers ) if the flight has seats available . One airlines that does this in the international sector is <URL> .
Ok , the comments have given a suggestion about booking another berth , which is impractical if you are concerned that the baby may actually roll over . Some practical tips to consider You can either book a first class or a 2-tier AC berth ( if you are travelling 3 tier AC already and are considering a second ticket for the kid , it may work out cheaper to do this ) , and ensure that you get a lower berth ( which is tough unless you book early ) , the berth in a 2-tier AC or First AC or First Class compartments are much wider than the one in other classes and can give enough room for the kid If you really want this substantiated you can see ( <URL> ) which has pictures and detailed measurements . If you like to be a bit bold and can convince co-passenger the way I did with a year old daughter you can look to replicate what I did . I used to make a cradle in between the seats , I will have to draw up something to explain ( and kindly forgive my horrible drawing ) , you tie a sufficiently long piece of cloth i.e. a saree or something that 's circa 2 metres long and tie it up to the top berth , since the train only shakes sideways this would actually provide a very comfortable journey to the kid ( if he is used to sleeping in those age old cradles made with a similar style at home it would be even better ) . <URL> The third option is to get two lower berths and actually carry a small flat cradle into the compartment and make the baby sleep in it , like this : <URL> I have only thought about this never did this for my travels . Happy sleeping
I could n't find anything in Japan - my Japanese is n't that great , and search results are mainly about an apparently new fad called " water jump " , which seems to consist of riding a snowboard down a rather small ramp into a lake or pool . Here 's two event agencies offering two-day ski jumping lessons in Germany or Austria : <URL> <URL>
When I traveled to Greece 2 years ago I traveled between Athens/Santorini/Mykonos / Ikaria . We bought our tickets when we arrived in Greece . I had the same problem as you , where there was n't a really good website to purchase tickets from in the US , but things may have changed since back then . I did end up use this website <URL> to find out ferry schedules . I just found the sites of two ferries we used a couple times when we were over there . Seems like their websites have improved drastically . <URL> <URL> Take note that some routes are a lot faster than others . This is usually because the boats make more frequent stops or are just faster boats in general . If you do n't book online , there are many travel agencies in Athens and Piraeus that will book tickets for you , you can typically just ask a local where you can buy a ferry ticket . We never ran into a ferry selling out , but of course you may experience something different . With regards to booking deck tickets , it can be cool the first couple of minutes , but can get old very quickly when the water starts splashing around if the water is particularly choppy that day . Also , some ferry decks do not have seating so you have to make yourself comfortable on the deck itself . Also if the sun is out and beating down on you , it can make for a tough trip .
Google maps seems to do the trick . You first select your Route description ( e.g. <URL> ) . Once you have your route , type shell in the upper search field and Google will show you Shell in the <URL> of your route . EDIT : The second link does n't show both the route and shell stations integrated , but this is a screendump on how the result would look
There are a few ways to visit Antarctica . Remember that nothing is ever guaranteed and it 's quite possible with weather that you might not make it there . Cruises : Larger cruises often will get you close but not to the land . You 'll have the comforts of cruising . These big ships may be regulated soon . Smaller ships will often let you get right onto land . Costs start at least $ 5k ( for the ultra cheap ) . Tailored Expeditions : Many companies run specialty expeditions which let you visit Antarctica exactly how you want . Prices are extremely high for this . Airborne : You get to fly over Antarctica . This is the more ecological way to see it but does n't have the same experience as actually walking on it . This is also the cheapest option .
I 'm not brilliantly positioned to answer this , but since nobody else has ... So I walked a small section of the route back in 2000 or so ( Sounkyo Onsen to Kurodake and back ) as a day trip , just enough to realize that it 's a pretty " serious " national park and you 'll want to be well prepared for a serious hike : As you can see , the problem is not that it 's 55 km long , it 's that you 're going up and down and up and down in the mountains , exposed to the wind , rain , snow and ice ( there 's no forest cover on the plateau ) -- the picture above is the view from Kurodake on a relatively warm late summer day ! So if you have no previous experience , I 'd hook up with somebody else or try out a shorter section of the route . Asahidake to Kurodake can be done in two days with lodging en route , so you do n't need to carry a tent etc. . This guide looks rather useful : <URL> And for what it 's worth , his opinion is that 5 days for the full traverse is pushing it , and most people are better off budgeting 6 or even 7 .
Ah , MUFJ , that mutant offspring of semi-insolvent Japanese banks . You 're in for some fun times ! The sanest way to approach this is to go to the bank branch and ask , they 'll rustle up somebody with enough English to help you out . The Japanese keyword is <URL> ( gaikokusōkin ) . A few pointers : Not all branches handle remittances , so pick a nice big branch that does . See <URL> ( Jp only ) . Bring lots of ID , both personal and bank-related . Make sure you know your " anshin bangō " security code and can sign your signature the way you did when you opened your account . Find out everything you possibly can about the bank account you 're sending to . This includes SWIFT codes , branch names , branch addresses , etc. . Expect it to take forever . Seriously , if you 're out of there in less than an hour , it 's a good day . Expect to pay <URL> for the privilege , more if you 're sending lots .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
<URL> / transfer is simply opposite to public transportation , unlike buses for example where it is public to anyone , private transport means having your private non-shared transportation method like renting a car , motorbike , taxi or private jet :)
end question
start question
Can we undergo US Immigration checks at Heathrow ?
According to the <URL> there is currently no US Immigration preclearance location in the UK . That does n't mean that there wo n't be any in the future as : Beginning in 2015 , the United States intends to enter into negotiations in order to expand air preclearance operations to new locations . Now as far as clearing immigration and customs in Miami within 2 hours it is definitely possible but it depends on whether or not the terminal is busy or not and whether your ticket to Gainesville is on the same ticket as the rest of your trip or not in that case airline should facilitate your trip through immigration and customs in the US to make your flight .
Yes , most Icelandic people speak very good English , you will be fine . Their language is indeed called Icelandic , and is fascinating in regards to its history . From wikipedia : The oldest preserved texts in Icelandic were written around 1100AD . The majority of these texts are poems or laws , preserved orally for generations before being written down . The most famous of these , written in Iceland from the 12th century onward , are without doubt the Icelandic Sagas , the historical writings of Snorri Sturluson ; and eddaic poems . With regards to learning a few Icelandic phrases , as with anywhere , people appreciate non-native speakers making the effort . " Takk " for " Thanks " is an easy one for starters . Some of the pronunciation is nigh on impossible for English speakers who have n't been exposed to it before , so do n't think you 'll attain even a basic grasp without a lot of study ! Their <URL> scheme is charming , and you may also be interested in the <URL> and how people derive their <URL> . " Z " was removed from the alphabet in 1973 .
There were a bunch of changes to US airport security screening after 9/11 . I 'm not sure if there 's a comprehensive list anywhere , but here are a few highlights : What Did n't Change You still walk through a metal detector Airlines generally do n't want their passengers starting gun , knife , or chain fights on the airplane . For one thing you might damage the aircraft , and for another it 's REALLY hard to get blood out of the seats and carpet . Also a survey of flight crews reveals that they overwhelmingly prefer not being shot or stabbed while working . Your carry-on still gets X-rayed The airlines want to know what 's in your bag - they 're not only concerned about weapons ( see above ) but also other dangerous or prohibited items . ( Sorry , but <URL> unless it 's already been made into a crocodile-skin bag . Your checked luggage is still subject to X-ray and/or hand inspection See above for carry-ons . A survey of baggage handlers reveals that they prefer not to be bitten by crocodiles that escaped into the cargo hold . The Sensible Changes <URL> are more stringent It 's been a LONG while since you could run up to the counter 10 minutes before departure and say " I need to be on that plane , print me a boarding pass ! I 'll pay in cash ! " ( that era predates me ) , but now the ID you present needs to match the name your ticket is under . Only ticketed passengers are allowed into the secure area As <URL> this is standard practice in some other countries . The " Explosive Trace Detection " machine gets used more There are several models of this device , the most common use a swab or a " puff chamber " and a spectrometer to look for chemicals normally associated with explosives . These devices are pretty accurate and good at what they do , and because effectively cleaning explosives residue from clothing and equipment is non-trivial they 're a nice tool in the screening arsenal . There are " whole body " trace detectors that blow a column of air around a passenger to check for explosive traces , but I 've not encountered one myself . I have however had a lot of technical equipment swabbed . The baggage X-Rays are WAY better now Many airports had older-generation X-Ray systems for examining carry-ons and checked baggage . These were single-density X-Ray systems with low-resolution sensors that produce a pretty poor image . I have n't seen one of those at an airport in years - the new systems are variable-density ( they can deal with a mix of things inside your bag ) and much higher resolution . I 'm sure the old machines would eventually have all been retired and replaced , but the pace of adoption was probably accelerated . " Random " enhanced screenings ( ) Whether or not it 's truly random , some portion of passengers receive <URL> - an extra-thorough ( and somewhat more time-consuming ) screening process . Diverting some percentage of passengers through this process is theoretically an effective deterrent ( though in practice if you 're planning something nefarious and discover you 've been selected for secondary screening there are several opportunities for you to abort your nefarious plan and avoid capture ) . The less-sensible changes Your laptop probably ca n't stay in its bag Unless you have a TSA-approved laptop bag you must remove your laptop from its carry-on bag and place it in an X-Ray Transparent bin for screening . This is " less sensible " as it 's time-consuming , but there is logic behind it ( radiopaque items in some laptop bags make it difficult to discern " normal laptop-looking bits " from " bomb-cleverly-disguised-as-a-laptop bits " . Backscatter X-Ray or Pat-Down of passengers Perhaps the TSA 's most controversial policy , frequently derided as " the nudie-scanner " and " freedom gropes " , and plagued by stories of misses ( where prohibited items made it through the checkpoint despite the supposedly-thorough screening elements ) . <URL> the backscatter x-ray devices have been largely ( if not entirely ) replaced with millimeter wave scanners - same concept , but theoretically lower risk ( less ionizing radiation exposure ) and possibly slightly better resolution . While I consider them to be largely security theater in the sense that they 're not as good ( cost , time , or detection rate ) as the TSA would have us believe there is some merit to employing the techniques . Our indiscriminate and universal use of them is what lands them in my " less sensible " bin . The " Are you serious ? This is pointless ! " changes Please remove your shoes Yes , there was once a time when you did n't have to smell the feet of your fellow passengers . But then <URL> and that ruined it for everyone . This lands in the " Are you serious ? " bin because not only is it protecting us from yesterday 's threat , it is also full of loopholes : Children under 12 do n't have to take their shoes off , nor do passengers who go through the " TSA Pre-Check " screening path ( which is sometimes opened up to non Pre-Check passengers if the main screening path is backed up ) . Sorry , no water bottles More specifical
Google Maps has a pretty good knowledge of the London public transport . <URL> will show you several options , which will all have you arriving before 6:40 am on Saturday ( tomorrow -- although any Saturday ought to be roughly the same ) . The one that looks the most attractive to me is the last one , which is to take the 295 bus ( although 283 may be just as good ) to Hammersmith , then the Picadilly line to LHR . It includes only 6 minutes of walking . On the London Tube web site you can see the <URL> as well as <URL> . Whether a strike-caused outage would be posted early enough to help you make your travel plans , I have no idea . I suggest waking up a bit early and checking , just in case . Then at least you 'll have the option to call a taxi in time , if the worst should happen .
Flights on UIA ( PS ) from TBS land at terminal D. Flights on BA to LHR depart from terminal D. PS and BA do have an interlining agreement * , so it should be possible to buy this as a single ticket . As stated by Roman R , the airport provides <URL> information which shows only a security control for transferring passengers and a transfer desk to collect onward boarding passes . BA also provide a <URL> and in most cases it is possible to use a mobile boarding pass . Alternatively it may be possible to check in online and print the BA boarding pass in advance . * Although expertflyer says BA and PS have an e-ticket interlining agreement with each other , I ca n't actually bring up any ticket other than YY coded ones . ( ps . this is/was the only BA tagged question with no answer ! )
Yes Air China has <URL> counters at <URL> Terminal 2 . I 'm not sure why you 're asking about SkyTeam as Air China is a Star Alliance <URL> , but Terminal 2 is also the one used for <URL> member airlines .
To find a specific answer , your best bet is to use the <URL> . Tell it exactly when you want to leave , how fast your walk , if you want to minimise walking and/or changes ( eg due to baggage ) , and it 'll give you an answer In general through , from Covent Garden to Heathrow , there are two options . One is slightly quicker , one is a lot cheaper . Option one - board a Heathrow bound Piccadilly Line train . There 's roughly one every 7 minutes for most of the day . Take that all the way to Heathrow , should take just under an hour ( 50-55 minutes once your onboard ) . Then , walk to your terminal , allow about 10 minutes . It 's a zone 1 - zone 6 single , unless you have a travel card . Using an Oyster card , off-peak it 's # 3 for the journey . Alternately , make your way to Paddington Station , then take the Heathrow Express . From Paddington there 's 4 trains an hour , journey time of about 15 minutes to T1/T2/T3 , 20 minutes to T5 , absolute age to T4 because you have to change ... From Covent Garden to Paddington , there 's two options . You can either take a Piccadilly Line train to Piccadilly Circus and change to Bakerloo line . Or , if you do n't have too much luggage , enjoy a pleasant 10 minute walk from Covent Garden down to Charring Cross , then 10 minutes on the Bakerloo up to Paddington . I 'd say that with changes and waits for trains , allow about 30-35 minutes either way from Covent Garden to being at the Heathrow Express platform in Paddington . As such , the Heathrow Express option is n't looking much quicker , but is looking about # 20 more expensive !
It sounds like you are referring to kilishi , which is very thin strips of meat spiced and sun-dried . If it were from another country , the answer would be maybe . Commercially packaged shelf-stable beef products are <URL> . However , there are exceptions : It will be very difficult to bring any sort of meat from Nigeria into the US because of the incidence of foot and mouth disease in that country . The US does not allow import of meats from countries having issues with foot and mouth disease or mad cow disease ( BSE ) at all . As a general rule - if goods are cooked and in shelf-stable ( does not require refrigeration ) packaging such as cans or other hermetically sealed containers AND they are not from a country affected with various diseases such as Avian influenza , Mad Cow disease , Swine Fever , Exotic Newcastle Disease , etc. , they may be admissible . In any event , if you are bringing food into the US you must declare it . If you are looking for something similar , try biltong . It is usually sliced thicker than kilishi , though . And you can make either at home ; many recipes can be found online for both kilishi and biltong .
A lot depends on how far you live from the airport or train station - I have a much larger " train is faster " radius because the airport is on one side of " the big city " and I am on the other - and there are train stations on my side . The big difference is in the time to clear security and wait at the gate . I have read suggestions you arrive at the airport 3 hours before your flight . For domestic flights I go with 2 hours , even less when I know I can fast-track the lines , but that 's up to you . For the train , you just need to get there before the train . The second difference is that airports are usually 30 minutes or more from downtown , while train stations are downtown - depending on where you 're headed , that can be a big deal . I count that as another hour 's time in the train 's favour . And finally , there is a fair amount of " ceremony " in the actual departure and arrival of a plane - safety speeches and checks before departure , taxi-ing , waiting for takeoff , possible circling of the airport on arrival , more taxi-ing , waiting for the ground crew - that can add up to another hour . For me , the train has a five hour headstart on the plane , because on top of all that I can get to the train station quicker than the plane , and it 's already partway to my destination . That means I can go about 400 miles before the plane would be faster . This covers a fair amount of where I need to go , so I take the train quite often .
US immigration does usually let family members join US citizens in the citizen line . This does not extend to friends . As always , there 's a possibility you 'll get away with it , but if not , the non-US citizen will be sent to the back of the other line . Source : I 'm a UK citizen with US citizen family . Depending on the terminal you enter , whether your friend has an ESTA and has visited the US before , they may be eligible to use the kiosks that allow quicker immigration now .
According to the <URL> there is currently no US Immigration preclearance location in the UK . That does n't mean that there wo n't be any in the future as : Beginning in 2015 , the United States intends to enter into negotiations in order to expand air preclearance operations to new locations . Now as far as clearing immigration and customs in Miami within 2 hours it is definitely possible but it depends on whether or not the terminal is busy or not and whether your ticket to Gainesville is on the same ticket as the rest of your trip or not in that case airline should facilitate your trip through immigration and customs in the US to make your flight .
Unless you 're completely fluent , you risk a miscommunication in a legal context . If you 're at all uncertain about communicating to them , you should ask for a translator . In your case , if you 're confident , there 's no harm in addressing them , but if they address you first in your language ( I 'm presuming English ) , it 's best to stick with that rather than changing . Your goal should generally be to only speak when spoken to , and to keep the conversation to a minimum . It 's more efficient for them , and prevents confusion overall .
Oh , I basically did this in July , from mid-afternoon until late evening when my flight out happened . Assuming you do n't want to just grab a cab and go down to the waterfront ( it 's nice and there are cafes and the market ) , the airport does n't have much . At all . Landside You have a choice of two Costa Coffees , and a small restaurant place with some Indian-like food ( much Omani cuisine is inspired by Indian food ) . It 's nothing fancy . That 's it . The rest of the shops are cellphone sim card stalls , and care-hire , basically . Airside Going through check-in , you get to go upstairs , and this is bigger - but now you 're going to have Wendy 's , Subway , and that style - plus one small restaurant that serves shish kabob and wraps . And souvenir shops and exchange places . It was pretty limited . They also claimed to have free wifi , but it was n't working when I was there . All day . My recommendation - landside , get into that restaurant ( it 's opposite the small Costa ) , and settle in at one of the booths . Each booth has a powerpoint , and you can just chill and watch movies on your device or listen to music , while people watching a bit and occasionally buying a drink . Otherwise though , no , I did a lot of laps walking , but there 's really not much else to see . If you can , you 're far better off adventuring outside , even if for a short time . Town is pretty close - go see the new mosque at night , it 's quite a sight !
I think I found the answer . Most airport has this facility where you can drop-off ( store ) your carry one and pick it up before flight . There is usually a fee for it . <URL> 9 pounds/day <URL> 20 durham/day
<URL> details these rules and the needed times . From this , we can learn the minimum connecting time depends on the terminal you arrive/leave and it varies from 1h10 to 2h . And yes , you will need to go through customs and claim your luggage , and then check your luggage again . As for the Vladivostok airport ( VVO ) rule you mention , unless I missed something , it says you should fill a migration card " at the entrance to the Russian Federation " , not specifically at this airport , so in your case it will most likely happen at Moscow airport ( SVO )
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
The answer depends on 4 things : How you are getting to the airport What airline you 're flying with How frequent the flights on that route are How good your travel insurance is If you have great travel insurance , are on a route with one flight roughly ever hour , and are just hopping on the tube for 20 minutes to get there , then arriving just before you 're airline 's cut-off time is probably fine . If you 're taking two trains a bus on a 3 + hour journey , with travel insurance that is n't very good about missed departure compensation , to take a once-a-day flight , I 'd say aim to be there at least 3 hours before The close of baggage check and at-desk checkin times varies between airlines . BA , for example , have a <URL> , AA <URL> , so check with your specific airline to see what they require . Security queues can be bad at Heathrow , but not as bad as you find at some other airports world-wide . I often grumble about the Heathrow ones , but frankly I 've had worse at JFK and Seattle recently ! If you 're a frequent traveller who knows how to properly unpack your bag , take out liquids properly , already has liquids in a suitable bag etc , you should be fine within the minimum checkin times . For less frequent travellers , I 'd say 1 hour should be OK . The question then is more about possible delays getting to the airport . You need to leave enough time so that if you get delayed , you wo n't miss the flight . The 2-3 hour figure tends to be more about that , at least for Heathrow . Think about what could go wrong , what 's likely to go wrong , backup options , delay lengths etc. . Then , check your travel insurance , and see what they require . If your travel insurance wo n't cover missed departures due to delays getting to the airport , go for 3 hours minimum unless really close . If your travel insurance says you must have aimed for 2.5 hours before if they 'll cover it , obviously leave 2.5 hours ! Finally , there are shops airside in T3 , and some restaurants , so it 's not the end of the world if you get there with lots of time to spare . There are also some lounges you can pay to enter ( the No. 1 Traveller lounge in T3 is very nice , for example ) . If you have status or are travelling in a premium cabin , that could be a reason to get there extra early so you can enjoy the lounge more ! There is no universal answer
No . USA immigration and customs is always at your first stop in the USA , except if you are departing from an airport with <URL> . Brussels is not one of those . The JFK terminals are connected by a <URL> .
If your itinerary is DUB-LHR-LAX , then that Dublin and Shannon have US Pre-Clearance facilities is pretty much irrelevant . Your DUB-LHR flight , while not technically domestic , is essentially similar since you should n't have to enter the UK during transit . You will clear US Immigration and Customs at LAX . You should expect to get any required forms * from the cabin crew sometime during the LHR-LAX flight . * CBP has notably automated their processes now . BA , presumably , will play a video before arrival that describes the process and what travelers are exempt from what procedures .
When they come out of the T3 baggage collection area into the main T3 arrivals area , directly in front of them in the centre of the floor will be a large " Information " booth . To the right of that , there 's a large sign that says " Meeting Point " . In the absence of any other information , it would be the logical place to meet . The signs are yellow with a dark circle and four inward pointing arrows . They are either stand-up as shown in the indicative photo , or they hang from the ceiling . For your other question : there is a single exit from the baggage claim area . It 's on the ground floor of T3 . And yes , you could wait for them at this exit also . Last tip : if you are taking the tube , have a backup plan in case there 's a signal failure enroute ...
end question
start question
Visit Northern Ontario from Toronto without a car ?
Your best bet for public transport access to the Ontario North is <URL> . They run scheduled buses from Toronto to the north , including Temagami ( but not Hiawatha , wherever that is ) . It is quite a trip , stopping at various small towns you wo n't get to otherwise . If you want to get to the real remote areas your best bet is the Polar Bear Express train to Moosonee - it 's as remote as you can get without flying , which I assume is outside your budget .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
I do n't think there is any reason why you should n't start your visit in Venice and come to Milan later on . I suppose your explanation about flights is sound and reasonable , although there are plenty of flights to Venezia Tessera as well as to Verona airport . Normally , Milano is not considered worth visiting for more than one day , although there are monuments and museums here as well . If you can spare 10-15 days to visit Northern Italy , then you should be able to have at least a couple of days in Milan ( a bit on the expensive side as far as hotels are concerned ... ) , at least 4 in Verona if you plan to visit Lake Garda as well , then the rest for Venezia , but you should n't miss Padua and the Brenta Riviera with the various Palladio villas , Treviso and perhaps Asolo or Bassano del Grappa . " Acqua alta " may be a problem , but it is not all that frequent in early November , and quite often the weather is still pleasant . Enjoy your visit , whichever direction you will travel .
Car rental is one of the most obscurely priced services with varying conditions . It is very hard to predict and my advice regarding car rental bookings is " compare " . Compare multiple car rental agencies , compare with brokers , compare with the deal you can get booking with an airline or online travel agent ( OTA ) . The reason you are suggested this car rental is not so much that they are offering you a particularly good deal but just that the OTA - or Emirates , through their ecommerce department - is making a margin on every flight/hotel room/car rental booking ( or in the case of flights on all the small extra called ancillaries , like seat reservation , upgrade , shuttle ... This margin is usually the same for all bookings on one provider ( to be confirmed ) and is determined by the GDS ( which is the bookings wholesalers ) . Specifically regarding car rentals , there are some conditions that vary depending who sells you the package , like insurances , included kilometers , driver 's age ... There are a lot of fees for options like additional driver , fuel refills , one-way rentals . So overall the price depends more on these - and they also often matter to you - so that every booking price is different ( <URL> ) . I just tried to book a car rental through the airline I booked a flight with recently ( they apparently have a contract with <URL> ) and compared with a booking from the website of the same rental agency and in 2 cases I got a lower rate using the airline link . I tried with another booking with another carrier and this time it was through an OTA . In that case the booking through the rental agency was priced the same but maybe the insurances were not exactly the same ( I could not see the conditions ) . In the end what matters is that the price of a car rental with a specific combination of options might be different based on who sells it to you ( the rental agency , an online travel agency or a broker ) . In my experience , the broker was usually cheaper , but I would not consider it a rule . And the conditions - especially the liability insurance - are not always clear . I make a point always reading the conditions ( at least insurances and distance limits ) because there might be tricks . So if the price matters to you , get a quote with Emirates , go to the rental company website and get another quote , and go to an online travel agent like Expedia/Hotwire / ... and get a third quote . Compare the prices and the conditions and pick your favourite .
Yes , the observation deck of Haneda 's international terminal is the public landside area and open to all . Incidentally , Narita stopped doing checks on entry some time ago , but even when they were doing them , they wanted only ID , not tickets . Plenty of people visit airports to meet or see off passengers .
TL ; DR : Yes . The Northern Territory is huge , and spans a range of climates from sopping-wet tropical to bone-dry desert . The <URL> ( Dec 2015 ) are primarily around the Daly River/Waters region , several hundred kilometers south of Darwin , and both Darwin itself and the tourist hubs of Alice Springs and Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , over 1000 km to the south , are entirely unaffected . All three have direct flights from Sydney . All that said , it 's <URL> right now in NT , meaning the tropical bits get a lot of rain even when it 's not outright flooding . Down at Uluru though , it 's summer and thus very dry and hot .
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
I ca n't help with the logistics of actually getting the vehicle between Thailand and Australia , however despite what is and is n't possible there , there 's no cheap way to do what you 're asking . Australia has a relatively strict process for approving imported vehicles , which would normally only be worthwhile if the car was in some way special . If the vehicle is left-hand drive ( ie , the steering wheel is on the left ) then there are even stricter rules regarding importing . You can most of the details in the <URL> . If you are only planning to import the vehicle temporarily you can get by with having a <URL> ( CPD ) , but even this will not be cheap -- especially as you 'll have to pay for transportation in both directions . There have been a few other questions here regarding CPD that you 'll be able to find by searching . Unless there are ( very ! ) special circumstances , selling your car in Thailand and buying a new one in Australia will work out much cheaper than trying to transport it .
<URL> , a visa is indeed required for Kazakhstan . However , only Kazakhstan . It redirects you to an <URL> : So the only weirdness there is that it does depend on which airport you fly into , but assuming you 're using one of the main ones , you should be fine there . For further information , we defer to the <URL> : Here you can find the actual form for <URL> . Note that nowhere on it does it require any other visas . Short version - aside from a visa for Kazakhstan , no further visas are required , UNLESS you 're going to other countries before Kazakhstan , in which case you 'll need visas for those countries , if required .
No , there really are no cheap flights from Toronto to Resolute Bay . This is a known problem , as small communities are hundreds of km from each other and thousands of km from any road . Long distance flights in often hazardous conditions with small aeroplanes . It means the local Inuit ( unlike the extremely well-paid miners ) are often unable to visit each other or to visit southern Canada , and inhabitants of southern Canada are unable to visit Nunavut . Although the article mainly focusses on food prices , <URL> also notes : Nunavut 's remote communities do n't have highway access , he says , and airline tickets do n't come cheap . A one-way to ticket between some Nunavut communities can cost up to $ 2,000 , nevermind moving an entire family to a southern urban centre . From Resolute Bay , you need at least two of such hops . I am not at all surprised that you find tickets for $ 5,000 . I would not expect that you can get to Montréal for less than $ 3,000 , one way . For all practical purposes , visiting Nunavut as a budget traveller is impossible . Maybe you can hitch a ride of a freight supply ship , but there are no official ways through which this is possible , and you 'll be on your way for weeks , if not months . If you try to get out by kayak , ski , or snowmobile , please make sure you are prepared for Arctic weather and Arctic wildlife . Good luck .
If you are comfortable driving in the US , a long term car rental ( ~ 1 month ) will be the best and most economical way to get around , even for cross country trips . I would recommend joining the <URL> . They provide assistance in charting out itineraries , along with maps and campground locations , which will help save on overnight accommodation . If you do not drive , an economical option to explore is the <URL> . Although well priced , you may have to plan routes before hand , there by limiting flexibility . Also , you will need to account for the expense involved in getting to and from the bus stops . For air travel , there has been an occasional airline offering an unlimited travel pass for a limited time period , but the benefits of these have been <URL> .
It seems to depend on what passport you have . Both the <URL> and the <URL> say the same thing . For tourist trips of up to 90 days , citiziens of European Union ( EU ) nations , Turkey , USA , Canada , Mexico , Israel , Japan , Singapore , Switzerland , Iceland , Norway , Australia , New Zealand do not require visa . It looks like all other countries do require visas , you 'll need to contact your nearest <URL> to get one . And if there is n't one , then it looks like Northern Cypriate matters will likely be handled by the local Turkish Embassy , so speak to them . As for issues with the two Cypruses , if you see the " Crossing the Green Line " section on the <URL> it suggests you should n't have any issues as the land border is open . If you 've not got a suitable EU passport or visa , you 'll need to get a visa to cross to the south , and you can certainly ask about it when applying for that visa . I would n't expect any issues though .
There are plenty of buses to Eugene from other cities . From Eugene there is a bus to the McKenzie River Ranger Station a few times a day <URL> From there , its a 10 mile hike . Could make a nice little backpacking overnight trip .
In the UK , if domestic and international travellers are mixed , you will have to have a photo taken whilst passing through security if you are connecting to a domestic flight . At the gate , they match this photo up with the one taken at security . Details can be found <URL> . To strengthen the security of the United Kingdom border , airports that operate common departure lounges must comply with UK Border Force conditions that are necessary to prevent any circumvention of UK immigration controls . This includes a requirement to capture a facial biometric for each domestic passenger on entry and exit of a departure lounge in order to verify their identity . Update : I think there 's some confusion in the other answers about what the question is exactly . Let 's say you fly Boston - Heathrow - Paris . In this case you do not pass through immigration , but just a security and boarding pass check . You then board your flight to Paris where you would go through immigration . The OP is asking what if you went through security and then attempted to board a domestic flight to , say , MAN , perhaps by swapping a boarding pass with someone else , or just using a second BP you 'd already printed under a different ticket ( though that will also result in failure due to Ready To Fly in LHR ) . What will happen is that you will arrive at the gate with the intention of boarding your domestic flight . You will face the biometric camera and it will not recognise you and you will be denied boarding . The only way of exiting the airport will be through immigration .
Easily , just go for the <URL> route : You can experience the scenic Bergen Railway , the breathtaking Flåm Railway , the Aurlandsfjord , the narrow Nærøyfjord and the steep hairpin bends of Stalheimskleiva ( May-September ) . The link above is to a commercial tour agency who will arrange the whole thing if you want ( 8.5 hours end to end ) , but you can quite easily do it by yourself , especially from Bergen . Just plan ahead by checking out the train and ferry schedules , as they do n't run all that often ... and consider overnighting along the way , so you can catch some bits without all the other tourists doing the N-in-a-N loop !
Doing it without permission : Worst case you pay for a new car . Getting permission : Ask !!! . Find a person who has the authority to approve your request and explain what you are trying to do and why . It actually worked for us . It 's important to find somebody who is able to authorise your request . Dealing with someone who is sympathetic but lacks authority will get you nowhere . Real life example below . We rented a car in Australia a few years ago - ALL rental companies had similar " no off road " clauses in their contracts . They were generally specific enough that you could probably drive an Australian " outback " road but not take " unformed road " trails down to picnic areas , dams , lookouts etc. . We had our two adult children with us - we wanted to introduce them to a small glimpse of the " real " outback . We decided to visit and stay at the world famous in Australia " Glengarry Hilton " ( yeah , right !!! ) - down about 50 km of roads that you would n't usually call roads near Lightning Ridge . Some of the agreements said " without written approval " . The endeavour seemed doomed . Non of the counter staff we spoke to had any expectation that such approval could actually be gained . Nor did their supervisors . Having identified the company that had the car we most wanted I did an internet hunt for company upper management and found a phone number of a State manager . Instant success . Full understanding of what we wanted to do . Good explanation of WHY they had the policy - and a note that roads to picnic sites etc were fine - all they wanted was a road that had a formal description so the breakdown wagon knew where to find you :-) . He had only one question - " How did you get my number " :-) . <URL> <URL> . Yes . No problem with driving there . Do n't be misled by the " green " surroundings :-) .
Chiang Mai is a very good base for exploring the North of Thailand . One-day-treks can be booked all over the town for around 1000 Baht . They will do the standard tour , a little trek , an elephant ride , hill tribe visit and rafting . If that 's what you 're looking for you 'll be fine just booking some tour . I would personally ask for a private tour and pay a little more to get a better experience . Walking around the old town can be done without a guide . Ask the hotel staff to give you a map and let them show you points of interest . Make sure to visit some of the ( night ) markets around town . It 's all about food . Chiang Rai is 3-4 hours bus ride . There are buses leaving every 30min from Arcade Bus Station . It is definitely worth visiting .
You can return a rental car early , but whether you get any refund , or even get penalized for the early return , depends on the terms and conditions spelled out in your particular rental agreement . By returning early , you may forfeit certain discounts . For example , a rental car agency may be willing to give you a weekly rate for a five-day rental , but switch to the daily rate for a four-day rental . By returning the car early , the rental car agency may further claim that your original contract has been violated , allowing them to charge a higher rate , but that will not be true for every company or for every jurisdiction . Some agencies may charge an early return fee for postpaid hires . Alamo is well-known for charging $ 15 for early returns , and there are many anecdotes of agency absurdities like <URL> for returning a car 10 minutes early . The reason for the charge , as <URL> is to compensate us in part for our inability to rent your vehicle during the time reserved for your use . On prepaid rentals , again , whether or not you receive any refund for the time remaining depends on your agreement . <URL> that they will recalculate charges based on the actual time rented , while their competitors Hertz and Alamo do not -- but see above for other shadiness from Budget .
I do n't think the Family Visit Visa is an option for 2 reasons , based on the published <URL> . Reason 1 : Ineligible family relationship The list of people who can be visited under a Family visa is given as : spouse or civil partner children parents or siblings grandparents or grandchildren your spouse 's or civil partner 's siblings or parents your child 's spouse or civil partner step parents , step children or step siblings a person you 've been living with in a long-term relationship , as if you were married or in a civil partnership , for at least 2 years before the day you apply A cousin is none of those things . Reason 2 : Ineligible residency status The family member being visited must be one of : a British citizen settled in the UK granted asylum in the UK under humanitarian protection in the UK You 're not a British citizen , and I do n't think being in the UK on a short-term visa yourself counts as being " settled in the UK " . The other 2 options are presumably not relevant either .
end question
start question
Kamakura , Japan : Feasibility of day trip from Tokyo ?
I 'll try to answer on the assumption that you 're asking mostly about the relative practicality of a day trip , rather than asking for a sort of value judgment on the merits of an overnight . You can see a number of popular tourist destinations on a day trip to Kamakura from Tokyo . Additionally , it 's a somewhat sleepy city that , in comparison to much of Tokyo or Yokohama , as temples and shrines close to the public around sunset and retail mostly sort of shuts down around 5:30 -6 pm or so , and unless you 're staying for an unusually late dinner and drinks sort of thing , it 's perfectly easy to get back to nearly anywhere in Tokyo as long as you leave by 10pm or so . Train frequency decreases later in the evening , and that 's the main risk you have to getting back to your hotel . If you plan ahead or use the mobile version of <URL> web site , that should n't be a big problem . The primary benefit of an overnight is that it simply is n't practical to see more than two or three of the major shrines/temples in a single day . Some of the best known ones , like the Daibutsu at Kōtoku-in , can be a pretty substantial walk from other major destinations , like Hachimangu Shrine , so if you have a long list of places you 'd like to see and you 're not motivated to navigate local buses or take taxis to reduce your travel time , or if it happens to be a busy tourist season or pilgrimage season with lots of lines , you might lose a lot of time to travel and waiting . If you have lots of places you want to see , and you want to navigate the little shops selling lacquerware and leather goods and so on that Kamakura is fairly well known for , allow time for lunch and snacks , and stop impromptu at whatever sights you stumble on without advance planning , it can be nice to have the advantages of an early morning after an overnight stay so that you do n't have to push yourself too hard .
I 've found reviews at Trip Advisor and , especially , Booking.com to be reliable . You can get mobile apps for both . The idea of sticking to one chain is also reasonable , but it might be difficult in some of the less populated areas . Off topic , on that route I recommend making a detour to as many National Parks of the Southwest as possible .
Travelling by cargo ship ( mostly container but also bulk or ro-ro , never heard anything about travelling on a tanker , presumably for safety reasons ) is totally a thing . More info and links to specific agents can be found in <URL> . Many websites advertise specific journeys but you can always contact an agent and see what they can find for you . The only US-based freighter travel agent I know is <URL> . It 's not particularly complicated but relatively slow and expensive and needs to be arranged well in advance ( you will also need a certificate from your GP and special " deviation " insurance -- to protect the ship 's operator against losses if they need to change the ship 's route because of you , e.g. in case of medical emergency ) . The price is not fixed nor based on distance per se but simply USD 90-110 per day ( + insurance , agent fees and embarkation/disembarkation fees ) , and crossing the Pacific takes at least 20 days , so around $ 2000 ( this also covers food on board , you get meals at fixed times with the ship 's officers , alcohol at the discretion of the captain , sometimes not at all -- it 's not a cruise , freight goes first and your entertainment a distant second ! ) . You could also go the other way around and cross the Atlantic ( on a cargo ship , a <URL> or a seasonal " repositioning " cruise ) and then go on to Asia by train or cargo ship . Not quick or cheap by any means but certainly a journey to remember . If you are prepared to go for less luxurious options ( <URL> or cheapest offer from Cunard , kupe on the trans-Siberian ) , you could probably manage it for $ 5000 - $ 7000 I think . A friend of mine went to Japan from Europe taking busses to avoid expensive Western European trains and buying a platskartny ticket directly in Moscow ( so one class below kupe , you get a bunk in a carriage with 50 other passengers ) ; it was much cheaper than a pre-arranged tour , possibly even competitive with the plane , but you have to love adventure ! Exactly where you end up on the west coast of the Pacfic Ocean is not very important . Once you have reached East Asia or the Russian far east , the last hop to Japan is not a problem , there are many ferries .
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
Simple : tip daily , if you can . If you tip daily , your tips will definitely go to all the people who clean your room . If you tip at the end of your stay , your tip may or may not go to all the people who clean your room . Also , by frontloading your tips , you build up goodwill with the staff , and housekeeping will be happy to do you a favor if you need it . An extra towel or a few more bottles of water ? No problem !
I 've done plenty of road tripping myself , all over North America , and I think I have some idea of what you want ... Back in the bad old days , before Google , a " map " was physically printed on paper , and there were entire books you could buy which had maps of various parts of the geography of a country , as well as a section showing the distances between various towns and cities . I hear they still exist . By knowing the distance you intend to travel , you can fairly well estimate how long it will take . Try this experiment : Drive from Montreal to Sherbrooke , at an off-peak time of day . Note the time you start and end , and the distance you travel . You should come up with approximately 90 minutes and 150 kilometers . If you check Google Maps , it will suggest a very similar time and distance . Knowing this , you may consider a rule of thumb that you can travel 100 kilometers in an hour on an autoroute ( or Interstate in the US ) . Let 's call it 60 miles , since the US is still a backward country that has n't quite adopted the metric system . This seems like a very good estimate , in my experience . Now , drive back to Montreal and this time , do n't use the autoroute . Use the smaller provincial highways and back roads . Again , you should come up with 150 kilometers , but this time it will take two and a half hours ! This suggests that you can estimate your overall speed on such roads at 60 km/h ( or 35 miles in the US ) . This also seems like a good estimate to me . Similarly you can figure out how much time it takes to get off the highway , fill your gas tank and get back on the highway ( maybe five minutes ; not long enough to worry about ) . You must be hungry after all that driving , so find yourself a diner ! Note the time you walk in the door , and the time you leave . Depending on how quickly you 're served and how quickly you eat , this may take you anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour . Repeat this at several other restaurants , and get a sense of how long it takes you to eat , how long it takes you overall at different types of restaurants , etc. . Crossing the border ( usually 5 to 60 minutes , depending on traffic ) . Not much more to be said about this . What remains to estimate is how much time you want to spend at various attractions . For this , you 'll first need to figure out what you might want to see and do . For instance , you might wish to drive the <URL> . You can do that in ... by our estimate above , just under an hour . But there are several places along the highway that you might want to stop and look at something . That might take you five minutes , or you might be inspired to stand there and watch a waterfall for hours . Only you know for sure . One thing I will advise you not to do is to plan your trip with strict adherence to a schedule . It sounds like you might be tempted to do this . On a road trip especially , you will often run into something that you want to stop and spend some time looking at , and if you feel rushed , then you might not do so , even if you actually had plenty of time . And even if you do run short on time , Quebec is not that far away ... If I were going to give you a nice rule of thumb , I would say to figure on 12 hours for your evening meal , sleeping , getting up and having breakfast . Then about one hour driving for every hour doing something " touristy " ... give or take . You might decide to stay a couple of days in some town , for instance . If you 're still not sure , find a couple of tourist attractions right in your city and visit them . See how long it takes . Most people never do this , which is unfortunate for them ...
While I do n't know any Disneyland except those in Tokyo , I 'm sure the answer depends highly on your preferences . However , just walking there , you can find that there are many , many adults , mostly early-20s and some 30s , who enjoy the Disneyland without children . In fact I can even assume that there are more adult friends groups than the family with children . Also note that in Japan a lot of women who are 20s enter the Disneyland by wearing high school uniform and enjoy the park just like children . Even those 30s wear the uniform , which is quite nauseous , and I have a pathological hatred for it . But it is generally accepted . As to the Sea for adults comment , it is true that it is considered that the Sea is better for adults . That is because there are more restaurants that serve the alcohol , and people who likes the Sea tend to prefer the scenery , night scene , restaurants , cafes , and just walking around there , to rides , attractions , mascots , and shops , which are better in the Land . However , if people say the Sea is better for adults , it usually means the Sea is better for a couple . In both cases , it is boring if you are alone , though I hear some people do enjoy it alone . I should also note that you can enjoy both in a day . They are pretty close to each other and you can just change the park by taking a monorail . If I remember it correctly , the park sells a ticket to enjoy both in a day .
Difficult . You 're probably going to want to spend a night . In which case you could take a car . IF you wanted to take the train , the service is the <URL> . However , the <URL> , and you wo n't reach Bundaberg until 3.30 pm . Coming back , depending on the day , you <URL> . Then you 've got the <URL> , but there the departure times out of Brisbane are in the evening , so even less useful . Finally , you have the <URL> , which is meant to be one of the top rail journeys in the world . However , for getting to Bundaberg , your departure time in Brisbane is 9am , getting you in at 4pm , and returning times are 9.15 am . They only run some days of the week ( it 's a long line ) . Bus is going to be similar , unless you fancy some wee hour coach journey , if you can find it . Even in 2004 when I was doing a scenic flight out of Hervey Bay ( next to Bundaberg ) we got up early in Mooloolaba , rather than try and get there from Brisbane . Final option - Bundaberg does have an airport , there may be a convenient flight from Brisbane , and you could get a bus/train back , or vice-versa ?
<URL> , China on the left , Japan on the right : <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> Here 's some other links with overviews and details : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Oh and I almost forgot my favourite ! If by " mainland Asia " you want to include Siberia , <URL> !
The best option is to make some Japanese friends at the conference and get them to take you out . If that does n't work out and you 're on your own , go to Tokyo 's premier foreigner-friendly watering hole <URL> and pick an <URL> , there 's something there for most tastes . Do not let the street touts steer you into bars , and try to remain somewhat skeptical if an attractive sudden acquaintance wants to drag you into an obscure bar tucked away deep inside a building . Also , instead of drinking all night , you can catch a taxi to the Tsukiji fish market ( it 's not very far away ) around 4 AM and go eat some primo sushi .
The <URL> train runs straight from <URL> to <URL> . Route map : <URL> Bear in mind that Shinjuku is a huge station and that it 's quite easy to get lost or turned around in it . In light of that it may be helpful to figure out which exit you want to take in advance . Here 's a map of the exists : <URL> Also , there 's an attached underground mall called Subnade ( connected to the Shinjuku station via the East Exit , which takes you to the Metro Promenade , which , in turn , takes you to Subnade ) with additional exits : <URL> For my hotel the optimal exit was # 13 of Subnade . YMMV .
2-3pm is not rush hour in Tokyo . However , many central subway stations in Tokyo require you to climb flights of stairs to enter , exit or transfer lines , which is not much fun with large bags , and while there 's usually a single elevator somewhere , this can add a lengthy detour . If you can tell me exactly where you 're going , I can try to recommend a least-bad route . If you 've got large bags and/or are unfamiliar with Tokyo , the Limousine bus direct to your hotel is usually the best option , but availability depends on the destination . I 'd suggest two other alternatives : Take the airport train to the nearest major taxi station , then a taxi to your final destination . ( This is what I usually do . ) A cab from Tokyo Station to most destinations in Chiyoda should be less than 1000 yen . Ship your bags directly from the airport to your hotel with <URL> . This is particularly useful if you 're hardcore and plan to go to the office/customer site before your hotel . Same-day delivery for a full-size suitcase is ~ 2400 yen and the service is extremely reliable ( although at 2 PM you will most likely get it delivered the next morning ) .
Yes , it 's possible , people even <URL> specially for the starlight . These images are by the way the 4th hit on Google search for " aogashima " . <URL> which somehow disappeared from the <URL> of Aogashima also indicates where the path is to reach the center .
I 'm surprised that nobody mentioned the infamous " flip them around " technique . Arguably you can use one pair of boxers for four days if you flip them inside out and front to back . Indeed boxers , and tighty-whities , have two degrees of freedom which produce four possible rotations . This does n't really work with thongs due to the difference in surface area between front and back . Just for kicks <URL> . For added comfort you should of course think of letting them dry as much as possible , or even washing them , since exercising in them inevitably means sweating in them . For completeness sake note that if you do n't wash your sweaty boxers and rotate them four times you 'll probably stink . A lot .
I 'm assuming you 're talking about The Kyushu region ( including okinawa and the islands ) I recently returned from ishigaki ( an island in the Kyushu region ) . We did snorkelling and scuba out there . Most dive schools will not take Non Japanese newbies . As we do n't speak japanese we found an excellent english speaking dive school . If you 're looking to go Snorkelling through a dive school i 'd reccomend Dive school Umicoza . A Day 's Snorkelling will cost 8,400 yen . This includes : hotel pickup equipement rental boat cover Experienced Guides lunch photos of your dive Drop off at your Hotel I went in september and they had 2 english speaking guides ( one also spoke chinese , and french ) . We did Scuba and snorkelling with them and the marine life was spectacular on both . The guides were awesome and it was just an amazing day . Their website is here <URL> If you 'd just like to go to the dive site without going through a dive school ( i really do n't recommend this ) then here 's a link to it on google maps . <URL> The sea temperature will be fine in april as ishigaki 's sea temperature ranges from 21 ° C in winter to 29 ° C in summer Let me know if you have any more questions .
Economics , it 's likely that demand in one direction is higher , and as such the airlines can charge more . Or competition is lower in one direction , so they can make profits . Or landing / airport taxes might be higher , and they put it on that . This happens all over the world , and is part of travel hacking , trying to work out if you can get it cheaper ;) We have similar questions about other routes , so I 'll link to those for completeness : <URL> <URL> However the airline still needs to get back to pick up the pricey passengers , so it 's in their interest to fill the plane , even if it 's at a lower rate . As for discarding tickets , this happens , although airlines are n't always pleased . I 've seen a return ticket be cheaper than a one-way regularly . Fortunately , we have a question on this too : <URL>
I ca n't see your video so I 'm not quite sure what you mean by " hidden fees " , but maybe <URL> would be a helpful starting point . Regarding baggage fees specifically , <URL> lets you include these when comparing flight prices . After performing a search , click " Show Toolbox " at the top of the left navigation bar , then " Add Baggage " and input the number of checked bags .
For the visa part , the rules are ( <URL> ) : Visitors continuing their journey to a third country within 72 hours can obtain a Shore Pass/Transit Pass on arrival , provided : being able to prove to Japanese immigration that Shore/Transit Pass will be appropriately used ; and departing from the same airport of arrival ; or departing from a different airport ( or seaport ) in the district of the airport ( or seaport ) of arrival , provided both ports are located within the same group as listed below . Group A : Airports : Narita ( NRT ) , Haneda ( HND ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) , Niigata ( KIJ ) , Komatsu ( KMQ ) and Yokota . Seaports : Tokyo , Yokohama , Niigata and Nagoya ; Group B : Airports : Kansai International ( KIX ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) and Komatsu ( KMQ ) . Seaports : Kobe and Nagoya . Group C : Airports : Fukuoka ( FUK ) , Nagasaki ( NGS ) , Kumamoto ( KMJ ) , Kagoshima ( KOJ ) , Naha ( OKA ) and Kadena . Seaports : Hakata ( Fukuoka ) , Shimonoseki and Naha ( Okinawa ) . Group D : Airport : Chitose ( CTS ) . Seaports : Tokakomai , Otaru , Hakodate and Muroran . Additional Information : Tokyo ( NRT ) closes at 11:00 pm.Visa required passengers intending to transit overnight , must hold a transit visa or obtain a Shore Pass in order to clear Immigration . Under those rules , you should be able to obtain a transit pass on arrival at Narita and venture out of the airport .
Here is a list of cities that i think are worth at least one day and where you can go in less than 2 h of train from Paris . I list the time by car because you can use car-sharing with <URL> or <URL> Brussels , its beers , fries , chocolate ( train 1 h 20 , car 3 h ) ( Belgium ) Chartres , its cathedral ( train 1 h , car 1 h ) Dijon , its mustard , champagne ( train 1 h 40 , car 3 h ) Lille , its flemish architecture , cheese , beers , fries ( train 1 h , car 2 h ) Metz ( train 1 h 20 , car 3 h ) Orléans ( train 1 h 10 , car 1 h 30 ) Reims , its cathedral ( train 40 min , car 1 h 30 ) Rouen , its cathedral ( train 1 h 10 , car 1 h 30 ) Troyes ( train 1 h 30 , car 1 h 50 ) My list is totally subjective , do n't hesitate to get information on these cities to make your choice . ( Chamonix is too far away to do in one day . )
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
end question
start question
How to choose a guide book for your next trip ?
Obviously , the best book for you depends a lot on what you are looking for . Many criteria are to be taken into account : the place ( s ) you 'll go to : some books will cover only the capital , other will cover the main cities and other will cover the countryside as well . the duration of your trip ( many books are explicitely for trips of a couple of days ) the kind of tourist you are : what are you really looking for ( cultural visits , natural landscapes , relaxation ) how much are you willing to spend on your trip ( many books are for backbackers and might be irrelevant for a family trip ) : the transportation , the places to sleep/drink/eat / visit and the can be really different how much cultural background you want to know : a few small sentences in the foreign language ; the whole history of the country ; a description of the culture you 'll be living in . All those things can make a difference and might or might not be relevant to you how you want to use your guide : read the whole thing before the trip , open it at random once you are there , etc how you want to find the information in your guide : sorted by city/price/type of activity many other things In any case , if you are in the shop , it 's worth opening the different books to see if they really talk about what you are looking for and if it seems good to you ( which is mostly of matter of personal preferences ) . If you are front of your computer , you can still have a look at the readers reviews ( on Amazon for instance ) even if it might not be really accurate as one usually tries only one guide per trip/destination . Finally , after a while , you might get used to a specific type of guide and feel more comfortable with it . As for me , I 'm really used to the " Guides du Routard " ( French collection ) and I 'm not really fond of the " Lonely Planet " .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
While the English version of the USJ website does n't note the special birthday pass , the <URL> does : If the link disappears , the plan is called " バースデープラン " ( Birthday Plan ) . Here are the search terms if you need to regoogle it : <URL> or <URL> You do n't have to read Japanese to check out the page and see that you get a small discount . The one day-pass goes from JPY7200 ( with tax ) to Y6700 ( with tax ) , for children from Y4980 to 4580 with tax . There 's a similar discount for the 2-day pass ( to Y10 ,288 and Y7241 for children with tax ) . You also get a special sticker and a character ( Marilyn Monroe ) will pose with you for a birthday photo . There is also some fine print : you must be a <URL> ( membership itself is free but needs to be done online ) . You can enter the park either in your birthday month or the following month . You can buy 1-day or 2-day passes for yourself and for 5 accompanying family members . You can order the tickets up to three months before your birthday month . It looks like they go out of their way to make it difficult for non-Japanese language speakers to buy it , so I 'd recommend asking a local friend to help . You can buy the tix online through their website or at the gate ( but if buying the ticket at the gate , you will still have to pre-register as a Club Universal member and print out the coupon that they will issue you during your birthday month ) . I.e. , you ca n't walk up without pre-registering and expect to get the discount .
In other words : is there a policy that a document used in a train booking must also be acceptable for entry and exit from Russia ? No , there is no written policy for that . The only thing you should be aware of is the conductor during the board check validates your document and ticket . The document number and your names in it must be the same as in your ticket . So , you must provide them your ID-card , and , as far as I know , it does n't looks like a passport . This can be a problem in general , as the conductors simply can be unfamiliar with such document formats . This can cause the delay in boarding and even the denial for the trip ( as you said that you do not speak Russian , they will try to find an English speaker ) . From other side , the Sapsan 's are frequently used by foreigners , and for this exactly train you really not in a danger . But I still do advice for you to get the passport with you , for the safety ( it much more safer to bring it with you rather than leave it in a hotel ) . Passport check are rare in general , but on railway stations and subway they still can be met . In case if you have no passport with you , police can provide you to the police station for a further checks , and they can leave you there for hours . This is not the situation I want to be in . As for the difference between domestic and international trains - I think that you really should use the passport there , as the conductors during the boarding are checking the visas for all the passengers , and there is a huge probability of denial for such trip if you have used not a passport ( even if you have it with you ) - they simply will be over-insure themselves . Also , be aware of that the <URL> may not accept your Visa/MasterCard payment card if they are issued not in Russia . So , you have to find another site for ticket purchasing . For example , this can be used : <URL> but personally I have n't used any of such sites for myself . Edit : Kazakhstan is a member of <URL> , so you can use your ID as it is ЗЗ - Foreign document ( passport , identity card , etc. ) issued to citizens of the CIS But I suggest you to use it only for domestic trains , as I stated before .
This depends primarily on whether you booked the connection flight as a single ticket , or separately . If you booked the flights separately , missing the connection is entirely your risk . If you booked a single ticket , it 's the issuing airline 's responsibility to fulfill the contract and deal with any unforeseen circumstances . In almost all cases , the airline will put you an a later plane . In both cases , you may be entitled to compensation under regulations like <URL> or the the airline conditions that replaced <URL> after deregulation . Which one applies can be a tricky question . These regulatuions entitle you to some or all of the following : Acommodation , food and communication while you wait for a delayed flight or a missed connection . A cash compensation for longer delays . A choice of continuing the flight as soon as possible ( perhaps even with a different airline ) , at a later time of , or having it refunded . However , these may not be applicable to delays caused by " acts of god " , i.e. unforeseeable factors outside the control of the airline , which would include the case you describe . But at least in the case of the EU regulation , the first point ( accomodation , food , communication ) is required always , up to and including <URL> .
I take a padlock with me . I only use hostels that have lockers that I can attach my own lock to ( not one where they give you the combination ) . If I am couch surfing , I lock my bag up with it . Maybe this is just paranoia , but I feel like using an anti-theft backpack device just makes you stand out ... I also do n't think it helps too much . My brother and I flew down to Peru a couple years ago . He had a security net over his bag , I did n't . On the Lima to Cusco leg we both had some stuff stolen ... neither of us keep anything of value in checked bags , so they just stole some toiletries .
I 've found reviews at Trip Advisor and , especially , Booking.com to be reliable . You can get mobile apps for both . The idea of sticking to one chain is also reasonable , but it might be difficult in some of the less populated areas . Off topic , on that route I recommend making a detour to as many National Parks of the Southwest as possible .
In general , no , you do n't have to , particularly if you 're just looking for a bed for one night , and are n't terribly picky . That said , the later you choose to pull off the road - particularly in peak travel season - the more likely you are to be greeted by that dreaded " No Vacancy " sign . ( Or , in nicer establishments , a polite refusal at the front desk . ) My typical MO when driving long distances , is to pull off the road at a rest stop or town about 2-3 hours before I intend to stop driving for the day ; ( in my case , this is usually right around the time the sun is getting low enough in the sky to blind me if I 'm driving west , so I can wait it out ; otherwise , around Sunset . ) Then , I 'll use my Smartphone ( or , if I 'm running low tech for some reason , a payphone at a rest stop and a map ) , to look up hotels that are about ~ 100 miles further along the road from where I am , and book a room online before continuing my drive . This gives me the flexibility to book same day for wherever I end up , while avoiding the occasional frustration of showing up at 9 PM to no rooms for 50 miles in any direction on a Friday night , followed by sleeping in the car in a parking lot ( it 's happened to me . It sucks . ) . All of the major US chains have pretty decent mobile sites that are geared towards exactly this sort of use . I find the IHG ( Holiday Inn et al ) , and Best Western apps are particularly good for looking a little bit ahead along a highway . YMMV . Keep in mind that in some cases , booking further in advance can give you access to better pricing or promotions , but you give up flexibility to do so .
If you are not going far out of the city , you only need a ticket for the tariff zone " Großbereich Hamburg " which covers the white and blue areas on the <URL> . This tariff zone also covers the airport and the trip between the airport and the city centre . On Friday , you could either buy a single-trip ticket from the airport to the city centre for 3,20 $ or if you plan further trips later in the evening , a day ticket ( 9-Uhr-Tageskarte ) for 6,20 $ may come cheaper . On Saturdays , Sundays and public holidays , the 9-Uhr-Tageskarte is valid all day . Single fare tickets within the city centre are 1,50 $ , 2,20 $ or 3,20 $ depending on the distance , so unless you only plan one or two trips with public transport , the day ticket comes cheaper . A further option is the 3-day <URL> for 25,50 $ . In addition to free public transport within the " Großbereich Hamburg " , you get discounts on the tickets to several tourist attractions like museums and sightseeings and discounts on theatre or cinema tickets or in restaurants and cafés . You should check the online benefits list and see if there is anything interesting and if it 's worth the 6,90 $ extra compared to three day tickets for the public transport . You should however avoid buying the " Hamburg CARD " online , since you would have to pick it up at the tourist information at the central railway station ( and therefore need an additional ticket to get there from the airport ) . Instead , the " Hamburg CARD " should also be available at the HVV ticket machines at the airport , so that you can buy it there directly .
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
I 've seen tourists kayaking without guides . I do n't think it 's a common practice that guides should be obligatory . I think you can work things out with a company and rent some kayaks without guides . Honestly speaking , all the islands are great for exploring . I 've seen that you can rent a kayak in Zakynthos that is really exciting and has some great spots to explore with kayak . I would also recommend Milos island and Santorini ( not sure if there are any kayak renting companies in Santorini though )
Count the number of pieces you leave at the laundry shop in front of the laundry lady and have her write it down on a piece of paper . Then count the pieces you get back , again in front of her .
Have a read of the <URL> section of <URL> . It details exactly what you need to do to get an account ( depending on the credit card you plan to use ) , how to get it verified , and then information on booking the tickets . It 's fiddly , takes a couple of days , but I can confirm that it works as I used it last month to book tickets ! ( You 'll end up using the official booking sites , either IRCTC or ClearTrip depending on your credit card , but the process of registering for them as a foreigner without an Indian mobile phone is fiddly so you 'll need to follow the Seat61 advice ! )
I called a cousin who works for an airline at an airport , he explained how to do this in a very safe and efficient way . Infants do not need a seat , airline require a fraction of the price paid by the adult to be paid for the infant ( ~ 10 % ) or sometimes it is free . Hence , just make the reservation for you and your wife and other passengers who need seats , and skip the infant . Once the infant is born and it is the day of the travel , head to the airport a bit early and issue the boarding for the baby on the spot , as I said earlier , airline staff will be happy to issue the boarding because there is no seat required and you can make the payment in the airport . The price should be a fraction of the that specific price you paid . So , no worries at all . Anyway , to his knowledge this is how it is done in the airline he works for and some other airlines , not sure if it is safe to assume all other airlines do it the same way , but according to him adding an infant who does not require a seat is something easy in many airline systems .
I broke down and traveled to to the bus station . They were able to process my refund at the ticket window . I needed to provide ( 1 ) photo id and the ( 2 ) reference number from the confirmation e-mail . The clerk printed the actual ticket , then I provided two signatures to complete the refund . ( I did n't realize a Greyhound bus ticket is NOT a reservation for a seat on the bus on that day like an airline ticket . Even though the confirmation e-mail lists the date and time of the departure and arrival , the ticket was valid for 1 year . I was thinking I need to get the refund before the scheduled date . According to the clerk , I could have processed the refund or used the bus ticket months after I originally planned to leave . )
It 's highly recommended you bring gear , not only for yourself , but to leave behind for the local Cubans . <URL> , <URL> and others all pretty much say the following : To sustain the local climbers , please pack extra climbing gear and leave it all behind . The Cubans need climbing equipment , as it 's impossible to get it locally . The majority of visitors now follow the tradition initiated by the first visiting climbers , who left their rack , ropes , shoes and harnesses in Cuba . Try it -- you will feel very gratified . Some suggestions : Most useful are the basics : shoes , harnesses , ropes , chalk , pads and packs . However , the single biggest need to propel Cuban climbing forward is bolts and hangers . So , basically , do n't assume anything is available , and bring all you need . Sources above , and also I was in Cuba earlier this year . Incidentally , it 's changing very , very quickly so for future readers , do actually check those sites as the information may update/change soon .
Not entirely sure if this is what you 're after , as it 's still a bit vague - but for adventurous travellers like myself , and others I 've met in stranger countries regularly use <URL> . It 's all purchasable and able to be edited/renews/claimed against online , which is great for travellers without say a regular permanent address that some companies require you to have . I 'm actually getting a new policy with them tonight - albeit for a simple visit to Canada :) ( assuming no more riots ! )
I live in Japan and every day commute with trains and metro . And can assure you that nobody will think you are rude by offering the seat . From my personal experience : I have a rule to always give up my seat to Disabled/injured people Pregnant women ( in Japan they wear a badge like this <URL> ) Elderly women and man People with huge bags ; often you 'll see women with gigantic , heavy bags they carry from shops The only thing is that I will confirm - many elderly people turn down the offer . Sometimes because they go out in the next station , sometimes they just do n't want to . But in any case they will give you a polite response . I actually feel more pressure to stay near the seat I 've given up , because Japanese will thank you many-many times after taking the seat and I feel shy of such attention for such a trivial thing . So long story short - feel free to show your kindness and do n't over-think about some people seeing it as rudeness . Especially in Japan where people are usually very polite .
The problem with dirty clothes is they will take huge space when packing them again ( if not done correctly ) , logically the clothes are the same but after packing the dirty ones the space is not enough . Usually this is due to packing them in an ugly way like the ways you mentioned ( ball them or putting them in shoe bags ) . The best thing I have always been doing and it always worked and I never had space problem is by folding them as if they were clean , then put them in a plastic bag , squeeze the air out of the plastic bag and seal it . Squeezing the air will make it less bulky . This way you will not need more space than what you needed when you first packed them and it will not mix with your new clothes and smell ( if available ) will not spread all over the bag . If no plastic bag available you can do the same with a laundry bag ( usually available in the cupboards in hotels ) . Anyway , putting clothes in a plastic bag and squeezing the air out is also good idea for clean clothes to save space .
The best I can recommend to you is to become a <URL> ( Deutscher Alpenverein , DAV ) or the <URL> ( ÖAV , all links in German ) . Membership costs varies depending on the " Sektion " you choose to become a member of ( you can choose freely and I know many people who choose one purely based on cost ) but is in the range of EUR50 and comes with <URL> ( through ASS for the DAV ) . @Relaxed suggests in <URL> that the ÖAV should be your first try , as they have a <URL> and <URL> as well as less restrictions in their terms and conditions . I second that advice ! What you get is Search and rescue costs up to $ 25,000 Repatriation with no upper cost limit Reimbursement of expenses due to hospitalisation after accidents occurring in the course of leisure activities or business as well as illness , up to $ 10,000 Third party liability insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 3,000,000 Legal expenses insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 35,000 <URL> You will want to look to the " A " column ( full member ) which you can sort . Currently it seems the " Alpenfreunde Euskirchen " are the cheapest at EUR40 annually . At first search I could not find a homepage for them so you might be happier at another , more internet-affine " Sektion " . In Austria the fees seem to be the same across sections and <URL> , currently you pay EUR61 per annum to be a full member , but they mention extra charges for members from abroad due to higher processing expenses .
end question
start question
Legal and security issues with wild camping in Ukrainian mountains ?
First of all : is it legal ? Well , I have never heard about such problems too . Regarding Chornogora - yep , it is a kind of national park , there are even some official fees at some entrances , but all camping activities are pretty much allowed . The only places you may have legal problems at are country borders ( like Marmarosy chain ) - usually you have to get permission from local border post . However , there also are real nation parks like <URL> - camping is actually forbidden there . Second , is there the real danger of being attacked or robbed ? Can the camp or the rucksacks be left unattented for a few hours ? Never heard about robbery in mountains . However , usually we try not to leave camp unattended ( or at least close all entrances , pick money and documents along , etc ) . Third : in case of emergency , is it possible to get help from emergency teams ? Never had such a case , but yes , it is possible , especially at popular \ dangerous routes . Here is contacts of local emergency teams - <URL> ( yep , in Ukrainian :( ) . Anyway , you would better have a native speaker with you on the track - it will be much easier just to ask locals about right way or even get yourself out of some troubles .
While I do n't regularly sleep in the airports , I suggest you check out <URL> : Whether you are sleeping in the airport by yourself or with friends , it is good to know where security is . Know where their office is and look for video cameras in the spot you decide to stay the night . They 've probably seen many airport sleepers before you and they will direct you to a safe spot . If you suspect a problem with airport security , you may want to follow this tip and sleep in the car : Whether you are stuck in the airport overnight or choose to be there voluntarily , there may be a chance that you will be uncomfortable and unhappy with your surroundings in the terminal . If you are travelling on a budget and do not want to fork out for one of the airport hotels , head over to the car rentals hall to find out the cost of a car rental and ( assuming you can keep the car in the lot at no cost ) sleep in the car . The great part about this is that you can recline on padded seats and there will be no annoying security announcements or rattling luggage carts whipping past your head throughout the night . On the negative side , car horns and screeching tires may jolt you from your slumber . Sure the car rental staff may look into your car wondering if you 've had a stroke and the bathroom may be an issue depending on the location of the nearest toilet , but hey , you 're saving money here ! Very important - remember to check the drop-off hours to ensure a staff member will be there when you " drop-off " the car before your flight the next morning ! This is easier at larger airports . Also , make sure to <URL> so you know if there are known problems before you face them . Good luck !
The airport has a very good homepage where you can get a list of restaurants , filtered by areas : <URL> The same applies for shops : <URL> It depends whether you fly to Canada/USA/any other country , but there are sit down restaurants available , but no pharmacy , even pre security . It could be that other shops sell the most important pharmacy products though .
<URL> actually fulfilled all my prerequisites except the outdoor gym . It 's about a 25 minute walk straight to the west of Chinatown . If not actually natural it 's certainly nicely landscaped and full of trees and plants . It has a lake in one section though not a huge one . It has quite a few paths running all around it and a small number of local joggers . It even has a very large childrens ' playground , parts of which are useable for chin-ups . And at least when we were there not many kids were using it so we were n't disturbing anyone . Next time I went to the Botanical Gardens I found a very crummy outdoor gym at a site that 's mostly dug up for something new . It was only good for a couple of leg exercises though and did n't have any of the machines you see in parks around the world , nor did it have a chin-up bar or anything else for upper-body fitness . ( I 'd still love to hear about another place with a half-decent outdoor gym if one is reachable without a car . )
is it likely that my US-issued card will be generally usable in the UK and other countries with the chip-and-pin system , or should I be ready to exchange cash ? You should be able to use your card at most places , in the UK and other countries too . At least ATMs and most shops accept it , while some vending machines may require a chip-and-pin ( i.e. <URL> ) card . <URL> has this to say ( regarding UK &amp; Ireland ) : While most terminals will still accept a magnetic strip card , and the major credit card brands require vendors to accept them , poorly trained staff may refuse to take the card under the mistaken belief that they will be held liable for any fraud if the card can not verify a PIN . Non-chip-and-PIN cards may also not work in some unattended vending machines at , for example , transport stations . If you 're still worried , there are options like this : In 2010 a number of companies began issuing pre-paid debit cards that incorporate the Chip &amp; PIN which allows Americans to load up cash as Euros or British Pounds . In Finland , <URL> : blue for chip cards and yellow for legacy cards with only magnetic stripe . ( In most counties using EMV there 's just one slot for both kinds of cards though , AFAIK . ) Photo credit : <URL>
I had this same issue with a hostel in the UK . I pressed the hostel for an explanation , and also found a forum thread of hostel managers discussing this policy . Both gave the same explanation . From their point of view , it was so they could take the money out my account if I did n't show up . They said they do it only in busy periods when they know they 'll be full , so they do n't lose money turning customers away only to find the booked customers do n't show up . But do n't do it ! Even if you trust this hostel not to deliberately rip you off , you 're putting all the credit card information someone would need to commit credit card fraud , unsecured , unencrypted , stored on ( if you 're lucky ) a knackered old laptop sitting in a reception , or ( if you 're unlucky ) in a pile of paper printouts left lying around unattended while the sole staffer that shift fixes some emergency . It would be shockingly easy for a criminal , or even just a random opportunist like a disgruntled hostel staffer , local computer repair guy or guest , to obtain enough information to clone your card or raid your account . I refused - and instead agreed to pay part ( 60 % if I remember right ) of the bill up front via PayPal . This safely resolved their no-show concern and , while not ideal , it secured the accommodation I wanted when everywhere else was full . It 's not super uncommon for busy places to insist on upfront payment - my only unhappiness with this was that it seems dishonest that this had n't been apparent at the time I made the booking , and that they did n't respect the deposit I 'd already paid . HostelWorld give some card details like card number , name , etc to the hostel , but ( for good reason ) not enough for the hostel to simply take a debit using a standard card machine . A common , expensive problem for hostel owners is people booking in busy periods then not showing up , leaving rooms and beds empty that could be full . Also ( apparently ) the deposit you pay to HostelWorld stays at HostelWorld as their fee , so in the event of a no-show , the hostel itself gets nothing , not even a deposit ( I only have one hostel 's word on this ) . This is a crude , low-tech , possibly illegal and certainly non-PCI-compliant workaround . Here 's <URL> . Somebody rightly points out it : may breach your T&amp;C 's with your card provider , as well as not being PCI compliant ! ... but it appears to be moderately popular none-the-less ... It 's unlikely that the hostel itself would scam people ( but possible ) , as hostels live and die on their reputation ( except well-located tourist traps where all bets are off including " will I wake up with all my luggage and both kidneys " ) , but still , I 'd strongly recommend not complying because : Your full credit card info will be sitting unencrypted on a computer system not set up to safely store credit card information . They might even be in a pile of printed emails sitting on a table , for all you know . For an online shop to accept and store credit card details , it needs to pass tough checks on its server security ( PCI compliance ) or face a heavy fine . Plain text in an email would definitely fail those checks . Even if you trust the hostel , you do n't know that you can trust everyone who uses the hostel computer . The hostel owner might be legit ( albeit ignorant/reckless with their guest 's credit cards ) , but it 'd just take one disgruntled underpaid receptionist , or one dodgy local computer repair person , or one guest who convinces the receptionist that they " urgently " must use the hostel computer for 5 minutes , or one tech-savvy guest or neighbour ( email is not secure ) ... Since the motivation is usually all about the hostel protecting itself from no-shows , you should be able to negotiate a compromise where you some of the fee up front . If they wo n't , stay somewhere else : they either have more sinister reasons , or are not sufficiently tech-literate to receive money by PayPal ( therefore definitely ca n't be trusted to keep your card details secure ! ) . Here 's some excerts from my email exchange to give you an example : Them : Thanks for booking with us ! During busy periods we pre authorise credit cards in order to cover your booking fee should you not arrive I 'm afraid were not able to complete pre authorisation . In order to do this we need your CVC number that unfortunately was not provided when you made the booking . In order for us to guarantee your reservation please contact us immediately Me : ( paraphrasing ) hell no , I 've never been asked this before , I 'm not putting my card details in an email , and you 've already got my deposit . Play nicely or I 'll claim a refund on the deposit , book elsewhere and report you to HostelWorld for attempted credit card fraud . ( but worded more politely ) Them : We do not receive deposit . # 8.64 was paid already and it is a Hostelworld.com fee . In our Terms and Conditions is stated , that we do pre - authorization and in order to do that , we need CVC number . There is
Often at security they swab my backpack and some of my possessions with a small piece of damp paper . It is supposed to pick up traces of the materials I 've been handling . Then they put it in a machine that analyzes those traces . At customs and immigration it 's set to detect various illicit drugs ( I 've seen this on Border Security ) but at security I believe it 's set to detect explosives . Certain people are chosen randomly for a swab . Since you had no residue on your hands that would require them to inspect you further , they sent you on your way . This was n't caused by you leaving a ring on . Leaving a wedding ring on is fine .
Japan does not have a general " <URL> " like Scandinavian countries , wild camping on public land is theoretically illegal and wild camping on private property requires the landowner 's permission . That said , both rules are only loosely enforced and there 's a bit of a tradition of " <URL> " ( 野宿 nojuku ) in Japan : simply put , if you pitch up a tent or even sleep on a bench in an out-of-the-way place so that you do n't disturb anybody and do n't make a mess , you 're unlikely to be disturbed either . I 've done this a few times and never had a problem , just pitch your tent late and head out early , or ask permission . ( courtesy me and my tent ) Also , Japanese campsites tend to be pretty cheap , eg . the view above in <URL> cost me all of & yen ; 500 and that included showers . Hokkaido has lots of similar camping options , occasionally even including a nearby natural hot spring ( eg . Wakoto near Lake Akan , Onuma near Hakodate , etc. ) For the specific case of Daisetsuzan , these are some pretty serious mountains and the traverse is not an easy hike . While there are campsites , some of them free , most people opt to stay in the huts , which are cheap and considerably more comfortable if there 's bad weather , plus you do n't have to lug a tent around ! See <URL> and , in particular , <URL> for details .
As Mark mentioned it does depend on the airport and country , but as a general rule , the inspectors are only required to repack your items back into the suitcase they came out of . The plastic wrap is a disposable item and even if they slowly and carefully unwrapped it , it would be near impossible to rewrap . So plastic wrap would be tossed by any inspection after you have checked your bags . If you have something like a cardboard box and the plastic wrap was keeping it shut , then the inspector would likely use tape to close the box after completing the inspection .
As for your alternative question on " how to get the cheapest fare in Thalys " : the b-europe . com website offers a <URL> . For each date , it shows the price of the cheapest tickets still available on that date . The cheapest possible fare for a trip from Liège-Guillemins to Paris Nord seems to be $ 29 . These are always " Non Flex " tickets ( color coded in green ) meaning there 's no possibility of exchanges or refunds . There might be cheaper tickets because there 's a color code for " Promo " tickets ( yellow ) , but I 'm not seeing any on the fare calendar now ( I 'm not sure I ever have for the routes I 've booked ) . You can always book up to three months in advance , so today April 7th , you can book tickets up to July 7th . For that date , the cheapest offers I 'm currently seeing are : I 'm not sure about the Liège-Paris route , but in my experience with other routes , these offers do n't last long , especially if you do n't want to travel on a very early or very late train . So your best bet is to book exactly three months in advance .
There are 67,000 people in the TSA , and an <URL> to do the job instead , so some variance will be inevitable . In your particular case , it sounds like either you 've been going through the <URL> at OAK , or they 're confused/lazy/running a quiet trial and applying the Precheck rules to all passengers : TSA Precheck allows passengers who have been pre-approved to keep on their shoes and belt , not remove their jackets , keep their laptops inside their cases , and not have to remove select liquids and gels from their bags . Full-body scanners are not mandatory and are in fact <URL> from all airports because ( shh ) they did n't work .
All the quotes are from my LonelyPlanet : Bulgaria : Camping in the wild ( ie outside a camping ground ) is technically prohibited but normally accepted if you 're discreet and , most impor tantly , do not build wood fires ( which attract attention and damage the environment ) . Greece : Free ( wild ) camping is illegal , but the law is not always strictly enforced and some areas are more tolerant and renowned for it , espe cially along the south coast . It is wise to ask around . For Macedonia and Albania I could only find a general Western Balkans quote : Camping in the wild is usually illegal ; ask locals about the situation before you pitch your tent on a beach or in an open field .
The Czech police website has a <URL> of the current legal situation , albeit only in Czech . Selling marijuana for whatever amount of money or services is a criminal offence , punishable for one to five years in prison : § 187 Nedovolená výroba a držení omamných a psychotropních látek a jedů ( 1 ) Kdo neoprávněně vyrobí , doveze , vyveze , proveze , nabízí , zprostředkuje , prodá nebo jinak jinému opatří nebo pro jiného přechovává omamnou nebo psychotropní látku , přípravek obsahující omamnou nebo psychotropní látku , prekursor nebo jed , bude potrestán odnětím svobody na jeden rok až pět let . Buying marijuana is n't a specific criminal or civil offense , however it obviously leads to possession . Possession of marijuana is a civil offense , as long as the quantity of the drug is for personal consumption . If one is found to be in violation of this law , they may be fined by up to 15000 ( ~ 550 ) . However it 's rare for the police to care about this particular misdemeanor , so most drug users are ignored . ( 1 ) Přestupku se dopustí ten , kdo j ) neoprávněně přechovává v malém množství pro svoji potřebu omamnou nebo psychotropní látku ( 2 ) Za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . a ) až d ) lze uložit pokutu do 3 000 Kč , za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . e ) a f ) pokutu do 5 000 Kč a zákaz činnosti do 1 roku , za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . g ) až i ) pokutu od 25 000 Kč do 50 000 Kč a zákaz činnosti od 1 do 2 let a za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . j ) a k ) pokutu do 15 000 Kč What quantity of marijuana is considered to be for personal consumption is not strictly defined , however the Supreme Court has recommended <URL> to be used as a cut-off . Smoking marijuana is n't defined as a separate offence , however it 's obviously impossible without possessing a certain quantity . Likewise there 's no separate offence for being intoxicated from marijuana . Growing marijuana is also illegal . Keeping up to 5 plants is a civil offense ( punishable by a fine of up to 15000 ) or a criminal offense if more than 5 plants are grown : Konopí lze pěstovat i doma , ale pouze do obsahu THC 0,3 % , což je uvedeno v zákoně č . 167/1998 Sb . o návykových látkách a jedná se o tzv . technické konopí . Pokud z něj následně budu vyrábět drogu marihuana , nejedná se zcela jistě o tzv . technické konopí s obsahem účinné látky THC do 0,3 % a tudíž se jedná buď o přestupek podle § 30 odst . 1 písm . k ) zák . č . 200/1990 Sb . o přestupcích , přičemž za malé množství se považuje rozsah do pěti rostlin . Šest a více rostlin pěstovaných s obsahem THC vyšším než 0,3 % je považováno za trestný čin podle § 285 trestního zákoníku č . 40/2009 Sb . A to platí pro jakékoliv pěstování , tedy i pro léčebné účely , pokud nejsem držitelem udělené licence Ministerstvem zdravotnictví ČR . Výroba návykové látky je trestným činem podle § 283 tr . zákoníku , bez ohledu na množství vyráběné drogy . Medical marijuana has been <URL> , however prescriptions from other countries are not valid . The conditions of getting a prescription from a local doctor are much stricter than in places like California , so it 's not something feasible for a tourist .
In my experience , having a positive detection at the swab testing station is not a problem . The testing machines only give an indication of possible explosive residue , and are not conclusive . Several times I have had a positive detection at the swab test station ( not actually carrying or handling any explosives ) . If they get a positive test , they may ask you more questions or search your luggage by hand . After all , it is not necessarily illegal to handle explosive materials ( outside the airport ! ) , and security would have no reason to prevent somebody from flying solely because they had been handling explosives the day before . Their job is to prevent the explosives from getting on the plane . In your case , it 's unlikely that there would be detectable residue left on your key ring , and even if there is , you should n't have a problem .
First of all : is it legal ? Well , I have never heard about such problems too . Regarding Chornogora - yep , it is a kind of national park , there are even some official fees at some entrances , but all camping activities are pretty much allowed . The only places you may have legal problems at are country borders ( like Marmarosy chain ) - usually you have to get permission from local border post . However , there also are real nation parks like <URL> - camping is actually forbidden there . Second , is there the real danger of being attacked or robbed ? Can the camp or the rucksacks be left unattented for a few hours ? Never heard about robbery in mountains . However , usually we try not to leave camp unattended ( or at least close all entrances , pick money and documents along , etc ) . Third : in case of emergency , is it possible to get help from emergency teams ? Never had such a case , but yes , it is possible , especially at popular \ dangerous routes . Here is contacts of local emergency teams - <URL> ( yep , in Ukrainian :( ) . Anyway , you would better have a native speaker with you on the track - it will be much easier just to ask locals about right way or even get yourself out of some troubles .
I have faced this countless times while travelling in Asia because sellers can be incredibly aggressive in their selling tactics there . The best way to handle this is <URL> : appear local and do n't engage them . Appear local : Okay , there are times when this is not possible . There will be places such as monuments that clearly only tourists visit , or you may stand out very obviously as a tourist due to your ethnicity . The key is appearing local . If you can say " no " to them in the local language , it gives an impression that you could possibly be an expat and thus wise enough to be not an easy target to rip off . At the end of the day , the sellers are only concerned about the payoff for their effort . Giving the impression that you 're an expat who lives in the country is very effective at discouraging them to spend time on trying to convince you to buy something . Do n't engage them : Engaging touts or hardsellers in a market is a very tourist mistake to make . This especially happens at train / bus / airports in some countries too . If you observe locals or expats , you 'll notice that they just ignore them and walk on . Engaging with them in a conversation on what your name is or where you 're from / going to is something that only tourists do because they are afraid of coming off as rude . Do n't be concerned about that ! ' Dress down ' to appear less flashy : If you do n't want to spend money , look the part . Crack out those cargos or short and t-shirts , and give the appearance you have less cash to spend . Chances are touts will get the hint and then you can have interesting chats where they too know you probably are n't going to spend money ( but even they get bored so they 'll probably chat with you anyway ) . All of this depends on your mood of course . If you are n't looking at buying anything , then be firm and do n't let yourself be swayed . There are times though when I have slow days when travelling and do n't mind chatting with shopkeepers . Be explicit . If you are n't going to buy something , tell them that upfront .
Yours spider is not listed by <URL> , so it is not forbidden to bring your pet to one of the member states if you comply with the <URL> import rules . It seems that your friend would need to apply for an import permit : For species not listed , the requirements are not known . However , exporters wanting to ship livestock or germplasm whose requirements are not listed above , should have the interested party ( importer/buyer ) in the country of destination apply for an Import Permit at the appropriate ministry . This Import Permit will most likely outline the specific requirements
There is a priority access lane at the security checkpoints used by UA . DTW &amp; UA are also on the <URL> list . That would be the better bet . Get pre-authorized by TSA and go through even quicker than priority . One thing to think about , however , is that TSA-Pre gets you through security faster and that 's it . Premier Access gets you boarded quicker ( usually ) , or " before the unwashed masses , " as the premier forums all call us regular folk . ( Personal Op-Ed here : I would n't take premier access if you gave it to me , or at least wo n't use it . I do n't like planes , and prefer to sit in the lounge until the absolutely last minute , but that 's just me . )
To answer your questions : Can I leave with my Canadian passport US law says you must leave the US " bearing " a US passport , but there is no consequence for breaking this rule . The US does n't have exit checks , so there is no practical difference what you " leave with " . and let my mother bring my U.S passport to me once it finishes processing and enter with it when I come back to the U.S ? Yes and also will the immigration know that my US passport is still processing when I present my Canadian passport when I leave ? ( that is if I do n't receive my passport by the time of my flight ) hoping to get answers on this . . As mentioned above , the US has no exit checks . So you do not " present " anything to " immigration " when you leave the US .
What ways are there of establishing and maintaining a connection ? <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Ferry from Motobu , Okinawa to Kagoshima , Kyushu ?
<URL> goes from Motobu ( 本部 ) to Kagoshima ( 鹿児島 ) around twice weekly , but the price difference is marginal : <URL> : & yen ; 15,200 in 2nd class <URL> : & yen ; 14,300 in 2nd class And by remarkable coincidence , the <URL> are precisely the same .
I called the passenger information number in Immingham and spoke with a live agent ... Foot passengers who do not have a vehicle will not be permitted to board on either side ; Passengers on push bikes may be permitted to board in the Immingham , unclear for the Brevik side ; The entry point in Immingham is covered by the same <URL> governing airlines , so the <URL> will be alerted from Brevik if they are carrying non-EEA passengers .
It depends on what you consider ' special skills ' . With some excercise , paddling should be feasible for most people . For the English Channel , you can easily find operators and boat charterers offering planning support or equipment rent : <URL> Crossing the Øresund may not be much more than 5km ( depending on where you cross ) and can obviously be done with very simple equipment . Here 's a video of two Swedes crossing on stand up paddleboards : <URL>
From Genova ( Piazza Principe or Brignole ) , take a regional train with the destination of La Spezia Centrale . There are direct trains to 3 of the 5 villages , so depending on your preference , buy a ticket to one of : Monterosso ( northernmost ) Vernazza ( 2nd from north ) Riomaggiore ( southernmost ) But note that there are many more direct connections to Monterosso than to Vernazza and Riomaggiore . To Monterosso travel time is 1h 45 min , and it costs 6.60 $ ( Nov 2012 ) . Buy the ticket from the station ; remember to stamp it on one of the Italian-flag-coloured devices near the platform before boarding the train . There 's roughly one regional train per hour , from 04:53 until about 22:00 . Here 's an example of the timetable for one such regional train : There are also direct intercity trains to Monterosso every few hours that take 1h 15min and cost 9.50 $ . For more details , try the <URL> ( e.g. Genova Piazza Principe to Monterosso ) . In my case it was slightly run-down urban 2-storey carriage with dirty windows . Not as charming as the villages , but gets you there quite smoothly . :)
It 's entirely possible , cheap , and simple . Go to the main bus terminal in Puerto Iguazu . Get on a bus going to Ciudad del Este ( it 'll likely just say ' Paraguay ' ) , and it travels across into Brazil to Foz Iguacu , and then across another bridge into Ciudad del Este . You 'll go through customs/border at Argentina/Brazil , and then ... probably again going into Paraguay . Talk to the bus driver , at this point it gets a little sketchy , but ... yeah , sometimes they just skip the border . From <URL> : Let 's just say hypothetically there 's this bus , and there 's this hypothetical driver , who upon hearing that the only non-local on the bus only wants to go into the border town , ca n't be bothered getting the tourist a stamp , drives on through the express customs lane for locals , and says he can just do the same on the way back after picking the tourist up again . Imagine that . Hypothetically of course . Hypothetically said tourist would hypothetically be in Paraguay without a visa and without a stamp , wandering around Ciudad del Este . But yes , there is a bus , and it does take you via Ciudad del Este - and indeed it continues all the way to Asuncion if you really wanted to go that far . It 's very easy , and all it really requires is you getting on the bus . But do make sure that you have a visa for Paraguay , and check whether you need one for Brazil as well .
I did a lot of googeling during the last few days and I finally found a more or less cheap flight . It seems that <URL> has regular flights from Zurich to Elba . Unfortunately I could n't find these flights neither on ebookers nor on some well-known matrix flight search engines . However , <URL> starting at 112 Euros . So it is cheaper and faster than taking the train .
SNCF <URL> runs <URL> <URL> between Grenoble and Valence ; the trip takes a little over an hour and the trains run approximately hourly . There are also buses , but they go to Valence TGV far outside the city ; you then have to take another bus into the city . Due to the strike , there is <URL> . At the moment few of the trains are announced to be running but there will be substitution buses for some of the services continuing to Valence-Ville after Valence-TGV . So you can probably make your trip ( except if you were going to take one of the evening services ) , but allow for some delay . Grenoble and Valence are in the same région but in different département and have a train connection . In such cases , it 's rare to have non-SNCF buses . I do n't have authoritative knowledge of this region , but the <URL> does n't list any likely-looking bus lines , nor do any of the département-area sites for Isère and Drôme . While it 's possible that a combination of shorter-hop buses could get you from here to there , it 's likely to end up taking all day ( many of these buses may have no midday service , and they often would n't wait for connections ) -- even if a connection exists in theory , there 'd be a risk that you 'd have to hitch-hike some of the way ( which , incidentally , is a valid option if you are n't in a hurry ) . <URL> only mentions the train and the bus via Valence TGV ( granted , I do n't know how good their coverage of regional buses is ) . So take the train or the bustitution .
Apparently OASTH has added a direct line from Macedonia Airport to the Chalkidiki KTEL . The line 's number is 79A , and it 's non stop . I 'm not sure if the line is only for the summer , it might make sense to send OASTH an email and verify the line will be in service when you plan to arrive in Thessaloniki . Getting from Thessaloniki to Vourvourou with public transportation is ... not a very good idea , the first part of the trip alone is complicated enough . You 'll need to get from the airport to the <URL> 1 station , and that 's a small adventure in itself . OASTH2 does n't have offer a straight route , you 'll need to change busses , and the route their <URL> suggests is surprisingly bad . You 'll have to go about 15Km in the wrong direction , passing through the city 's centre3 , to reach the central KTEL station and then either get a KTEL bus for Chalkidiki , or get an OASTH bus for the Chalkidiki KTEL station . The amazing thing is that the Chalkidiki KTEL station is very close to the airport , they are both at the side of Thessaloniki facing Chalkidiki , while the central KTEL station is at the opposite site . There might be another option , changing busses at the IKEA bus station , but I have absolutely no idea how frequent buses running the two routes ( airport - IKEA and IKEA - Chalkidiki KTEL station ) are , and even if this route is an option you 'll probably have to wait for a while before changing buses . Getting a taxi from the airport is the more sensible choice , it 's a 20 - 25 minute drive and it will cost you about 15-20 $ ( educated guess , and I 'm including the extra charge for your baggages ) . Once you reach the Chalkidiki KTEL station , you are looking for the next bus to <URL> . There are buses going straight to Sithonia , but depending on the then schedule it might make more sense to take the <URL> bus to Nea Moudania , and then change for Sithonia . That 's not something to worry about , all you need to do is mention that you want to reach Vourvourou when buying your ticket , they 'll let you know what the better option is . KTEL routes are pretty regular and run on time , the buses are all air conditioned and generally clean , and the current fare for Ag . Nikolaos is 11.60 $ . It might be a couple of euros more for Vourvourou . Finding a rental car in Vourvourou is not impossible , but it 's certainly not easy . The settlement is a bit scattered and if you have n't made arrangements prior to getting there , you might find yourself without a car , there are a couple of car rental services but they might not even be open in May . If you do n't have the option of making prior arrangements then ... your best bet would be Nea Moudania or Nikiti , the two more populous villages of Chalkidiki . The better option depends on how much of Chalkidiki you want to explore , if you only want to explore Sithonia , then Nikiti would be the better option , but if you also want to explore Kassandra , then both options are valid and you might get better prices at Nea Moudania . Also buses from Thessaloniki to Nea Moudania are far more frequent than to other Chalkidiki destinations . IMHO , the optimal route would be : Airport to Chalkidiki KTEL station via taxi , Chalkidiki KTEL station to Nea Moudania via KTEL bus , Nea Moudania to Vourvourou by car . Some general tips : Routine checks by traffic police are frequent in Chalkidiki , you should have your passport with you . Be very careful when driving in Kassandra and Sithonia , there are some low visibility turns that are quite dangerous . Greek drivers are a bit antagonistic , and from my experience Chalkidiki drivers are the worst . If someone tries to overtake you , just let them . 1 Intercity public transport bus service . 2 Thessaloniki urban transport organization . 3 And if we are talking middle of the day , the traffic will be horrible .
Sloterdijk was a village out of Amsterdam but has now been gulped up by the city and is part of it . Just like the villages around London are part of Greater London . It is within the city bus system area and on those buses you can use the travel passes for the city . And depending on where you want to be in Amsterdam , the bus might well be faster than going by train and take a bus from the Central station . The <URL> will tell you door to door , your hotel to wherever you want to go , how to get there . You can even set it to ' no train ' to get that out of the results . When you arrive you can ask whether there still is a bus pass that allows travel on the NS trains ( national railways ) within the Amsterdam area . I will look further and update if I do find one . An OV chip seems a good investment but you need to realize that at the start of any train travel you need to have $ 20 on it , even for just a $ 2.20 ' within the city ' run . And it has to be a different OV chip for each of you , so as a couple you can be left with about $ 35 on your cards . Officially you can get a refund for that money , but it takes time and effort and you will always lose some money . The Amsterdam tourist information office site has a <URL> and non of them includes the train within Amsterdam , apart from the ' Schiphol return ' which you already found . An <URL> mentions renting a bicycle , which might suit you . It is cheaper than three bus or tram tickets per day , but it does include some effort . Riding is safe and helmets are not used by those using utility bikes as rentals mostly are . Dutch cyclist do only use helmets when going high speed or off road , as a rule , that means that if you want to rent a bike and peddle on the bike lanes , you can do so without helmets , which makes bike rental much easier for tourists . Helmets are not only not mandatory , they are also not often used .
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
To travel between Bodrum and Datça by bus , you will need to transfer in Marmaris . If you ca n't find direct service between Bodrum and Marmaris , you can always transfer in Muğla , which is the provincial capital and a stopping point for long-distance buses travelling from north western Turkey to the western Mediterranean . If you can find an intercity bus for either leg of this trip , it will be more comfortable , but you will likely find it easier to take one of the local companies ' smaller buses since they will have more departures . Bodrum to Marmaris will probably take close to four hours thanks in part to the steep descent prior to the plain near Gökova , but it really depends on how lucky you are with a connection in Muğla . From Marmaris , there will be frequent minibuses to Datça . According to the ferry website , the cost for a one-way ticket is $ 12 . The total bus fares will exceed that , but not by a huge amount .
There is a thread on <URL> discussing exactly this topic . Which refers to 2 bus lines that offer service between Belize and Santa Helena/Flores/Tikal in Guatemala . Express Buses -- Flores / Belize / Chetumal Two Guatemalan bus companies , San Juan Express Bus Service and Linea Dorada , provide bus service between Flores , Belize City and Chetumal ; they do not make any other scheduled stops in Belize . In Belize City , buses arrive at and depart from the Belize City Water Taxi / Marine Terminal on North Front Street near the Swing Bridge . Buses operate on Sundays and public holidays . Not all buses are air-conditioned . The schedule below was in effect on 20 December 2007 but always confirm times before travel . The thread is from back in 2008 so information is a bit dated but I was able to find the companies <URL> seem to offer a stop in Belize but on <URL> and it may not work for you timewise , the other seems to be discussed at length on <URL> and not under the best of terms . There is a sort of <URL> information on which I ca n't verify but it gives you some contact information for both companies listed above so you can check prices and schedules as needed . One other company that is mentioned in the <URL> is <URL> , which actually does offer a shuttle from Belize to Flores for $ 28 the only thing is I ca n't seem to find the schedule of when it leaves Belize but you can try contacting them to check .
Here 's a <URL> about it , including a pointer to the location on <URL> . As you can see , it 's hard to find and there 's barely anything there aside from a few overgrown stone walls . The last couple of photos are of a shrine along the way , not the ruins .
Lipulekh Pass is the only place in Uttarakhand , India where the border crossing is allowed into China . But this is allowed only for the pilgrims that are part of The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra , a pilgrimage to Mount Kailash and Lake Mansarovar . It is very unlikely that other people ( other than pilgrims ) are allowed in this route .
As you can see on <URL> , Japanese ferries are operated by different companies ( every color is a different one ) . This is by the way similar to the Japanese railway and subway system . The difference from the Subway system however is that people rarely travel over several ferry routes . To make a cross-company ferry ticket is quite difficult , and due to the little usage , this was never done . So , in short , there is no such general pass for ferries .
I ca n't prove a negative , but as far as I can tell by looking at the sites of A-Line and Marix , the answer is no , they do n't offer any sort of hop-on-hop-off ticket , nor do you get any " stopovers " if you buy a longer ticket . There 's a third option from Amami to Kagoshima , the once-weekly <URL> via the tiny and obscure <URL> ( long on my personal to-do list ) , but this costs even more at & yen ; 11,620 one-way .
There are no direct connection that I 'm aware of . Your best bet is : From Ciampino to Roma Termini ( train station ) using the <URL> . The bus ticket is 3.90 Euros . From Roma Termini take the metro B line to Piramide stop From Piramide ( aka Porto San Paolo ) take the <URL>
I think I 've found it on <URL> : 福州港马尾客运站 ( Fuzhou Port Mawei Passenger Terminal ) 罗星东路77 ( Luoxing East Rd 77 ) Per <URL> , they have ferries to Matsu ( 马祖 ) every few hours . Page seems to be on the blink though , the Transport ( 交通指南 ) page is showing up blank . Give 0591-83268880 a ring ?
You may consider going to Chios and then to Cesme . Here is more information : There are many different options from Piraeus to Chios . Prices start from 22.50 $ . From Chios to Cesme , I have found one line for 25 $ . <URL> has the information related to pricing and time tables . You need to select your departure and arrival points from the menus .
Talgo train has been operating in Kazakhstan <URL> , for now there are 5 trains in Kazakhstan , and the route Almaty - Astana is <URL> , and , according to the most <URL> , it goes every day . According the <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian and Kazakh , to search , use ( Almaty ) to ( Astana ) ) , the first available tickets for this are on August , 2nd . And this site also claims that this train goes every day , so you can try to get last-chance-tickets ( some tickets can be returned by people who change their minds about using this train ) . <URL> , if you want to get to the Astana earlier than this variant .
end question
start question
Are there any restaurants in Tokyo that serve Sannakji ?
You can find it in <URL> ( Korean town ) . Searching Yelp , <URL> matching Sannakji and Shin-Okubo . Take a pick and try . Here 's <URL> of a guy eating that in Shin-Okubo in Tokyo .
There is no such visa . Every country has its own entry requirements , which will depend on your citizenship , purpose of your visit , and other criteria . While there are some supranatural agreements ( <URL> being the most significant ) that grant visa holders access to more than one country , every nation considers its ability to admit and refuse foreigners as an element of its national sovereignty and would be highly unlikely to sign on to some kind of global visa scheme like this . Now , it is the case that some passports grant more visa-free access than others . Various groups attempt to rank passports based on this , you can see one such ranking at <URL> . You 'll see that German and Swedish passport holders have visa-free access to much of the world , with many European nations , the US , Canada , Singapore , Japan , Australia , and New Zealand enjoying similar levels of access . As you go down the list , more countries require visas in advance . However , there are still caveats to such access . Even a mighty German passport-holder still needs to complete the online ETA process to visit Australia . People found ineligible through that process will generally need to obtain a visa to be allowed in . You can argue semantics all day ( and diplomats do ) about whether Australia 's ETA , the US 's ESTA , Canada 's eTA , etc. . . are really visas or not , but at the end of the day , they are hoops a traveler has to jump through before they 're allowed to travel to a country . Other countries issue a " visa-on-arrival , " which can be as simple as a counter where you pay a fee to get a stamp . Also note that , even with a visa , pretty much every country reserves the right to refuse entry at the border . Visas are also granted for particular purposes and durations of stay . Even though I , as an American , do n't need a visa to visit the UK as a tourist , I would need one to get a job there or enroll in a university . In addition , the waiver of a visa requirement does n't normally waive the need to comply with other parts of immigration law , so you could still be refused on the basis of a criminal record , lack of funds , failure to demonstrate an intent to leave , etc. . . even though you do n't need a visa . In short , immigration law differs significantly from country to country , and there 's no reason any nation would sign onto a universal visa like this . Even if such a thing existed , any country could still refuse you entry based on its own laws .
I contacted the Guernsey Information Centre , North Plantation , St Peter Port , GY1 2LQ Email : info.centre@cultureleisure.gov.gg There response was simply : " Sorry we do not have hostels in Guernsey only normal camp sites "
According to <URL> , you can find power oulets in the hallway . Even the <URL> . If you plan to use the plugs in the hallway , a good idea suggested by <URL> is to take a power strip along with you . Indeed , you may not be the only one in need of a plug !
The short answer is no , as has been said . There are a few bus lines popping up . You can check them out at <URL> and <URL> . They typically take you between SF/LA and LA/LV and that 's about it .
You 're going to have to dig really deep into the specs of the phone to answer your question . The issue is not the features themselves but the frequency spectrum on which these features are available . You can look at : <URL> <URL> to see what is typically available in Israel . From experience : IPhone 4S from AT&amp;T works like a charm in Israel for both Data and Voice . As far as I know GSM Voice Frequencies used in Israel are : 800 ( old , possibly decommissioned ) , 900 , 1800 , which IPhone and most Androids support . The rest you will have to find out . Now if you wanted to use CDMA , like Verizon does in Israel , roaming does n't work on Cellcom 's network as far as last information I have .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
OK after a couple of days of hunting I 've found three places where I get a Wi-Fi signal and can buy a coffee or a beer , but only one had a sign and with the others I 'm not sure whether the signal is from the place or a coincidental open one nearby ... " Bar Kafe Real Madrid " on Rruga Studenti right near Shesi Demokracia , the central traffic circle of the city . They only serve drinks . They are open until about 1am . Only middle aged men seem to come here . Oddly nobody ever comes to take my order if I do n't go to the trouble of going inside and asking . There are electrical sockets near some inside tables . Bar Kafe Lira on Rruga Studenti at the corner of Rruga Arkitekt Sinani . I do n't think this place has food either but espresso is just 50 cents ! I do n't think the Wi-Fi is theirs as it only worked from the outside tables to the far left as you 're facing the street . Street cafe outside the " Zona Plus " building on the pedestrian street Rruga Kolë Idromeno ( I ca n't see a name of the place anywhere including my receipt ! ) This place had no Internet sign but there 's a fast connection without password called " INTELLINET " . The connection turned bad after I was there for a while , strong signal but little data transfer . In short , it seems to me that war-walking is the best bet . Despite the warnings I received in neighbouring countries , Albania feels very safe at least here in Shkodër so I stopped worrying about wandering around with my netbook out ( - : All of these places required no password . <URL>
If you are wealthy , like people of that time who completed the Grand Tour , you may be interested in the offers of <URL> . Most European great cities are visited : London , Paris , Vienna , Prague , Budapest , Venice , Istanbul ...
Yes there are at least two . How far far east do you want ? Slightly far east : There is a ferry between Vladivostok and Takaoka . There should be a ferry between Vladivostok and Toyama . ( There may be a ferry between Vladivostok and Niigata but reports say it 's discontinued for now ) Extremely far east : There is a ferry between Sakhalin ( Korsakov ) and far northern Hokkaido ( Wakkanai ) . If it 's something off the beaten path you 're looking for I 've been wanting to do the Sahkhalin-Japan crossing for a few years . If it 's something practial you 're looking for that may not be it ( - : Here are some useful links : <URL> <URL> <URL>
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
The most common rules ( may vary of course ) : you have to remove your shoes . men : trousers , not shorts women : long skirt ( or trousers ) women : shoulder and arms can not be exposed women : scarf ( sometimes )
It 's only larger stores that offer this , but you can always ask . I found a <URL> where someone claimed the Apple stores do offer tax free purchases .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
As Έρικ Κωνσταντόπουλος , I doubt that Irrawaddy or Central region have bungee-jumping capabilities , but not based on an undated article that mentions " it may just be a matter of time " . In my case I doubt anywhere in Myanmar yet offers bungee jumping on a regular basis . From the same site as that article ( <URL> ) the question is posed : Who is going to be the first to take a leap in Myanmar ? In this case the article is dated , 26 Mar 2013 . On the Myanmar forum <URL> Maibpenrai , showing as from Bangkok/Yangon , posted shortly after the above ( 15 June 2013 - 07:57 ) : It seems to be than Bungee Jumping in Myanmar is not available yet Thereafter it is a matter of assumptions and deductions . The Burmese do not have a cultural heritage such as Vanuatu has for <URL> and the introduction of bungee jumping there can be expected to relate specifically to the expansion of tourism . ( In <URL> tourist visits numbered only 1.3 M. ) For that advertising can be expected nowadays and this OP 's failure to find what he was looking for can be taken to indicate that such does not exist ( yet ) . The signs are however that it will do before very long , so should be worth monitoring the situation .
TL ; DR : No , they do not serve sushi on planes . ( See footnote . ) To set the stage , I 've lived in Japan for several years , have traveled the length and breadth of the archipelago , and have flown <URL> on a wide selection of airlines ( JL , NH , SQ , OZ , MH , AY , QF , TK , SK , NW , TG ) , in both economy and business class -- and I 've never seen actual raw-fish-and-rice sushi on a plane , unless I brought it myself . First , on domestic flights in Japan , there is no food served at all in economy or business class , much less sushi . On JAL , a select few routes do offer simple meals in first class , but <URL> . You 're welcome to bring your own food on the plane though , including sushi , and even liquids are allowed on dom flights , although they may be scanned . Second , on international flights to Japan , the food will be prepared not in Japan , but at the catering service ( s ) at the other end , which prepare food for all flights at all airlines , not just Japan . Are they going to offer sushi ? No . Third , on international economy flights from Japan , you 've got Japanese catering firms that could offer sushi ... but do n't . Economy meals have to be cheap , reheatable and palatable to all , but as @jwenting states , sushi is expensive and perishable , and there are a lot of people -- yes , even people visiting Japan -- who dislike raw fish . That leaves only one option : business and first class flights from Japan , where ingredient cost is not such an issue and there are usually multiple choices of appetizer . But sushi is still not a great option , because raw fish has to be kept cool , but the rice turns into a hard , gluey mess if goes cold , an impossible equation in the confines of an airplane . In business class , I have occasionally seen cooked types of sushi ( grilled unagi eel , slices of futomaki rolls , etc ) , but I ca n't recall ever seeing raw fish on a plane . But rejoice ! If you 've got more cash to throw around than I do , you can still enjoy raw fish on a plane ... in First Class , since you simply ca n't do a proper Japanese kaiseki meal without sashimi . Here 's the sashimi course from Asiana on a NRT-ICN flight : ( courtesy <URL> ) And here 's a <URL> showcasing ANA 's kyo-kaiseki course , also incorporating raw fish ( well , slightly seared aburi , but close enough ) . JAL and Singapore Airlines offer kaiseki as well . But note that none of these offer sushi ( raw fish on rice ) , opting instead for sashimi ( just plain raw fish ) . This is both more accurate , since you would n't serve sushi as part of kaiseki , and does n't run into the aforementioned problem of trying to keep the fish cold and the rice warm simultaneously . Footnote : I 'm defining " sushi " as " raw fish on rice " here , which is narrower than the <URL> , but think of it this way : if someone offers you a sushi meal , and it has no raw fish , you 'd most likely feel a bit cheated , no ?
Great question , I will try to give at least a partial answer . <URL> , CAT , is more prominent where there are high mountains . The mountains might direct air up , or suck it down etc. . Making the winds normally found at any given altitude mix in such a way that air pockets are born . One example are the <URL> . BOAC Flight 911 broke-up in flight in 1966 after experiencing severe lee wave turbulence just downwind of Mount Fuji , Japan . What might not be so easy to figure out are the <URL> . In the jet streams wind has a vastly different speed compared to winds of the surrounding air , transitioning such a barrier in a plane can cause a lot of turbulence . I do n't remember exactly how those jet streams work , but I believe there are some areas where they are more or less all the time , and some areas where they are not so frequent . They are formed in areas of high temperature differences . So I say yes , there are routes with more turbulence than others . However if there are any numbers on that I 'm not sure :( As far as I can tell you are simply more likely to encounter CAT in certain areas than others . The main commercial relevance of the jet streams is in air travel , as flight time can be dramatically affected by either flying with the flow or against the flow of a jet stream . Clear-air turbulence , a potential hazard to aircraft passenger safety , often is found in a jet stream 's vicinity . With this commercial relevance in mind I am not sure if the airlines try to avoid these potential problem areas or if the economic interests are too strong .
I 'm in Istanbul right now , and when I got here I asked a friend who has been here before . According to her , no , it 's not required , but is always welcome . I have not got any noticeable negative reactions over the past week from not tipping , and very gracious thanks when I have done so , but I 'm still new to the country and may have trouble ' reading ' people if they are being polite when I have n't tipped . Usually it 's been when I have n't liked the service or felt it was already very overpriced for what was offered - not unusual in extremely touristy restaurants , for example , which you may want to avoid . Corrections welcome from native Turks , of course :) I just got a bill a minute ago for 18 lira for a coffee and two beers , and paid with a 20 lira note and no change . 2 lira = 1 dollar US/CA/AU - honestly , at that amount , it barely matters .
Basically , no . As my Colombian flatmate in London put it , every time a revolution occurs , the first thing that gets hit is the infrastructure , and down goes the rail . Not sure how accurate that is in all countries , but it 's certainly the case in Argentina , Chile , Bolivia , Peru , Ecuador , and Colombia . There are some limited train options in Argentina - from Buenos Aires to nearby cities ( like Rosario ) . However the buses are cheaper , and faster , and it 's not far , so why you 'd take the train I 'm not sure . There 's also a train from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes in Peru for Machu Picchu tourists , but that 's a few hours . Worth it though if you are n't hiking , as the views are spectacular ! There 's also a <URL> tourist train from Salta , Argentina , but it 's a one-day thing and comes back to Salta at night . However , not to worry ! The buses , especially in Argentina and Chile , are absolutely fantastic ! For example , a <URL> . They inevitably have movies , great seats that for a few extra euros you can convert to seats that become beds ( known as full-cama ) , and can get food options from crackers up to roasts ! Bolivia and Peru were n't quite as luxurious , in fact I found the buses in Bolivia painful ( but they were cheap ) , although near Lima in Peru you could find the full range of luxury if you so wanted .
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
end question
start question
Cheap pre-pay sim in Canada ?
With Fido you can get a pre-pay sim for <URL> . There are a variety of prepaid <URL> available . Personally I use the $ 10/month rate . You can change rates whenever you refill your account . From Google it looks like there are plenty of Fido stores in Vancouver . So you could pop in and pick up a sim when you arrive . The Fido website is good for managing your account . Note that I did have trouble refilling my account via the website using an overseas ( New Zealand ) credit card . If you have the same problem you can always buy refill voucher from a Fido store .
With Fido you can get a pre-pay sim for <URL> . There are a variety of prepaid <URL> available . Personally I use the $ 10/month rate . You can change rates whenever you refill your account . From Google it looks like there are plenty of Fido stores in Vancouver . So you could pop in and pick up a sim when you arrive . The Fido website is good for managing your account . Note that I did have trouble refilling my account via the website using an overseas ( New Zealand ) credit card . If you have the same problem you can always buy refill voucher from a Fido store .
If she 's there for a year , it might be worth getting a contract , as that may well be cheaper overall . As she already has the phone , she 'd want a " SIM Only " deal , if she can get it . A carrier store on/near campus ought to be used to international students , so should be able to help if possible . ( I 've had a sales guy in a small AT&amp;T shop look at me like I was from Mars when I asked to buy a PAYG sim with data ... Luckily the store manager knew what I was on about , and was delighted to at last sell one ! ) I 've not tried T-Mobile PAYG before ( AT&amp;T has always worked out cheaper for the trips I 've done ) , but I 've not heard of T-Mobile SIMs not working in unlocked phones . It certainly is n't something that was mentioned the last time I almost got a T-Mobile one ... Are you sure it is n't just that most AT&amp;T phones are locked to AT&amp;T , so ca n't be taken to T-Mobile unless you get an unlock code for them ?
So while in a hostel in Calgary , I have just noticed a poster for <URL> , a Canadian Car Relocations service in Canada . It looks exactly like what I 've been searching for , and offers cars for common destinations and routes in both Canada and the US .
This wiki is a very good source of info : <URL> Many companies offer prepaid SIM cards . <URL> is a good option . I use a <URL> SIM card , which is a re-branded blau card that is sold for 5 $ in Netto grocery stores ; other discount grocery stores ( Lidl , ALDI , etc ) have their own offerings . A one-month data plan will cost 10-15 $ . I just saw an ad for what appears to be an amazing deal from Telekom ( the largest operator ) that seems to include unlimited use of the Telekom network for only 10 $ per month : <URL>
There is no other " interesting " airport really nearby . At 172 kilometers you have the <URL> . This airport is sometimes called " Munich West " and served by some low-cost carriers . You have to go by <URL> or <URL> from Memmingen to Nürnberg . It takes almost 4 hours . Bus prices start at 11 EUR and trains at 19 EUR ( if you book early enough ) . Add 3 EUR for the transfer from the airport to the city . Another interesting option can be <URL> , next to Munich . It 's 132 kilometers from Nuremberg . It is a huge airport served by plenty of airlines . It is a bit closer to Nuremberg than Memmingen , and you have better possibilities to make the transfer by public transport . You can either take a <URL> or a <URL> . A regional train costs 22 EUR and it takes 2h45 with one change . Busses are faster ( < 2 hours ) and probably cheaper , but less frequent than the trains .
No , it 's not " always " an option . Most taxis do take credit cards , and specifically in Tokyo virtually all do ; but some do n't , so you ca n't rely on this . Minimum fares of up to & yen ; 5000 may also apply . One interesting alternative is transport smart cards : most visitors to Japan will have a Pasmo/Suica/etc , which are also increasingly accepted by taxis ( look for a little decal on the window as you get in ) . They 're very fast to use too ( tap ! ) and have no surcharges , minimum fares or other hassle .
Not sure where you 've been reading that , but I can assure you they 're quite wrong , <URL> sells every make of cheap electronics , so Chinese no-name brands and outright ripoffs are legion . Back in the day when iPhones were the new hotness and were n't officially available in Singapore yet , I remember seeing a plethora of " jPhones " , " iFones " , " iPhons " etc , all thinly disguised Windows or Linux . Some dealers are n't above selling you the real thing and slipping a clone in the bag instead , although the Tourist Board is cracking down on this pretty hard . The general rule of thumb for exploring SLS is that the higher up and deeper down you go , the more esoteric the fare on offer . To generalize , the ground floor is mercenary camera dealers and is best avoided , while the first floor is mostly mainstream audio gear , but the second floor up is all IT . The " inner ring " stores facing the atrium are fairly mainstream ( laptops etc ) , but the windowless " outer ring " stores behind them sell components , used gear , etc. . The <URL> is a good place to start hunting , most shops have their own websites . <URL> is also an excellent forum for more info .
The rules depend on the specific place you want to park and are always posted there . The city districts are in charge of parking so the specifics differ from district to district . At the moment mostly only to park in the dark red zones of the map below you need a parking ticket ( <URL> ) . Of course the districts need some <URL> after which they model their parking zones . According to section 3.1.4 parking should be generally free at the night and on Sundays . Parking is usually only charged Monday through Friday 9am to 8pm and Saturdays 9am to 6pm . The rules specifically mention the possibility to extend those times if needed in that place . So you always should check how the times are at the place you want to park ! In German that sounds this : Als Regelzeiten werden empfohlen : Montag bis Freitag 9-20 Uhr Sonnabend 9-18 Uhr . Die gesonderte Betrachtung der Advents-Sonnabende entfällt . In Einzelfällen mit hohem Gastronomie - und Freizeitanteil kann es sinnvoll sein , die Bewirtschaftungszeiten auf Grundlage entsprechender Untersuchungen in die Abendstunden und/oder auf den Sonntag auszudehnen . Die Bewirtschaftungszeiten sollten möglichst berlinweit einheitlich angewandt werden , um Irritationen der Autofahrer zu vermeiden . Translation off the top of my head : Recommended common time periods : Monday to Friday 9 a.m. -- 8 p.m. Saturday 9 a.m. -- 6 p.m. . A special consideration of Saturdays during advent is omitted . In singular cases with a high ratio of [ traffic related to ] gastronomy or leisure it may be sensible to extend [ parking space ] management time periods to the evening hours or Sunday based on suitable studies . Preferably the management time periods should be applied consistently across Berlin to avoid irritation among vehicle drivers .
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
You could try <URL> . It 's a company for cheap bus lines operated by DB . <URL> also have domestic lines .
Singapore has three mobile phone operators and given the small size of the country , their coverage is fairly similar . Their offerings are n't very differentiated for contract plans , but for pre-pay plans there are some differences . <URL> has a ' Super Surfer Pack ' that offers 1 GB of data for S$ 7 valid for 7 days . <URL> offers a mobile data plan that either costs S$ 18 for 5 days of unlimited Internet , or a S$ 32 prepaid SIM with add-on data plans ranging from S$ 3 to S$ 32 with different validity lengths and data transfer limits . <URL> has a similar offering as Singtel , offering 1GB of data for S$ 7 . All you need to get a pre-pay SIM is your passport and then you can buy the SIM cards from any convenience store , or a company-specific mobile phone shop . I also wrote about <URL> - it 's a bit out-of-date but may be helpful nevertheless .
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
I suggest <URL> I tend to avoid having to rent cars , but the few times I have , I found these guys to be the cheapest . They source car hires from multiple providers and , consistently , for me , have been cheaper than renting with the individual providers themselves .
In most border towns you can , further away not . Sometimes they might also give you small change back in CAD , or charge you a small fee for using USD . If you exchange the money in a bank you will get a much better rate . Try to pay with your Credit card whenever possible .
As they are separate countries , you will indeed need two visas - one for Canada , and one for the US . You will need to apply for each one separately . As Algeria is NOT one of the countries eligible for the US <URL> , you 'll need to apply for a visa in advance - <URL> . To get a visa , you 'll need to fill out an application from the Canadian embassy in Algeria for Canada , and the US Embassy for the United States visa . These quite often take time to process , so try and do it as soon as you know when you 're travelling - do n't leave them to the last minute !
Regarding Hostelworld their business model is not around getting payments for the hostels . They are basically an hostel directory , with some sugar on it ( they also collect user reviews and have a booking management system for the hostels ) . The value that you pay for reservation is actually earned by these websites as commission . In other words : the down-payment is not part of the hostel earnings at all . In fact , if you cancel , in most cases they keep the initial fee and the hostel looses the booking without any earning . Booking.com is a bit different as far as I know , but It 's not 100 % guaranteed that you actually pay the hostel through it . Even though full payment is available and even though you input your credit card . This will probably vary from hostel to hostel , but your credit card is collect and it may actually happen that you need to pay when arriving to the hostel . I once asked why and they told me at the hostel that they had access to my information but they did n't have any agreements with payment gateways . Another option would be to contact the hostel directly to know if they provide any means of secure payment in advance . In any case be very careful . Do n't give numbers over telephone line and assure yourself that whatever payment method alternative they give you is actually secure .
The Train looks to be quite a good bet to me . It looks like Kingston is on the main Montreal-Toronto line , for which <URL> . I just asked <URL> for details for a random weekday in about a fortnight 's time . There are 10 trains per day , a web special advanced purchase tickets start at $ 56 ( but are mostly sold out for 2 weeks time , so book early ! ) . Normal tickets are $ 65 - $ 89 , depending on how far in advance you book and how much flexibility you need . Oh , and if you do take the train , try to sit on the left hand side as you head towards Toronto - you get some stunning views out across the rivers and lakes from that side !
No each of these countries has a different set of carriers . Even where the name is similar such as Claro Peru and Claro Argentina the SIM chips do not work on each others networks . However the solution is simple . Just buy a cheap unlocked phone here ( most phones in South America that I have seen have been unlocked ) and buy a new pre-paid SIM chip in each country . They usually cost a few dollars for the chip plus whatever phone credit you want for the chip . You might need to have your passport or national ID card with you when you buy a chip or have a local friend buy it for you . This was n't required in Peru or Bolivia but was when I was in Brazil and might be in Argentina . Personally I got a quad band phone that it could work in any country in the world but if you want to save on the phone you could get a dual band ( GSM Frequencies : 850/1900 ) one that would in in South America and maybe a few other places . Nextel phones only work on their network . Carriers : Peru : Claro , Movistar , Nextel . Bolivia : Entel , Tigo , and Viva . Argentina : Claro , Movistar , Nextel , Personal . You can find info on cell phone companies and bands in other North and South American countries here <URL>
Well , if you are traveling for business or in some other arrangement where someone else is paying for airfare , achieving elite frequent flyer status in a program is quite cheap . Being the travel companion of someone who has access is another route . Somewhat more seriously , flying intercontinentally in a premium cabin ( or in a few selected services , such as United p.s. ) will also generally get you a same-day lounge invitation . Of course , it 's only a bargain if you 're on a frequent flyer award ticket or upgrade and comparing it to the full price of the ticket . Also , you may have to live with a lesser lounge if you are on an award as opposed to a revenue fare on some airlines ; I want to say Singapore Airlines is one of the persnickety ones . Some credit cards come with lounge access . The American Express Centurion card gets you into most airline lounges ; holding an AmEx Platinum card gives you Priority Pass Select access . Chase has a card that will give you United Club access . That said , the annual fees on these cards is quite substantial , comparable to the cost of purchasing a separate lounge membership . They are a value only if you already have a card , if you are switching from a comparable card that lacks lounge access , or if someone else is paying the annual fee ( e.g. your company for a business card ) . Depending on your travel patterns , it may be worthwhile to get membership in a frequent flyer program with more liberal rules about status . For example , Star Alliance Gold generally gets you access to any Star Alliance business class lounge when traveling on any Star Alliance flight . * On United Airlines it takes 50,000 elite qualifying miles in a calendar year to achieve Premier Gold , which is their lowest Star Alliance Gold level . On the other hand , to achieve Gold status on Aegean Airlines ( also Star Alliance Gold level ) , you need only 20,000 EQMs . Overall , if you mostly fly United , accruing to the Aegean program is a bad deal , as you will not be able to take advantage of United promotions or United program benefits like Economy Plus access or upgrades . But if lounge access is the main thing you care about , and you book fares that accrue at least 40 % EQMs for flight mileage , this is a faster way to get it . * Note that Star Alliance Gold lounge access is restricted if your status is in a US-based programs , i.e. United ( and formerly Continental ) and US Airways . You can not use a United Club as a United Gold Premier unless you are traveling on a same-day international itinerary . US Airways is even more restrictive , as they disallow lounge access to Gold Preferred members for most Caribbean and Central American flights as well . Similar restrictions apply for American and Delta , in the other two major alliances . Another option that may work is to purchase one-time airline lounge passes -- from someplace other than the airline . United charges $ 50 for a one-time entry into a United Club , which pretty much anyone who has been in almost any United Club will tell you is a colossal waste of money . However , sometimes people get passes as gifts or other compensation who do n't want or need them , and they may give them away or try to sell them . Depending on the type of pass and the airline in question , the pass may not be transferable , but for the ones that are , you 'll be able to shave a few dollars off entry by getting one from Craigslist or eBay . Yet another area to investigate are low-cost lounge offerings . I have n't flown them in years , but Bangkok Airways allowed anyone holding a ticket access to their lounge . Of course , the price of that was built into the ticket , and you expected to pay a little more than say AirAsia . Some airports offer non-affiliated lounges , such as the <URL> at BWI which starts at $ 17.50 . None of the above options is particularly cheap , but if everyone off the street could get into the lounge cheap and easy , there would cease to be any point going there -- it would be as noisy and crowded as the terminal .
end question
start question
Buy Prepaid SIM for use in Spain , but mailed to US ?
After <URL> in which bombs were connected to mobile phones , new law has been passed . Each and all phone lines have to be registered to a person using it . Which means that in practice , buying any SIM , including pre-paid ones , requires you to present identification and valid address in Spain . That being said , you should n't have any problems at all buying the SIM once you 're already there . Even at the airport . <URL> . Vodafone , Movistar , Orange are major providers , which have their SIM cards sold everywhere . Yoigo and Simyo are quite major MVNOs and also should be easily available . Many others are tied to supermarket chain , social network etc. .
They are not going to be ' sucked in ' . Pressure increase in the cabin ( causing inward pressure ) happens fairly gradually as the plane descends . Even in an uncontrolled dive , it will take awhile for a plane to go from cruising altitude ( 30.000 feet or so ) to 8.000 feet at which point the outside and inside pressure is about equal . The only possible rapid change in cabin pressure ( that you will hopefully never experience ) is a drop in pressure ( <URL> ) . This will cause the earbuds to be expelled from your ears ( assuming the pressure differential is large enough to overcome the friction between the earbuds and your ear canal ) because the outside pressure will now be lower than within your ear canal and thus the inside pressure will seek to normalize by expanding . So you have nothing to worry about .
It does not appear that any US passenger airlines currently operate flights within the EU . I assumed that if any such flight existed , it would be with one of the big four legacy airlines ( AA , UA , US , DL ) and at least one end would be at a major hub . I checked the Wikipedia pages for LHR , CDG , FRA and AMS , and none of them show flights on those carriers to other EU airports . However , based on those same Wikipedia pages , it does appear that the US cargo airlines FedEx Express and UPS Airlines operate many flights within the EU .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
Basically to be on the safe side , ask at each place you intend to use them . As the site you pointed out says , they may require a permit to use . <URL> also cites it as a concern : Any form of hobby that involves cameras , binoculars or telescopes may well be misunderstood by military or police officials if practiced anywhere near a government building , military site or airport . Of course , by misunderstood I mean they may arrest you , confiscate your equipment and wonder what it was you found so interesting about their military base . So , leave the bird watching or plane spotting for places where you 're less liable to look like you 're up to something dodgy basically . And the site <URL> says almost exactly the same thing : Hobbies that involve cameras and binoculars , such as bird watching and plane spotting , may be misunderstood - particularly near military sites , government buildings and airports . Long story short - it 's better to ask at your hotel , and at the ticket office or information center for every place you intend to use them . If you 're concerned , there are the built-in binoculars at the top , <URL> .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
No , there are multiple zones , mostly you have to cross from one zone to another , hence pay more . Here 's the metro zone map : They sell <URL> , you need two units ( tickets ) if you 're traveling within a single zone , three units when in two zones ( e.g. from A to B ) and four if you 're traveling between three zones . The easiest way would be getting the tickets at stations , there are vending machines and also sometimes cashiers selling those tickets .
Finally I got a 3 ( <URL> ) SIM for 1 pound and unlimited traffic data for 15 pounds . You can get a 10 pounds - 500Mb plan too . All of these things as a prepaid plan and working in less than a minute . You get a ticket with a code to set your SIM card credit and that 's all . Take a look at their plans <URL> .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
You can do that . since one-way tickets are ( almost ) always more expensive . Booking a flexible return ticket will also be more expensive than the single ticket version , but you should look into it , since it should be cheaper than the double-return tickets in most cases . But you better make sure that you know where and how to buy a ticket in Hong Kong and how much it will cost you AND you need to make sure which countries require you to have a home ticket before they let you in . You will have to show return tickets on some immigration checkpoints or even airport check-ins . If you combine several stations and not have a valid return ticket , they will not let you travel . Example : You fly to Hong Kong and stay there past the date of your intended ticket back home . You travel to Japan and then back to Hong Kong with the intention to buy a ticket back home in Hong Kong once you are there . At the check-in in Japan back to Hong Kong they will give you trouble already because you do not have a resident visa and you do not have an onwards trip booked . Due to this issue , you might be better off to buy a flexible ticket where you can change the flight back from the beginning . Unless you can determine from the beginning which countries you go to , where you will buy what ticket and where you need an ticket back home or one for an onwards flight , you will have difficulties planning the trip without running into problems . Or you book the flight back way past the intended return date - but close enough so that you are not indicating to an immigration officer that you will overstay your visa requirements . Then you just buy a new ticket to get back home instead of using your old one . ** Some more info regarding flexible tickets ** You have to know that for each flight , there are several different tickets with different prices - even if you buy at the same time from the same airline . The price depends on the flexibility of changing the ticket . If you want the cheapest ticket , you can get those , but changes can be VERY Expensive , up to the price of a new ticket . If you want to be more flexible , you will need to pay more for the ticket , but it you will be able to change it for a smaller fee . I can only recommend you to call a travel agent to help you understand your ticket options . Since most online ticket sales are geared to sell cheap tickets , those often can not be changed .
Yes , in Chile most venues will only accept Chilean pesos . It 's different across the border in Argentina though , there you will fare much better with US dollars .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
This is where you want to go . <URL> booth located in the middle of Times Square will give a discount up to 50 % on the shows currently playing on Broadway . Although I have to warn you that more popular shows and popular times are likely not to be available . What time do you need to get there will depend on the time of the show you want to see and the day of the week . Fridays and the Weekend tend to be the most popular .
According to the <URL> , the only places that the 3-day pass ( " Tokyo Subway 3-Day Ticket " ) is available in the Tokyo metropolitan area are Haneda and Narita airports and Bic Camera ( Yurakucho , Shinjuku , Akasaka Mitsuke , Ikebukuro , Shibuya East , Shibuya Hachiko , Shinjuku East , Shinjuku West , and Sofmap Akihabara ) . If you buy it at Bic Camera , you will have to show your passport in order to prove that you are eligible . ビックカメラ有楽町店 、 ビックロ ビックカメラ新宿東口駅前店 、 ビックカメラ赤坂見附駅店 、 ビックカメラ池袋本店 、 ビックカメラ渋谷東口店 、 ビックカメラ渋谷ハチ公口店 、 ビックカメラ新宿東口店 、 ビックカメラ新宿西口店 、 ソフマップ秋葉原本店 ※ 訪日外国人旅行者のみ購入可能 ※ パスポート等にて旅行者であることを確認します 。 If you are in Asakusa , the nearest would be the Sofmap Akihabara store or the Bic Camera Akasaka Mitsuke store .
That 's the kind of gear I 'd use when going to hike well into subzero temperatures . Attempting to hike in such a gear at +20 ° C , especially in humid air , you 'll not be comfortable at all . It 's a total overkill . Especially the pants . What I 'd use for such a hike : t-shirt , preferably non-cotton stay-dry kind ; soft shell fleece jacket ( Windstopper or equivalent ) waterproof , breathable jacket ( Gore-Tex or equivalent ) breathable hiking trousers ( not thermo insulated , either waterproof or quick drying ) waterproof , breathable hiking boots ( tall ones ) For sleeping at temperatures -5 ° C what you really need is not huge amount of clothes , but decent sleeping bag . With filling made either of goose down , or even better synthetic . You can find sleeping bags rated to as low as -30 ° C . As far as I know , in Cuzco you should n't expect torrential rains at that time of a year ( or much any rain at all ) . So rain poncho does n't seem necessary . Does n't weight much though , so you might take it just in case . Preferably the kind that also covers your backpack . Especially if your backpack is not waterproof .
It is possible ( for an unusually knowledgeable travel agent ) , but not easy . There are two fields in the PNR for each airline , the FQTV field ( frequent traveller number for mileage earning ) and the FQTS field ( frequent traveller number for status purposes ) . These can be set to different values . But airline IT systems are not always designed to understand that this can happen , so even if you manage to find a travel agent who understands what you are talking about , it is not guaranteed to work . If you use a tool like the free MyFlights tool , it will tell you which numbers you have attached to the booking and whether they are FQTV or FQTS ( or another type of FQT number ) . MyFlights is only available for Amadeus bookings .
Euros are your best bet . The North Korean won is not convertible , and all facilities for tourists price in and accept euros . Koryo Tours , the largest operator of DPRK tours , <URL> : Currency The official exchange currency in DPRK is now Euros ( USD were taken out of circulation in 2003 but can still be used though we advise you bring Euros ) . It is possible to exchange other currencies ( such as Pounds , Yen , Renminbi , HK Dollars ) in the hotel but be aware that the rate will not be in your favour , better to change the money before entering the DPRK . We do not recommend taking in travellers cheques as they are difficult to cash . Economic reforms at the end of 2002 mean that the DPRK Won is now valued at roughly 165 won to 1 Euro . It may be possible to get hold of real DPRK money in the hotel but the best currency to use when buying goods remains the Euro .
Ceuta and Melilla are administered by Spain ( though Morocco disputes their sovereignty over the cities ) . Both countries maintain border controls at the borders and Spain has built border fences around both cities . Residents of the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador have a special local border crossing scheme whereby <URL> ( but they can not enter mainland Spain or the rest of the Schengen area ) . Moroccan nationals living in other provinces can obtain a limited territorial validity visa from Spain for those cities only . ( b ) The specific arrangements for visa exemptions for local border traffic between Ceuta and Melilla and the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador shall continue to apply . ( c ) Moroccan nationals who are not resident in the provinces of Tetuan or Nador and who wish to enter the territory of the towns of Ceuta and Melilla exclusively shall remain subject to the visa requirement . The validity of these visas shall be limited to these two towns and may permit multiple entries and exits ( " visado limitado múltiple " ) in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 ( 3 ) and Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1990 Convention . Notably , while the cities are part of the Schengen area , there are passport checks upon departure by air or ferry , in order to ensure that Moroccan visitors without visas and illegal immigrants can not migrate to Europe or elsewhere . ( e ) Pursuant to its national law and in order to verify whether passengers still satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the 1990 Convention on the basis which they were authorised to enter national territory upon passport control at the external border , Spain shall maintain checks ( on identity and documents ) on sea and air connections departing from Ceuta and Melilla and having as their sole destination any other place on Spanish territory . To the same end , Spain shall maintain checks on internal flights and on regular ferry connections departing from the towns of Ceuta and Melilla to a destination in another State party to the Convention . There 's no provision that I can find for Tunisian nationals , so it appears that <URL> .
Short version : No , you do n't need a new ESTA . Longer version : Since you have an ESTA , you are presumably the citizen of a <URL> country . This means you are allowed to enter the US " <URL> " , which includes both your honeymoon and your academic conference . The ESTA is , in legal theory , not a visa , it 's just a " travel authorization " that pre-certifies that you likely meet the VWP conditions . It 's valid for unlimited visits for any valid reason during its two years of validity , assuming you continue to meet the VWP terms .
One option would be to bring cash with you , convert it to Iranian currency and then buy something called " Gift Card " from a bank . You can easily obtain them from most of the well-known banks without having an account . You can use these cards to buy stuff almost anywhere within the country . They are also password protected and only the owner can use them . In case you lose them or get them stolen , you can contact the issuing bank to block the missing card and get another one . This is just one of the ways that can help you avoid carrying money . There might be other ways too :) Update : A new card <URL> called Tourist Card : Bank Melli , Iran 's first national bank , plans to issue a debit card exclusively for foreign tourists visiting the country . Issued under the title ' Tourist Card ' , visitors can apply for the charge card at the Bank Melli branch of Imam Khomeini International Airport , said a report in Tehran Times . With all charges converted and billed in the local currency , the card limit will be set at $ 5,000 or $ 5,000 . The tourist card will be valid for the length of stay of the visitors and any remaining money in the card will be reimbursed , the report said . The card can be used at the issuing bank 's ATM 's across the country as well at points of sale ( POS ) and online shopping . The bank plans to issue the cards in more than four Iranian cities , which are yet to be determined , the report said . And <URL> the official website of Iran Melli Bank , which has fully introduced this new card : It is a card in Iranian Rial which is issued for tourists against foreign currencies received from them with designated expiry date and it can be used in whole Iranian banking system . A Tourist Card is given to clients with exclusive passwords . There are two passwords for each card . First password is to be used when the card is used to buy by POS and the second password is used for internet buying . Both passwords can be changed by the holder of the card . Specifications of Tourist Card : It can be used through whole Iranian banking system Cash can be withdrawn only in BMI ATMs . Funds can not be transferred to Tourist Card Cards can be used to buy through internet , their passwords can be changed and funds can be transferred from Tourist Card to other cards . The remaining cash in Tourist Cards can be converted to foreign currencies and paid to customers . The expiry date of Tourist Card will be the date when clients ' visas are expired . The limit of charging these cards in $ 5,000 Customers can be informed about the remaining balance of Tourist Cards through Bank Melli Iran 's website ( www.bmi.ir ) , all ATMs throughout the country and all POS systems . Customers can take billing statements and be informed about the breakdown of their Tourist Card transactions in BMI ATMs .
end question
start question
How do I redeem airline vouchers when booking through a website ?
UPDATE : The type of vouchers mentioned in this question no longer exist , and thus this question and all answers for it are no longer relevant to any vouchers that anyone may have ! It sounds like what you 've got is a " Type B " voucher . You should have 5 or 6 pieces of paper - one covering terms and conditions , ( possibly ) one with a summary , and then 4 vouchers , each of which is for $ 100 giving a total of $ 400 . On each of the vouchers it should state " Treat as Type B Voucher " . " Type B " vouchers are basically able to be used as payment for any United/United Express/Continental flight . This is different to many other United vouchers ( aka " E-Certificates " ) which give a " discount " on the fare , rather than being treated as payment for the normal fare . You can use one or more of the $ 100 vouchers on a single booking , although you will not receive any credit for using only part of a voucher . eg , if your flight cost is $ 280 , you can give them 2x $ 100 vouchers and pay $ 80 , or you can give them 3x $ 100 vouchers but you will lose the additional $ 20 . Unfortunately you ca n't book flights with " Type B " vouchers online - you need to go via the United call center . If you 're a Mileage Plus member you can reach them at the number on your card ( which may take you to a dedicated reservations center , depending on your status ) . If you 're not a MP member , you can call 1-800-UNITED-1 ( aka 1-800-864-8331 ) . Note that there is NO charge for a phone booking when using a voucher ! Normally you would be charged to book over the phone , but they will waive this when booking with a voucher . Depending on the agent you get it 's possibly they will try and charge you a fee - if they do , just remind them that you are using a " paper voucher " and they will remove the fee . Once you 've booked your ticket the booking will be placed on hold until you pay for it by getting the voucher ( s ) to United . You can do this by either mailing the vouchers to United ( I 'd suggest registered mail , just in case ! ) or you can take the vouchers to a United ticket counter at any airport . Personally I 'd suggest going to the airport - it may cost you a little more , but it gives you the piece of mind of knowing that the vouchers are n't going to get lost . If your flights are less than 2 weeks away this is the only option they will offer you .
I contacted them and I got this response : When booking , select " place booking on hold " ( screenshot :) Then , call them and give the paper voucher code and the booking number that you will see in the next page . They will adjust the price for you to pay . After that , mail the voucher to their address , ( like e-mail was never invented ... VERY ironic compensation to give to someone that complained saying that their systems are outdated ) .
First of all , globally speaking , lactose tolerance is the deviation and not lactose intolerance . Just about one fourth of the world 's population keep the ability to digest lactose after growing up/breast feeding , an ability achieved through genetic selection and most prominent in the cattle keeping population of northern Europe . In Sweden , only 2 % of the population is lactose intolerant , but this number increases to 15-25 % in Germany , 50 % in Italy and even 70 % on Sicily . In East Asia and the southern parts of Africa and South America , 90-100 % of the population is lactose intolerant . So why are lactose free milk products so common in Scandinavia , where they do not seem to be medically required , at least not as often as in many other countries ? Why can Italians drink their cappuccino or latte with regular milk , even if half the Italians are lactose intolerant ? EFSA ( the European Food Safety Authority ) concluded in <URL> that most people with lactose intolerance can tolerate up to 12g of lactose in a single intake or 20-24g of lactose on a daily basis with no or only minor symptoms . For regular cow milk , this corresponds to a single intake of about 250ml or daily intakes of 400-500ml . Obviously , lactose intolerance is not necessarily an argument for using lactose free milk products in coffee drinks . It is however often claimed that the alleged health benefits from lactose free milk products is merely a marketing gag . Scandinavians are mostly wealthy enough to pay extra , even just for the belief that they are doing something good for their body and soul .
Upon landing at Abu Dhabi ; you and your luggage will be subject to an x-ray scan . At this point , any suspicious items will be confiscated . Although you are not importing items into the UAE ( as you never enter the country , but are in transit ) nevertheless any goods deemed inappropriate will be seized . You do run the risk of having the item confiscated but nothing more .
As a developer of some search engine for the Amadeus ( one of the major companies who provides the air-tickets search ) , I can say : Yes , you can , but you should find the site working with Amadeus and provides such option to the search . This option is not as popular as flexible-dates-feature , but you still can try to search such sites . I 'll do my best to find them : <URL> - use the " Add nearby airports " checkbox and " Customs " menu . <URL> - the same menu , because the search engine is provided by Amadeus
What you are trying to do is " hidden city ticketing " and it 's forbidden by AA 's <URL> , so I would not expect them to make it easy for you to accomplish this . I would think that if you try to split the itinerary , they will compute the total fare for one-way trips EWR-PHL and PHL-PIT and then charge you for the difference above what you have already paid , perhaps in addition to a change fee of $ 100 - $ 200 if your original ticket was non-refundable . So this is even worse than just changing your itinerary to PHL-PIT .
You do not need a return ticket , as long as you can show a proof ( e.g. , letter ) that says come and collect your residency card ; In case the staff ask you about the intent of your trip to Denmark .
Shamelessly converting <URL> in a answer , <URL> is a website which allows you to compare diving prices by location ( <URL> ) , and <URL> . They even have <URL> .
You can go the airport 's website . There you will usually find a list with the departures and the arrivals of the day and sometimes even the seasonal flight plan in pdf format . For Zurich , have a look at <URL> . Some airports have apps for smartphones and/or mobile versions of their websites which show live departures and arrivals.If you have a smartphone , you can then check immediately . This only works for commercial passenger flights . For cargo flights or private flights you will have to stick to a more classical method , and use e.g. an airliner identification book . For a recommendation , you could ask on a dedicated site , such as e.g. <URL> . Obviously , with this method you wo n't find out anything about destination or the provenance of the aircraft .
The Canadian Government provides a <URL> to determine which possibilities you have to visit Canada and if a visa is required . In addition to your citizenship , there are a few other issues which may be relevant to determine the requirements , e.g. country of residence , any relationship with Canadian citizens , age or any previous permanent residence in Canada . Going through the questionnaire , you will be asked for all relevant details to determine the requirements for your stay . Basically , as a French citizen living in France , you can stay for up to 6 months as a tourist without a visa . If you want stay longer , you can apply for an extension of stay from within Canada . You should do this at least 30 days before the initial 6 months expire . I have the impression that Canadian immigration requirements are pretty relaxed , so if you have available means to finance your stay without working , I would assume that you should not experience any problems doing this .
If you book two passengers in one booking , you 'll always get a single receipt . Now , to answer points 1 and 2 you raise : the prices is going to be higher only if no more seats are available at the same price . Many online flight search sites DO give a notification of the number of seats left at a particular price if they 're running low . For instance , Kayak has a small icon showing this , next to where they show the icon for ' red-eye ' flights . Seating is often not allocated during the booking process , but rather during the check-in process , so this question is moot when booking . Even if it allows you to choose seats during booking ( perhaps as a paid add-on to your ticket or if you 're higher up in the frequent flyer tier ) , you can always choose later on during check-in where you want to sit . Finding seats together is usually a bigger problem for large groups , not couples . And if you want to ensure it , choose seats during web check-in rather than leaving it for airport check-in . Or you could just <URL> .
There 's little you can do , apart from the obvious , depending how thorough you want to be : Check the photos - see if it shows the dorms and the layout Check the reviews , hopefully you left a review about it , and others may have too . Email them - ask the layout of the room and any other suitable questions . Or even call them - a friendly chat will also let you know their level of English , which can be useful to know in advance .
This is a common situation , and it 's generally no problem . I 'll use A for the country you 're in , and B for the country you 're going to , but all the " flows " described here work equally well if you want to use your B passport to go to a third country . Case 1 : Same name , dual citizenship OK If you have the same name in both passports ( that is , same first name and last name , minor variations are OK ) , and both countries accept dual citizenship ( if you 're not sure , <URL> ) , the basic formula is : Show the airline the passport of the country you 're going to Show immigration the passport for the country you 're in In step-by-step detail , when flying from A to B and back : At check-in , show your B passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your A passport . ( In countries without exit immigration , like the US , you may need to show A as well at check-in . ) At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . And on the way back from B to A , just reverse the process : At check-in , show your A passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Pictorial representation for a UK/US dual citizen visiting the US , courtesy <URL> : <URL> Case 2 : Different names , dual citizenship OK If your names are different , but your countries are OK with each other : Book your flight with the name on your A passport . At airline check-in , show your A passport that matches the name on your ticket , and your B passport , that proves you 're allowed to enter . At exit immigration , show your A passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , at check-in , show your A passport only . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly back . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Case 3 : Same name , dual citizenship not OK Things get harder if one or both your countries does not accept dual citizenship , especially if they care enough to look for visas or arrival stamps . The key thing to understand here is that the airline is not a part of immigration . They do not care if you have multiple passports and they are not going to tell immigration if you do , all they want to know if whether you will be allowed in at your destination . So here 's one way to avoid letting A know you are also a citizen of B : Book a flight from A to B via a neutral third country C , where you do not need a visa . ( For example , Malaysia does not accept dual citizenship , so dual-citizen Malaysians often travel via Singapore . ) On check-in , show your A passport . At exit immigration , show your A passport . Fly to C. Connect to your flight to B . At arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , though , you will need a short detour : At check in , show your B passport . At exit immigration , show your B passport . Fly to C. On arrival at C , do not go to transfer , but instead go to immigration , show your A passport and get it stamped . ( Leave enough time for this ! ) If you need to check-in again , show your A passport . At C 's exit immigration , show your A passport again and get it stamped again . Fly to A . At arrival immigration , show your A passport . This will have a departure stamp from C , neatly hiding that you were actually in B. Beware that this is not totally foolproof , as a very careful inspection of your stamps will reveal that you were not in C for the whole time , but unless you 're North Korean , it 's unlikely you will be subjected to this level of scrutiny . Some people choose to go through immigration in C on the way out as well , so they get more decoy stamps . Case 4 : Different names , dual citizenship not OK If you have different names and your countries do n't like each other , you can still use the same method as above , but you 'll likely need to to book your A-C-A flight in your " A " name and your C-B-C flight in your " B " name .
Yes . Anything off the main drag is going to have loose impediments , and a single nick/dent/ding is going to cost a LOT more than the insurance itself . Better safe than sorry , and I learned this the hard way during my trip to Iceland in Jan 2013 .
No you do n't . You can transfer to other terminals and exit there . However , you must be travelling with hand luggage only , otherwise you will have to return to the original terminal land-side to collect your luggage , which would be difficult as you would need to get past customs to collect it . Here 's an <URL> on flytalk . One of the quirks of the airside transfer buses and the flight connection areas in each terminal is that you can arrive on an INT flight at T5 but cross the UK border at another terminal . In fact you can also do this in reverse , so arrive on an INT at T3 for example , and cross the UK border at T5 . Whilst this is not really recommended normally , you may wish to do this if you have your car or left luggage at another terminal or you find the UK border at the terminal you arrive at to be very busy .
For domestic flights in the US , the cheapest price is almost always on the airline 's website . Additionally , airlines sometimes include other benefits like additional frequent flyer miles , reduced baggage fees etc. for booking directly through their site . Online travel agents such as Expedia , Travelocity , Orbitz etc. can sometimes find flight combinations that you can not book directly through a single airline . This can be useful when there is no single airline ( or airline alliance ) that serves your route . This is not common for domestic trips , but can happen sometimes for international flights between more minor destinations . There is also the convenience of using a single site with all your information already stored instead of having to navigate a different a airline site every time you make a reservation . This can be especially useful for foreign airline websites which are sometimes more difficult to use and can be troublesome with foreign credit cards . Finally , if you book through an online travel site , they become your " agent " and can take care of things such as cancellations , schedule changes etc. . You might find it more convenient to speak to an English speaking customer service agent on a 1-800 number than calling a foreign airline which may not have a toll-free number or even a number at all in the USA .
Short answer , you ca n't . However , you can at least make sure they have an official license , and any other accreditation which might lend some credence to their claims . Look for ones that are licensed by the <URL> , and consider <URL> , to see if anyone has mentioned them or complained about them . All you can do is research , and ask around when you get there as well . Or consider approaching the companies and ask them directly - I 'm sure you 'd not be the first , even if it is rather brazen ;)
On average airlines open flights for bookings around 330 days prior , so May dates may not yet be open depending on the airline and route . You can test route options by simply looking at earlier dates ( say March or April ) just to see if many more options show . While it is not a guarantee , it does give you a starting point .
Car rental is one of the most obscurely priced services with varying conditions . It is very hard to predict and my advice regarding car rental bookings is " compare " . Compare multiple car rental agencies , compare with brokers , compare with the deal you can get booking with an airline or online travel agent ( OTA ) . The reason you are suggested this car rental is not so much that they are offering you a particularly good deal but just that the OTA - or Emirates , through their ecommerce department - is making a margin on every flight/hotel room/car rental booking ( or in the case of flights on all the small extra called ancillaries , like seat reservation , upgrade , shuttle ... This margin is usually the same for all bookings on one provider ( to be confirmed ) and is determined by the GDS ( which is the bookings wholesalers ) . Specifically regarding car rentals , there are some conditions that vary depending who sells you the package , like insurances , included kilometers , driver 's age ... There are a lot of fees for options like additional driver , fuel refills , one-way rentals . So overall the price depends more on these - and they also often matter to you - so that every booking price is different ( <URL> ) . I just tried to book a car rental through the airline I booked a flight with recently ( they apparently have a contract with <URL> ) and compared with a booking from the website of the same rental agency and in 2 cases I got a lower rate using the airline link . I tried with another booking with another carrier and this time it was through an OTA . In that case the booking through the rental agency was priced the same but maybe the insurances were not exactly the same ( I could not see the conditions ) . In the end what matters is that the price of a car rental with a specific combination of options might be different based on who sells it to you ( the rental agency , an online travel agency or a broker ) . In my experience , the broker was usually cheaper , but I would not consider it a rule . And the conditions - especially the liability insurance - are not always clear . I make a point always reading the conditions ( at least insurances and distance limits ) because there might be tricks . So if the price matters to you , get a quote with Emirates , go to the rental company website and get another quote , and go to an online travel agent like Expedia/Hotwire / ... and get a third quote . Compare the prices and the conditions and pick your favourite .
Normally , you do n't need to mail your passport right away . They first process your online application , and then request your passport only when/if you 're approved-in-principle . You would then send it to <URL> ( or there may be visa processing centres throughout Brasil , I 'm not sure ) . Disclaimer : I 've only dealt with Russia , the process for Brasil may be different , you should read the rules online . As for how long it takes : I only have experience with the Moscow office , but I had a great experience with it . I 've seen two applications where the visa was approved in 4 working days ( that 's 4 days until they sent the passport request , plus the mailing time of the passport back and forth of course ) , even though the official waiting time is something like 45 days . But of course , apply as early as possible .
end question
start question
US Domestic Flight changed to different connecting city and lengthen , can I get compensation ?
Your compensation , if any , is governed by the <URL> you agreed to by purchasing the ticket , which in this case states ( emphasis added ) RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS American will endeavor to carry you and your baggage with reasonable dispatch , but times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . American may , without notice , substitute alternate carriers or aircraft and , if necessary , may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket . Schedules are subject to change without notice . American is not responsible for or liable for failure to make connections , or to operate any flight according to schedule , or for a change to the schedule of any flight . Under no circumstances shall American be liable for any special , incidental or consequential damages arising from the foregoing . In the absence of any superseding regulation or legislation -- of which there is none , as the origin and connection are both in the U.S. , which <URL> -- American is not required to give you anything . Despite the new routing , they still fulfill their fundamental obligation , which is to transport you from city A to city B . At best , you could request a refund for the ticket -- though this would necessitate purchasing a new one , which being closer to departure is more likely to be more expensive . If you are an elite frequent flyer with them or on one of the more expensive fares , they may be willing to give you some miles or other token gestures for the inconvenience , but purely in the name of customer relations . Some version of this paragraph is included in most airlines ' contract of carriage . The airline is similarly under no legal obligation to compensate you , notably , for switching a nonstop flight to a connecting flight , a frequent complaint . The same goes for equipment changes -- you may have purchased a ticket expecting a widebody in a three-class international configuration , but have no recourse if it gets swapped for a one-class turboprop at the last minute .
Not quite sure what the question is . You could book a tourist trip to the USA and ask for a visa for that . If you want to wait till April 20th after you get the ticket you need to check the <URL> to get a visa interview appointment and the processing time . I checked for Chennai and it 's a week to appointment and one working day to get a visa . Delhi is only 2 days longer . Aka you have enough time . Or are you asking whether you will be given the visa just for that ? We ca n't answer that . Attending a conference is a perfect reason for a <URL> but whether you have enough ties and funds is something only they will decide .
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
There is an official " minimum connecting time " for each airport . For international airports , there are usually separate " minimum connecting times " specified for domestic to domestic , domestic to international , international to domestic , and international to international . At larger airports there may even be longer minimum connecting times when you are changing airlines . Believe it or not , the data is not readily available online . Here are some places to find an official minimum connecting time , sorted in order from most authoritative to least authoritative : The official source is the IATA , which publishes the Airline Coding Directory , which costs hundreds of dollars . A much cheaper way to get the same data is to get the <URL> . Since minimum connecting times do n't change very often , I recommend just buying one copy of an outdated OAG Pocket Flight Guide on ebay for a couple of bucks . Call any airline involved in your itinerary . Tell them you would like to know the minimum connecting time for the airport in question . They 'll know exactly what you 're talking about and look it up for you . Airlines sometimes publish minimum connecting times on their websites or in their timetables , usually only useful when you are connecting on the same airline . But if you are connecting on the same airline , you do n't have to worry about this , because they will not book you on a connection which is shorter than the minimum connecting time . Remember that minimum connecting times are only estimates . Your first flight might be late . US Immigration may be overloaded . The airport train may break down . The security check in for the second flight may be really long . Due to all the steps involved , international to domestic transfers are always terrible and should be avoided if at all possible . You are literally better off transferring through a third country that has good international - > international connections ( Vancouver , Amsterdam , and London Heathrow Terminal 5 are all great for international to international ) if that allows you to enter the US at your final destination . So for example if you 're travelling from Europe to Detroit , you 're WAY better off changing planes in Amsterdam than at JFK . If you 're travelling from Seoul to San Diego , you 're WAY better off changing in Vancouver than SFO or LAX . Etc. . Like everything , " IT DEPENDS , " so please feel free to ask a more specific question -- at the very least we need to know what airport you 're connecting at and which airlines you 're using .
Yes , you are fine bringing a bag of protein powder in your carry-on . The <URL> ( which it would probably be considered ) to be wrapped and to be sent through the X-ray machine at the security checkpoint , but so long as it is <URL> it is n't banned . Note that , especially since it wo n't be in its original container , they may want to <URL> . The same goes for any powder ( e.g. powder makeup , sugar , dietary fiber supplements , talcum , Gatorade ) . It goes without saying that powders which are hazardous materials ( e.g. explosive or corrosive ) are banned of course .
Yes , U.S. Customs and Border Protection can and does search electronic devices entering the country . No , it does not matter if the device belongs to a US citizen or not . There have been <URL> about this practice , but so far the courts have decided it does not constitute unreasonable search and seizure since the searches occur before the traveler has entered the country , they are happening " outside " of the USA and probable cause does not apply . U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents encountered more than 221 million travelers at U.S. ports of entry and performed about 1,000 laptop searches . Of this number , 46 were considered " in-depth , " meaning the agents examined individual files . Source : <URL> It 's not clear if you would be forced to give a password during a laptop search , but it seems likely that not doing so could be used as grounds for seizure of the laptop or denying entry to a non US citizen . EDIT : Edited to be clearer that US citizens can not be denied entry into the US as pointed out by @littleadv . EDIT December 2013 court case finds against EFF : <URL>
Several years ago IATA ( International Air Transport Association ) recognized that baggage charges on tickets which multiple carriers were a mess . For example , if you were flying a domestic flight on one airline followed by an international flight with a different airline then there was little consistency around how you would be charged for checked bags - especially if the airlines had different " free " baggage allowances . In order to resolve this problem , IATA passed Resolution 302 which sets the rules for how baggage allowances and charges should be applied on multi-airline itineraries . The rules in Resolution 302 are not simple , and they are not intended to be used directly by humans at check-in counters - but instead are intended to be built into the booking/check-in systems of airlines so that the correct price can be calculated by the system . Google will find no end of references on <URL> for you , but in short it states that the baggage rules of the " Most Significant Carrier " ( MSC ) apply . To work out the " MSC " for a flight you need to understand how IATA " regions " work , but for a simple case like an domestic flight followed by an international flight ( or vica versa ) the baggage rules/fees of the carrier operating the international flight will apply . Do not confuse which airlines rules/fees apply with who will actually charge you those fees . If you are flying a domestic flight on one airline followed by an international flight with another , then the international carriers rates will apply - but they will be charged by the first airline you fly - ie , the domestic carrier . The implementation of this resolution by carriers is still patchy . Although most ( all ? ) larger airlines have implemented the rules , many smaller/regional carriers have not . There are also issues introduced when non-standard rules apply to a passenger , such as when you have status on an airline which results in free baggage ( especially for a flight other than the first ) where the systems are not necessarily capable of correctly calculating the fees .
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
Do n't you hate that ? ;) Sadly , no , if you miss a leg of a flight at any point on a ticket , they 'll cancel ALL other legs of the flight . So unless you can get yourself to Allentown , you are unable to take that flight . It 's for various reasons , logistics , regional pricing , airport taxes , but basically , no , you ca n't . <URL>
No , you should not have to re-apply . From the <URL> Website : Your ESTA authorization is generally valid for multiple trips over a period of two years ( starting the date that you are approved ) or until your passport expires , whichever comes first * . This means that as long as you received an ESTA authorization to travel , you do not have to reapply during the validity period . If you are concerned , and assuming you will exit immigration and stay in the US before boarding your connecting flight , you can retrieve your application to check it 's validity and update your US address if necessary <URL> .
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
Assuming you are flying through on the same airline or partner airlines and your bags are checked through , then no visa needed . ( CZ-CZ or CZ-KE ) If by chance you are changing carriers / alliances , you need to ask the airline originating in New York if they can check your bags through to the connecting airline . If the bags can not be checked through you will need a transit permit go claim your bags and then check them in for your next flight .
Nothing is going to beat Thalys time-wise and Paris-Nord is n't too far away from the center as far as long-distance " departure points " ( whether airports , train stations or bus terminals ) go . You simply need to combine Thalys with a subway , RER or taxi ride from wherever you find yourself . Even if you could find a bus starting closer to your actual point of departure , it 's going to be much slower . Trains other than the Thalys will also leave from somewhere else and/or require several connections or a long travel time . Both solutions could be considerably cheaper , however . Ridesharing could also be a way to save some money and leave directly from another part of the city than the train station but it requires a lot of flexibility and would not be very fast either so it probably does not meet your requirements . Also , among the main central sights , the Arc de Triomphe and Champs de Mars are already a bit away from the very center of Paris . You could plan your sightseeing to start there in the morning and end up near Châtelet / Les Halles , Saint-Michel -- Notre-Dame , Cité ( close to the île de la Cité , the Louvres or the Tuileries ) or another station on subway line 4 or RER line B or D. Same thing if you intend to see the Grands Boulevards , Montmartre or the Opéra area ; go there last , not before seeing the Champs-Élysées or the 1st arrondissement .
As far as I know , Delta , like most other airlines , does n't give customers the option to directly buy tickets with a combination of miles and cash . The closest option I know of is that you can use money to buy miles ( see the " SkyMiles " tab on the Delta home page ) . You could buy the additional miles that you need , then book the flight using miles only . Unfortunately , the pricing for buying miles is pretty unfavorable . You do n't get to see the prices until you log in ( so they may offer different prices to different people , perhaps depending on elite status ) , but for me , the price is 3.5 cents ( USD ) per mile , in 2,000 mile increments . ( So you could get 4,000 miles for $ 140 or 6,000 miles for $ 210 . ) I usually figure the fair value of a mile is about 1 cent or less , so these miles are overpriced by a factor of 3.5 . You may want to consider paying cash for this flight ( which also gives you the choice of shopping other airlines ) , and saving your miles until you have either earned some more , or want to go someplace cheaper .
As long as you have proof of exit from the US , that is all US customs and immigration will care about . I think you can safely relax and go through the normal shuffle of collecting your bags and rechecking them in for your onward flight , etc. .
Call the airline to see if they have any suggestions . <URL> In the event you arrive at the airport without valid identification , because it is lost or at home , you may still be allowed to fly . The TSA officer may ask you to complete a form to include your name and current address , and may ask additional questions to confirm your identity . If your identity is confirmed , you will be allowed to enter the screening checkpoint . You may be subject to additional screening . You will not be allowed to fly if your identity can not be confirmed , you chose to not provide proper identification or you decline to cooperate with the identity verification process .
As long as you have spare baggage allowance , you remain landside , and you allow sufficient time , you should n't have any problems checking an additional bag . You might get a query , but as long as there 's time and spare allowance , it ought to be fine . ( If you 've used your allowance and want to pay to check another bag for only part way , you may have more issues as they may struggle to price it , YMMV ) There 's a few times when I 've actually done this very thing , almost always involving duty free and an onward domestic flight . What I 'll often do is put a rucksack or similar at the top of my suitcase , which is otherwise full , then buy some duty free before boarding my US-bound flight . On arrival , I collect my bag before customs , clear customs , then find a spare bit of space before the re-check counter . Here , I take out the rucksack , take out some clothes that do n't mind getting bashed about , and re-pack the suitcase with the duty free safely in the middle . ( We have a question on that topic ! ) . I drop the suitcase off . Then , I head over to the counters , show them my boarding pass , and ask to check a small bag . They scan the boarding pass , check the allowance , print a new tag for the rucksack , and away I go . However , the last time I did this , they gave me a tag for my rucksack , then sent me over to the baggage re-check area to drop it off . This meant queueing up with everyone else , and having the baggage handlers take the piss out of me for wanting to re-check such a small bag ... !
You can look up a comparable flight for today on <URL> . This is best done as close to your date of departure as possible , as terminal use may change occasionally . You can usually see tomorrows flights as well . For example : <URL> <URL> The websites of the respective airports will also usually have this information , especially the outbound airport . Terminal info on arrivals varies between airport websites .
<URL> has information going back several years . Their level of coverage is generally excellent , although it can vary a little depending on the airline/location . You will need to create a free account in order to view data more than a few days old . Specifically for your flight they do n't have any specific information , only scheduled information that the flight was from Zurich ( ZRH ) to Amsterdam ( AMS ) , departing at 7:25 PM and arriving at 9:00 PM on an Embraer RJ170/190 . The lack of information could mean that there is a hole in their data , or it could mean that the flight did not fly for some reason ( ie , it was canceled ) . Checking that same flight for days before and after there is full information available .
end question
start question
What ski resort in the US/Canada is reachable from Europe ?
There are literally hundreds of ski resorts in North America . Flying in to any of the major ones will be no problem at all . Some of them have their own airports , and almost all will run shuttles from the nearest major airport . If you are used to skiing the best of the Alps then you will need to go to one of the really top resorts to get the same experience in North America . North American resorts have generally less vertical and on average less spectacular runs - but not by much . Unless you are a top class skier you wo n't notice the difference . North American skiing also works slightly differently to the Alps - the ski resorts own the entire area of the slopes , and you are expected to ski " within bounds " . That 's different from the ' village to village ' skiing that is normal in the Alps . The individual resorts are big , but they are n't linked like the Alps ; after a few day 's stay in one you will find you 've skied every run . North American ski areas are typically less crowded than their counterparts in the Alps , giving you more skiing per hour . Always fly the extra distance to get to the Rockies in the West . If you are used to the Alps , the East will disappoint , and the flights are n't that much longer . Some good places to start : Whistler Blackcomb is the chic , cool , place to ski - especially after the Olympics . You will pay a little extra premium for its cool factor , but the skiing is excellent . It also has good nightlife . Fly to Vancouver . Banff and Lake Louise are both top notch family ski resorts , a little less cool than Whistler , but better value . Banff actually has two resorts , Mt Norquay and Sunshine Village , and Lake Louise is only a short distance away ( with shuttles ) . Banff has some nightlife , but Lake Louise very little . Fly to Calgary . Fernie has a huge snowfall and masses of powder . Fly to Calgary . Panorama has an interesting mix of groomed cruising runs and untended backbowls . No nearby town , so the nightlife is what the resort provides . Heli-skiing available . Fly to Calgary . Calgary and Vancouver should be direct flights from major European airports . Finally , a <URL> for at least half the North American ski resorts .
It 's the same as the British one <URL> . <URL> was once common and may be occasionally found . The voltage in Ireland is the same as the rest of Europe ( 220 volts ) . To be more specific , From <URL> : The British Standards 1363 plug [ 17 ] is used in the United Kingdom and other countries . Compatible plugs standards are IS 401 and IS 411 ( Ireland ) , MS 589 ( Malaysia ) and SS 145 ( Singapore ) , and SASO 2203 ( Saudi Arabia ) . This is how it looks : Bath and shower rooms From <URL> : In the United Kingdom and Ireland , there is a two-pin socket for use with electric shavers in bath or shower rooms . [ 18 ] It derives from the unearthed version of 5 -- 6 A British plug and it has 0.2 in ( 5.08 mm ) diameter pins 5⁄8 in ( 15.88 mm ) apart . The sockets for this plug are often designed to accept unearthed CEE 7/16 , US or Australian plugs as well . Sockets are often able to supply either 230 V or 115 V . In wet zones , they must contain an isolation transformer compliant with BS 3535 . For more details , check <URL> for a list of the electrical plug types for the whole world .
There are literally hundreds of ski resorts in North America . Flying in to any of the major ones will be no problem at all . Some of them have their own airports , and almost all will run shuttles from the nearest major airport . If you are used to skiing the best of the Alps then you will need to go to one of the really top resorts to get the same experience in North America . North American resorts have generally less vertical and on average less spectacular runs - but not by much . Unless you are a top class skier you wo n't notice the difference . North American skiing also works slightly differently to the Alps - the ski resorts own the entire area of the slopes , and you are expected to ski " within bounds " . That 's different from the ' village to village ' skiing that is normal in the Alps . The individual resorts are big , but they are n't linked like the Alps ; after a few day 's stay in one you will find you 've skied every run . North American ski areas are typically less crowded than their counterparts in the Alps , giving you more skiing per hour . Always fly the extra distance to get to the Rockies in the West . If you are used to the Alps , the East will disappoint , and the flights are n't that much longer . Some good places to start : Whistler Blackcomb is the chic , cool , place to ski - especially after the Olympics . You will pay a little extra premium for its cool factor , but the skiing is excellent . It also has good nightlife . Fly to Vancouver . Banff and Lake Louise are both top notch family ski resorts , a little less cool than Whistler , but better value . Banff actually has two resorts , Mt Norquay and Sunshine Village , and Lake Louise is only a short distance away ( with shuttles ) . Banff has some nightlife , but Lake Louise very little . Fly to Calgary . Fernie has a huge snowfall and masses of powder . Fly to Calgary . Panorama has an interesting mix of groomed cruising runs and untended backbowls . No nearby town , so the nightlife is what the resort provides . Heli-skiing available . Fly to Calgary . Calgary and Vancouver should be direct flights from major European airports . Finally , a <URL> for at least half the North American ski resorts .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
There 's an Airbud interpretation of laws that goes along the lines of " There 's no rule that says a dog ca n't play football " . Or in <URL> : There 's a great Canadian article on it on <URL> , where it comes down to being ' murky ' . They point out the NYC rule , as well as when a landlord says you ca n't let your place out , or finds out you are and can kick you out . In the end one of their renters gave a quote which sums it up : " To have a great experience , sometimes you have to take a chance , " says Clarke . " Staying at a Marriott is like a bank account : low return , but your investment is safe . Airbnb is like a risky stock : Things can go wrong , but you can also win big . " Of course , that 's as a guest . Fortunately , if you 're a guest , you 're probably not the one in hot water if it is n't allowed . It 'd be like a regular hotel forgetting to renew their license . However , consider ... As someone letting out their room , it depends if you own it . If you yourself are a renter , one would want to check your letting agreement with your landlord . Mine have had specific clauses saying guests staying longer than x days need to be verified , and no subletting is allowed . If you really wanted to be sure , check with your landlord as well . He 's getting his rent , and as long as you 're not wrecking , many would be ok with it . Some obviously wo n't , however . And that 's where the problem lies . IF they do get into trouble or it turns out to be banned by their lease , you may find yourself getting turfed out , or turn up in town only to find you have nowhere to stay . However , the majority of people are reporting great experiences with it . I 'll be using it when I visit Australia in November .
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
The reciprocity fee is currently US$ 160 for US citizens , and can now be paid online in advance via the website <URL> . There is a PDF guide on paying the fee <URL> ( The entire guide is in English except for the country name of the US , which is in Spanish - " Estados Unidos " ) Not surprisingly , this matches the fee the US charges for non-immigrant visa applications , which is currently <URL> - that 's why it 's called a " reciprocity fee " .
It is probably possible to make calls from the US to Vietnam , but it depends on your provider . ( e.g. Viettel - yes , Vietnamobile - not possible for prepay customers ) . Before you go , you 'll need to turn on roaming . Your provider will have instructions for doing this - searching for <URL> or <URL> got me what I was looking for , so I guess doing the same for Mobifone or Vinaphone will do the same . You could try searching for CQVT [ your mobile provider ] as well , which seems to mean Roaming in Vietnamese . They 'll probably want you to have a fairly large chunk of credit on your phone , certainly in the hundreds of thousands of VND . Before you turn on roaming though and call away , as was pointed out in the comments , it will be expensive . Viettel charges you somewhere in the region of 33000 VND / minute to make calls from the US to Vietnam ( that 's about $ 1.50 right now ) . On the other hand , that 's still cheaper than the $ 3.99 / minute that T-Mobile USA for example will charge you to phone home . Your cheapest option to make calls home is likely to be to use data on a local SIM , and ( again from the comments ) the question as to how you can do that <URL> It will also cost you a lot of money to receive calls - it looks like Viettel would charge 11000 VND/minute for example - so bear that in mind as well . On the upside , it should at least be free to receive an SMS . Finally - to dial an international number , you just dial + followed by the country code , so for Vietnam that 's +84 ( you also leave out the leading 0 of the number ) .
Mt Greylock , the highest point of Massachusetts provides a view of at least 5 states . Vermont New Hampshire New York Massachusetts Connecticut Hiking to the top gives one a sense of real accomplishment and the 360 degree vistas are your well earned rewards . North into Vermont/New Hampshire , south into lower Mass. / northern Connecticut , east towards Boston , west into the Adirondacks of New York State . Information comes from <URL>
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
Yes . It is easy and you have several options . From the Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Airpot , you can easily reach ski resorts located in the Salzburger Land or even in Tyrol . There are <URL> . You also have tthe possibility to take a <URL> . Eventually , you can <URL> . As an example , <URL> are only a 30 minutes car drive from Salzburg . This means that you can easily reach it in an hour by bus . The big resorts , such as <URL> or the <URL> can be reached by a shuttle in roughly 90 minutes from Salzburg airport . If you intend to stay only a couple of days , like an extended weekend , Faistenau can be a good choice . It 's cozy and the ski resort is big enough . And it is not too far from the aiprort . If you want to check distances and travel time , you can use <URL> . That will give you a good estimate . Details for busses and shuttles are available via the airport 's website , by using the links given above .
There 's no simple answer to this because flight prices vary according to time of the year . Flight costs are probably going to be the highest , and while it is not the only indicator , a lower flight price indicates an ' off-season ' . If you try <URL> ( set your airport to Seattle ) then it does indeed seem that cheapest flights in March 2013 would be for Hawaii . However , costs are also likely to be more in Hawaii - so you could also consider a host of Carribbean / Central American countries that may be slightly more expensive as far as flights go but have cheaper hotels . Besides , you did n't really mention a budget , whether you 're going with a family , etc - all factors that can vary the price .
Well <URL> , and found : <URL> Which has beds for US$ 1 per night . To quote : But , there 's a catch ... The $ 1 dorm beds are in a thatched-roof hut that is partially open to the elements . It appears that you do get a mattress , pillow , towel , and even a mosquito net , but that 's it . There 's also no proper locker system out there so you have to leave your valuables at reception when you are away . Nighttime average low temperatures are steady , ranging from 79F/26C in March to 68F/20C in January , and it 's always humid , so it might not be too comfortable on the warmest nights , but at least you 'll never be cold . Also , the dorm beds are right next to the kitchen , so you need to be prepared for some noise and smells while you are saving all that money . On the other hand , the Garden Village offers : So you really do get most of the normal benefits of staying at a hostel , even for this ridiculously low price . Want something better , Mr. Moneybags ? If you can afford US$ 6 per night you can get a " standard single " room of your own , ranging up to a " deluxe triple " room for US$ 13 . You ca n't book the $ 1 dorms online , but you can book all the other private rooms from their website . I 'm told you can reserve the $ 1 dorms by emailing them , so you wo n't have to just roll the dice and hope one is open . Lest you think the Garden Village is just trying to get people stuck in some remote place to sell them food and drinks , it is actually very well located , only a few blocks from Pub Street and the main tourist district of Siem Reap . Also , they have a good and cheap restaurant , plus 50-cent Angkor draft beers available all day at their sunset rooftop terrace .
The European Biathlon Championships can draw sizeable crowds : In 2004 in Belarus , they attracted <URL> , and given that the World Championship in Germany in February 2012 attracted <URL> , you can expect that <URL> will be rather well occupied . The competitors in the Biathlon event will be blocking the cross-country tracks , but the visitors may be competing for space with you on the slopes . I do n't doubt that a place the size of Bansko will be able to handle the visitors . However , if you do n't like big crowds , you may want to look for alternatives .
but [ tipping ] is meant to be for a good job Yes , in theory , but in practice it 's standard to ( almost ) always leave a tip . Even if the service is merely " bad " , then you generally leave a tip on the low end of the scale . If it really is appalling ( ie , they got your order completely wrong , or were excessively slow for no good reason ) , then you leave a very low tip ( ie , 5 % ) , or leave the 1-cent tip if you want to send a pointed message . I think I 've only ever done that once or twice ( and I eat at restaurants a lot ) . It 's not legal to pay staff less than the minimum wage excluding tips , so that 's not really the issue . However , minimum wage ( in the United States ) is <URL> ( $ 7.25 / hr ) compared to other countries like <URL> ( $ 10 + ) and <URL> ( $ 16 ) . And then , service staff are often paid on the low end of the scale , despite the relatively difficult nature of the work . So it 's a sign of respect to tip generously as a policy ; and there is a stigma attached to being too cheap , for which poor tipping is presumed evidence .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
When I crossed the border Canada - > US ( on a European passport ) earlier this year by car they did not ask for any return tickets . Just what I do for a living , how long I plan to stay in the US , how I plan get out and how much money I had on me and available in my bank account . Been there before for 2 weeks and in transit a couple of times ; so maybe they took my previous records into account ... The first time however was a completely different story ; had to attend a conference , but did not book a hotel before and the guy in customs would n't let me pass until I had an hotel address for my arrival card . Was stuck there for ~ 1h , in the end I just wrote down a random hotel address from the yellow pages . So my advice would be to have some sort of reservation for a hotel/hostel where you stay for at least one night , and the greyhound tickets just in case , because you MUST write some address down on your arrival card , otherwise thou shall not pass ...
An American breakfast is simply the American variant of an <URL> , which is elsewhere an <URL> -- what Wikipedia in its neutralism calls a <URL> , in contrast to the so-called <URL> . A full breakfast is a " heavy " breakfast high in animal protein such as eggs , sausage , ham , and/or bacon , often fried . The American variant will have some kind of bread such as flapjacks/pancakes , French toast , or a waffle , and American-style sausage or bacon . I have rarely seen a hotel " American " breakfast that includes genuinely American dishes like waffles and chicken , grits , or biscuits and gravy .
end question
start question
No cheap , direct flights from Zurich , Switzerland to Vancouver , Canada ?
Long story short , yes , you can get cheaper . The price is compounded by several issues : you 're booking with not that much notice , in summer ( peak season ) you 're booking close to the Olympics , where 500,000 people are suddenly arriving and departing London , many of whom will also travel around Europe or North America afterwards , depending on where they 're from . You 're specifying direct . Very few airlines have direct flights from Zurich to Vancouver . However , for example <URL> you can certainly get less than that - a direct flight return for around USD$ 1600 with Swiss . Change that to one or two stop and you can knock 25 % off that price , if you 're prepared for a couple of airport switches - eg with British Airways you 'll get there with just one stop in London .
According to the website <URL> there are no direct buses between Edinbugh Airport - Dundee and vice-versa . Example : 16/5/2013 Depart Edinburgh Airport approximately 9.00 am gives you three options . if you choose the 9.30 am this will be your route , arriving at Dundee Bus Station at 11.32 am If you then depart Dundee on 18/5/2013 at approximately 4.00 pm you are given the following options : If you use the 3.40 pm departure your route will be as following arriving at Edinburgh Aiport at around 5.24 pm Obviously this is an example , as I do n't have the specifics of your journey , but no there are no direct buses for your specified route .
On kayak.com , once you 've searched for a flight , look down the left hand side of the search results . There 's a ' take off time " for your flight , and just below that , a link for " Show landing times " . Click that , and now you can filter your flights by arrival times .
I would try the <URL> in Shinjuku . In addition to kimonos they offer used books , hanging scroll art , prints , and accessories . Like anything secondhand it can be hit-or miss on what is available when you are there . Alternatively if you are willing to travel a bit ( 4.5 hours ) the <URL> is one of the best places to buy a genuine secondhand kimono in Japan . To get an idea of what to expect they have a really good <URL> that you can browse . Hanazono Shrine Antique Market Schedule Every Sun ( Closed on Shrine activity days and rainy days ) Open hours : Sunrise - sunset Address : Hanazono-jinja shrine grounds , 5-17-3 Shinjuku Shinjuku-ku
This is a good question . If you have 5 days and you travel via Geneva there is an interesting option , which provides a good balance between time spent in trains , cities and mountains . This options involves using the scenic <URL> between Montreux and Luzern . The nice point about this trip is that it can be done at any time of the year . The trains are running all year round . And the mountains are always nice ! The trip runs as follows : Paris - Geneva - Lausanne - Montreux - Zweisimmen - Interlaken - Luzern - Zürich . Below you find a proposal of how to allocate the 5 days . The travel times are approximate . Use the <URL> to find out the precise information . Day 1 : Travel from Paris to Geneva ( 3 hours ) in the morning . Visit Geneva and continue to Lausanne ( 40 minutes ) in the evening . Spend the night in Lausanne . Day 2 : Spend a day and a night in Lausanne . Day 3 : Travel by train to Montreux ( 20 minutes ) and take there the train to Zweisimmen ( 2 hours ) and from there a train to Interlaken ( 90 minutes ) . You can spend the night in Interlaken or in Grindelwald or Wengen . The latter are two nice villages in the surroundings . It 's a matter of taste ( and possibly of budget ) . Day 4 : Spend a day in the mountains and visit the <URL> . Stay overnight in Interlaken , Grindelwald or Wengen . Day 5 : Travel to Luzern ( 2 hours from Interlaken ) , in the morning . Visit Luzern . When you are done , continue to Zürich ( 45 minutes ) . Of course , the 5 days can be allocated a bit differently , according to your gusto .
This will most depend on your own pace , so this is hard to predict . However , <URL> we can find that the PCT association recommends 6 to 8 months for the entire trail . Starting near San Francisco ( at Lake Tahoe , still hundreds of kilometres from San Francisco ? ) , you seem to be able to start near the <URL> , which starts at mile 1092 , out of the total 2659 mi ( 4279km ) . Therefore a quick , absolutely imprecise computation ( ( 2659-1092 ) / 2659x6-8 months ) gives us an order of magnitude of 4 to 6 months . This is obviously a very rough estimate and if you are ready for this commitment , you know what daily distance you can achieve . Achieving the 1600 miles in less than 90 days means an average of 18 miles a day , without rest days and without refill stops . This is certainly doable for an experienced hiker , but if your time frame is constrained , you should probably find easily accessible trail heads for a shorter section of the trail .
As @MatthewHerbs indicates , there are taxi companies that will take you from the Blaine crossing to the Bellingham airport and probably as far as SeaTac too for quite a price : about $ 50 to BLI , about $ 250 more to SEA . Much to my surprise , it seems this is it : Toronto or Vancouver and that 's it . The main Canadian airports are : Calgary International Airport Edmonton International Airport Halifax Stanfield International Airport Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier International Airport Toronto Pearson International Airport Vancouver International Airport Winnipeg James Armstrong Richardson International Airport For Calgary ( actually , Medicine Hat is an airport closer to the border ) , Winnipeg , Montreal and Ottawa there is practically nothing south of these cities in Canada neither across the border so there 's no public transit . Compare the population density of northern Montana / North Dakota / the Adirondacks to the Windsor / Detroit area . Edmonton and Halifax are far from the border .
There 's an important distinction between leaving the US temporarily , and leaving permanently , which is as much as anything dictated by you returning to your place of residence . If you are in the US under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and you leave the US for a few weeks to visit Canada ( or Mexico ) with an intent to return to the US then you are deemed to have only temporarily left the US for that period , and thus your 90 days carries through - even though you 're out of the country . In the days of the I-94W forms ( the green form you used to fill in when arriving in the US ) , you would actually keep your I-94W in your passport even when you left the US . If you are leaving US to return to your place of residence , then you are leaving permanently . In this case your VWP period would end when you left the country , and historically that 's when you would have turned in your I-94W . As you have a work visa to be in Canada , for the period of that visa Canada would be your place of residence . That means that every time you leave the US your visit will have deemed to have ended as you 've returned to your place of residence , and thus permanently left the US - which means that when you re-enter the US the VWP clock will be restarted . At the end of the day the Canada/Mexico condition is intended to stop people doing visa runs from the US to Canada/Mexico , thus getting another 90 days on their VWP . If it 's clear that 's not what you 're doing then you 'll have no issues . Do n't forget that to enter the US under the VWP you will first need to <URL> . ( Note : Usual provisions apply . IANAL , but I 've entered the US around 40 times both on VWP and on Visas so I know the processes fairly well ! If you want a definite answer , either contact <URL> , or talk to a qualified immigration lawyer )
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
As pointed out by @mkennedy , Canada Post has a service called International Reply Coupon , which , as per their web-site , appears to be a one-size-fits-all that 's valid in 191 countries ( except for Taiwan ) , bearing a cost of 6,00 CAD . <URL> However , the problem comes from the fact that , as its name suggests , it 's not an actual stamp , but rather a coupon , which must be redeemed for a local stamp at a local post office in the country from which the reply mailing is to be made . ( The usage procedure is actually even documented as such right on their web-site . ) The above would go in contradiction with the requirement of having a " pre-paid envelope " -- after all , instead of attaching said coupon , it might as well be easier to provide a two 1 USD bills ( see cost below ) , which , after all , can surely be be exchanged for adequate postage with more ease than having to deal with some sort of coupon most people have never heard of , and which appears to specifically require a visit to the Post Office . As per <URL> , it generally costs only a couple of times more to post letters internationally than domestically . As of 2015-05-09 , one domestic first-class USPS stamp with a denomination value of FOREVER costs 0,49 USD ( the FOREVER stamps will correspondingly and automatically increase in value if the price to post goes up ) , and such one stamp is sufficient for posting any small letter from any state to any other state . As per <URL> , it currently costs 1,15 USD to mail a letter at or below 57 grams ( 2 ounces ) from US to Canada , thus three such stamps at 1,47 USD should be sufficient to post internationally . As such , the easiest solution would be to buy and affix three FOREVER stamps to the reply envelope , either within Canada , or before making a trip there . Additionally , it seems like USPS also has the specifically designated GLOBAL FOREVER USPS stamps , too , which are currently valued at exactly 1,15 USD , and will always be sufficient for international postage .
Many airlines do offer discounted tickets for children between the ages of 2-12 and fares are typically 2/3rds to 3/4ths of a full adult fare . Because the number of tickets is limited and airlines offering such rates on various routes are n't the same , the best advice I can give is to try a search on travel sites like <URL> , <URL> , <URL> et al ( <URL> is a surprising omission because it offers no way of choosing children / senior travellers ) and specify you 're travelling with children . In this particular case , you will be better off search with ' online travel agents ' like Travelocity than ' search engines ' like Kayak , as the former are more likely to offer special deals negotiated with airlines for children .
The general answer is yes , you will have a train at this time . However , the exact answer depends a little bit on the concrete date . During weekdays the last bus leaves the airport at 23:52 . Then you have 7 minutes to change from the bus to the train at Basel 's station . And your train will be at the main station in Zurich at 01:24 . On weekends the last bus leaves the airport at 24:00 . Then you also have to change at the station in Basel and you 're in Zurich around 01:58 . If that is too early for you , you can also wait for the first bus which leaves around 05:10 . Obviously the answer to this question also depends a little bit on where exactly you want to go in Zurich . The trains are all for Zurich main station . If you have to travel on from there , chances are high that there are no connecting trains during weekdays . On the other hand , during weekends ( Friday / Saturday nights ) , there is a 24h public transport service in whole Zurich . ( Be aware that this trains and buses , called Nachtnetz in German , cost additionally 5 francs ) . To check the schedule by yourself , <URL> I included a screenshot of a query for today , around 21:00 . You can also see the details of the last train at the bottom :
Aside Greyhound ( costing 30-60 ) , <URL> shows various other bus options including <URL> costing 20 . There is also a bus combination using <URL> which supposedly costs 19-24 . <URL> can get you there for as low as 11 one way depending on what day of the week you 're traveling and how far in the future you book your ticket . The bus trip takes 4 to 4.5 hours
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
As a UK Citizen , you are eligible for the <URL> . Upon entering the US by land , all you 'll need is your passport and to not have entered any of the few proscribed countries in the past . Look at <URL> . I 've quoted Point 4 below , but you 'll probably want to read the whole thing and ensure none of the issues apply to you . If they do n't , you 'll be allowed to stay in the US for up to 90 days , no problem . 4 . What are the specific changes to the VWP ? Under the Act , travelers in the following categories are no longer eligible to travel or be admitted to the United States under the VWP : Nationals of VWP countries who have traveled to or been present in Iran , Iraq , Sudan , or Syria on or after March 1 , 2011 ( with limited exceptions ) . Nationals of VWP countries who are also nationals of Iran , Iraq , Sudan , or Syria . These restrictions do not apply to VWP travelers whose presence in Iraq , Syria , Iran , or Sudan was to perform military service in the armed forces of a program country , or in order to carry out official duties as a full-time employee of the government of a program country . These military and official government services exceptions , however , do not apply to the dual national restriction . Travelers who are known to fall into the dual national category noted above will receive notice via email on or about January 21 , 2016 that their current ESTA is no longer valid . The Act also requires that all VWP travelers use an electronic passport for travel to the United States by April 1 , 2016 . Finally , the Act includes other changes to the VWP to promote enhanced information sharing of terrorism and criminal data , and use of INTERPOL databases and notices for border screening purposes . The vast majority of VWP eligible travelers will not be affected by the legislation . Finally , this answer has only been about entering the US . To fly into Canada , as commented by <URL> , you will most likely be eligible for and want to apply to receive an <URL> .
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
<URL> list all the big Christmas markets in Switzerland . I can really recommend those two that are in the <URL> It sounds weird but they are really nice . As a plus next to the Christmas market in Zurich 's main station , there are a lot of open air bars in the courtyard of the <URL> where you can get Glühwein and Raclette , typical food and drink during Christmas in Switzerland . As lejohn already mentioned , also the <URL> is worth a visit . Here you see a picture of the Christmas market in Zurich 's main station . The huge Christmas tree is decorated with <URL> crystals . And here is a picture of the Landesmuseum 's courtyard where you can get Raclette and Glühwein . It is also possible to do some ice skating there :
No . The option you mention is by far the fastest . Fly directly from Zurich to Amsterdam . Swiss has four flights per day . This takes 1h30 . Then take a <URL> from the <URL> to Eindhoven . That 's another 1h30 . There are plenty of ( direct ) trains between Schiphol and Eindhoven . Add the time in between to get luggage , go to the train etc. . And you are done . If you comply to traffic regulations , you wo n't be faster by car ( taxi or rental car ) on the Schiphol-Eindhoven leg . There are also direct flights from Brussels to Zurich . Brussels Airport is a 1h30 drive ( by car ) from Eindhoven . The train takes at least 2h45 and you have to change 2 or 3 times . Cologne and Düsseldorf are even further apart . Maastricht , Rotterdam and Antwerp do not have direct flights to Zurich . And this brings us back to Amsterdam ;-)
I found a decent ticket , 12 hours , direct from YVR to NRT , for $ 1200 CAD . Thinking I should snatch that up . $ 1,200 CAD should be considered a reasonable round-trip price from North America to Japan . Sometimes you see lower ( though rarely below $ 1000 ) , and sometimes much much higher . I would say that is around the average price these last few years , based on the flight price research I periodically do for myself or acquaintances making the trans-Pacific hop . I always hear different things . Early ? Late ? Certain time specific to the season ? You likely hear different things because there are very few universally applicable rules to flight-pricing , especially for trans-Pacific flights . Sometimes the best price is six months in advance , and sometimes it is a few weeks - it mostly all depends on that particular flight . I can say for sure that the most expensive time to fly to/from Japan is the New Year 's season , the first week of May ( Japan 's " Golden Week " ) , and the middle of August ( Japan 's " Obon " Festival of Lights ) . Scoring an average-price ticket during these times will be harder than most other times of the year . However , September is not an unusually busy season in Japan . 2 ) A friend may want to come with me by buying a ticket in 1 month from now . Does it sound like it should be OK ? I figure he probably ca n't get the seat beside me at that time , or maybe even the same plane One month in advance is pushing it a little bit , but it is not unheard of to find a reasonable ticket only one month in advance . I advise buying sooner if possible , and it is very unlikely that you 'll be on the same airplane ( or if you are , your friend would have to pay a lot of money ) .
Yes , it can be done quite easily ! <URL> to doing so , which is well worth a read ! On weekends during the winter , there are two direct Eurostar services between London and Moutiers , Aime &amp; Bourg St Maurice . There are daytime trains both ways on Saturdays , or an overnight one out on Friday nights , back on Saturday night ( but it does n't have beds , just seats ) . A large number of the popular resorts are just a short transfer away from these stations ( tens of minutes , not several hours ! ) Another option is to take the Eurostar to Paris , then either a daytime TGV to the alps , or an overnight sleeper ( with couchette beds ! ) . This does involve a cross-Paris transfer though , which might be an issue depending on luggage - it 's a single metro ride with a few flights of stairs to cross Paris . Alternately , for the Swiss alps , and some bits of France ( eg Chamonix ) , you can take a Eurostar then Lyria TGV , with a cross-platform change in Lille . These services are generally unaffected by the weather - in January 2013 when there was a lot of snow in the UK and northern France , lots of flights were cancelled , but the daytime Eurostar was only a few minutes late into Bourg !
end question
start question
Can you use a JR Pass to travel between Sapporo and Tokyo ?
The quick answer is yes , you can . Read on for the details What to get You have to get your JR pass from your home country before you leave for Japan , they 're not for sale there ! Here 's a <URL> , search for your region and buy it there . The green car is not necessary unless you want it , it 's like a first class train . How it works Once you have it , your pass is your train ticket , you just show it to board . The JR pass allows you to travel on JR lines ( except Mizuho and Nozomi trains ) , so make sure to avoid the small private networks and you should be fine . <URL> so you will have to go to the station to reserve a seat ( you ca n't do it online ) . Your JR pass means the reservation is free , but you still have to do it . There 's no minimum time before the train leaves , I 've done it 20-30min or a few days before , it does n't take very long , but if it 's a busy route all the seats may already be reserved . <URL> has a great page about this . How to get there Now , with all that said , there are many trains that run between Sapporo and Tokyo , especially now with the introduction of the Shinkansen you have more options , and there 's always an overnight train too . You can definitely do the whole journey on a train only . <URL> is your best friend here , just make sure you check the right options when you 're searching for trips ! <URL>
I ended up being tweeted an answer - from a TEFL teacher in Thailand : <URL>
If you are at a land border and inadmissible in both directions , you 'll be taken to a detention centre . In the scenario you described , most likely <URL> . They will book you in and then go over your travel document ( s ) with a view to determining where you are admissible . They will contact the consulate where you have citizenship and let them know you are in custody . Once they have determined the next steps , they will serve you with a removal order . If it happens in Russia , you 'll go to the <URL> ( local magistrate ) and get a five year ban , you can also expect to get dunned for their expense . Estonia has a similar sanction , but it operates under the <URL> . Once the paperwork is complete , you 'll be escorted to a removal centre . In Estonia , it would be at <URL> , and in Russia there 's one at <URL> . In most cases , you 'll be issued a one-way travel document and placed on the appropriate ( civil ) flight . Nobody gets stuck forever in a gulag . If the receiving country has no problems with you , the removing country will give your actual travel document to the airline staff and you 'll get it back once the flight has cleared the removing country 's air space . I 've been in the one at Sheremetyevo ( on the representation side ) , the biggest concern they have is finding out the REAL reason you are in their country . Also , you need to really hope there were no crimes committed in the area where you were caught . I have no experience in Tallinn . Overall , it 's comparable to detention anywhere ; the biggest problem people face is the language barrier in the day-to-day world as their paperwork is getting sorted out . From end-to-end , the process would take a maximum of two weeks . When you debrief people who have been removed , they invariably report that the conditions are civil , and the most harrowing part of the experience was the screwballs they encountered whilst in detention . NOTE : your scenario takes place where there are clear land borders . If your scenario took place at a disputed border , like in Morocco , things could get exponentially more complex very quickly . This answer is scoped to stable countries only and the intervention occurs at a control point . If you are caught deeply inland in Russia , you will be in trouble . Also countries and regions not mentioned in this answer are out of scope . Related : <URL> Adding ... Further to the comment by <URL> ( to whom thanks ) , depending upon how the control point is laid out , there may be a ' discussion ' by the border guards over who has jurisdiction . My best guess is given in the first paragraph . BUT ... For the scenario described , the OP should try to get taken into custody by the Russians ( even if they have to run to the interior ) .
Many of the major airlines do have self-service checkin machines at the airport . I know <URL> , allows printing forgotten or failed prints . If your airlines does not have these self service machines , and you are not yet at the airport , try going to a print or copyshop . Most airports these days have these shops , but sometimes they can have quite some waiting queues , which will be adding stress to your journey . Depending on the airline you are traveling , you could choose to use a <URL> as an alternative boarding card . This only works if your boarding pass has a bar code they use to scan prior to boarding . What you need to do is make a pdf of your boarding pass and store it on your device . I always do this these days and this already saved me once . A final option is to just approach the check in desk and ask a reprint . This is the least favorable solution , since the whole idea behind online check in is to minimize contact time at a manned checkin desk . Some airlines are then reluctant to help you in these request , some airlines ( Ryanair comes to mind ) have a hefty fee if you ask for a reprint . In the case of Ryanair this is 40 euros or even higher .
I would try the <URL> in Shinjuku . In addition to kimonos they offer used books , hanging scroll art , prints , and accessories . Like anything secondhand it can be hit-or miss on what is available when you are there . Alternatively if you are willing to travel a bit ( 4.5 hours ) the <URL> is one of the best places to buy a genuine secondhand kimono in Japan . To get an idea of what to expect they have a really good <URL> that you can browse . Hanazono Shrine Antique Market Schedule Every Sun ( Closed on Shrine activity days and rainy days ) Open hours : Sunrise - sunset Address : Hanazono-jinja shrine grounds , 5-17-3 Shinjuku Shinjuku-ku
Adding a new answer since this needs an update : there 's now a new choice in town , namely the <URL> . As of Jan 2015 , it covers all public transport in Sydney and nearby , including trains , ferries , buses and light rail . Opal is your standard pay-per-use ' smartcard ' , just tap on and tap off every time you get on/off a vehicle . Some noteworthy catches/features : You pay for distance travelled , so long trips cost more . Every vehicle you use is charged separately , so train to ferry to bus means three fares , no discounts . ( Bus-bus , train-train , ferry-ferry transfers are free though . ) On trains ( only ) , you automatically get off-peak discounts when applicable . There 's a daily cap of $ 15 , which is handy especially for ferries , which get pretty expensive pretty fast otherwise . There 's also a weekly cap of 8 " trips " , after which all travel is free . ( Note that just transferring does n't start a new trip , you need to wait an hour for it to count . ) On Sundays you can travel all you want for just $ 2.50 . The airport access fee is not covered by any of these special rules , and must be paid in full each time . You can pick up an Opal for " free " at the airport , major stations ( not all though ! ) , 7/11s , newsagents , etc , paying only for the value you load onto it ( minimum $ 10 , IIRC ) . For time being , the MyMulti card covered in Gagravarr 's answer still exists , and a weekly MyMulti for the appropriate zone may be a better option depending on your travel patterns , particularly if you 'll be transferring a lot . The <URL> calculator can help you compare your options . ( Disclaimer : I wrote it ! ) But sometime in 2015 , they 'll pull the weekly MyMulti too ( they 've already killed off monthlies and longer ) , and Opal will be the only game in town .
Getting hotel upgrades is indeed like getting flight upgrades -- the odds are low , and stay low even if you try to game the system , but occasionally you win . I 'm also assuming that you have no elite status with the hotel/chain , since that 's a whole different ballgame , although it is also by far the best way to get upgrades . First of all , it 's important to understand that there are " upgrades " and then there are upgrades . A slightly larger room or a room facing the park instead of the parking lot is a small upgrade and these are often handed out like candy , but putting you in an executive floor room with lounge access , buffet breakfast and complimentary minibar involves real additional cost to the hotel , and these " real " upgrades will be harder to score . You can usually tell the levels with careful reading of the room descriptions on the hotel website : eg . the <URL> has something like 20 room types , but " Superior " , " Deluxe " and " Premium " are all exactly the 32 sq. m. same room , just facing in different directions . The " Club " rooms are the same room again with lounge access , and it 's only " Executive Suite " ( 72 sq. m. ) and above that are genuinely different . So , here 's some ideas . Short stays are more likely to get upgrades . You might get the grand suite for a night if nobody 's using it , but you 're extremely unlikely to get it for a month . Ask nicely on check-in if you could have a room facing the Eiffel Tower ( or whatever ) . If it 's a small upgrade ( see above ) , you just might get it ; if it 's a big upgrade and they 've got a bunch free , you might be offered a discounted upgrade . When booking , request something restrictive but not obnoxious : eg . " high floor " or " away from elevators " . On check-in , ask if they can fulfill your request . If they ca n't find a standard room that fits , they just might bump you up . If something is genuinely broken in your room and you complain about it , you may well get shifted to a nicer room . I once ended up in the presidential suite because it was the only room they had left with functional internet ! ( Was n't a particularly nice hotel and I was staying with my boss on a business trip , but hey , first-world problems ... ) A high-risk , high-reward tactic is to simply check in late ; if all the standard rooms are gone , they 'll bump you up . Of course , if you check in too late , then all the rooms may be gone and you 'll probably end up at the Motel 6 instead ... and if you do get a nice room , it 's already late so you wo n't have much time to enjoy it !
No . The only way to get from one terminal to another is to exit the terminal and take the air train or a shuttle bus . A possible exception to this is for Delta , which operates in Terminals 2 and 4 . They apparently have a bus that connects the airside areas of these terminals . See the map here : <URL> Indications are that this bus will disappear at some point , presumably when construction of a direct link between the two areas has been completed .
You do indeed need a yearly vignette to drive on Swiss motorways . It costs CHF 40 and needs to be affixed to the windshield to be valid ( in principle , merely having one somewhere in the car is n't enough to avoid a fine ) . The vignette for a given year is valid from the beginning of December in the year before until the end of January in the year after . I do n't know for sure but I doubt you can buy that vignette from car hire companies as far out as Frankfurt and I would be really surprised if you could rely on a rental having one already ( as others have suggested you can always ask or be lucky , but it 's not standard ) . But you do n't need to worry about first entering Switzerland and trying to track down a place that sells it , getting one on the way is really easy . Usually , you can buy the Swiss vignette at the last couple of petrol stations/rest areas in Germany ( possibly losing one or two euros on the exchange rate but nothing to worry about if it feels more convenient ) and at the border itself , certainly on the motorway ( smaller border crossings do not have any customs office/staff nowadays but major crossings still do ) .
Recently came back from the trip . Ganzi is an option for better accomedation ( more options ) , and we did stayed there on the way back from Maun . Unfortunately , it was too far from Gaborone for us ( 670 Km ) , and added another 100 Km to the trip . We did found a place to stay in closer to the middle : Kang village which is 420 Km from Gaborone and about 400 Km from the Namibian border post . There are several guest houses and one <URL> , fueling station and convenience store . The second night we stayed across the Namibian border in <URL> .
My advice : either write your surname as MCLARTYJR or forget the suffix altogether . Putting spaces in is asking for IT trouble . Chinese naming conventions are quite different to western names ; aside from not using an alphabet , the ( typically ) one-syllable family name usually goes before the two-syllable given name ; and the two parts of the name are not divisible . Chinese people , in common with many in East Asia , often use a different name when they are in the west , either romanized by a transliteration convention ( which differs for Mandarin vs Cantonese ) , neither of which precisely represent Chinese pronunciation ; or they pick a western name like " John " . As such allowance is given to people who use slightly different spelling of their names compared to official documents . So MCLARTY or MCLARTYJR will be understood , but if only JR comes out then that is harder to explain .
It appears that the minimum connecting time according to the airlines is 40 or 45 minutes between Terminal A &amp; C , so you should be just fine . If you 're flying United , they run a transfer shuttle between Terminals A &amp; C inside security , so you do n't have to go through security again .
You do not have to use the body scanner for TSA Pre-Check . Most of the time they do n't even have the body scanner in that line . And when I go to an airport that does n't have a separate TSA pre-check line , like LGA in NY , they give you a card that says TSA pre-check and they send you through the metal detector . Even if you do n't have pre-check you can opt not to go through the scanner , but then they pat you down . If you do n't have it and are thinking about getting it I highly recommend it . Do n't have to take your shoes off or anything . So much easier . Like the old days of traveling . As a side note , when you think about it , you ca n't go through the body scanner if you have pre-check , because you have your shoes on and possibly things in your pockets so the body scan will always fail .
<URL> : Reasons for inadmissibility Note : This is only a guide . A Canadian immigration officer will decide if you can enter Canada when you apply for a visa , an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , or when you arrive at a port of entry . A person may be denied a visa , or an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , refused entry to , or removed from Canada on any of these grounds : security reasons , including espionage subversion ( attempts to overthrow a government , etc. ) violence or terrorism , or membership in an organization involved in any of these human or international rights violations , including war crimes crimes against humanity being a senior official in a government engaged in gross human rights violations or subject to international sanctions committing a serious crime that would be punishable by a maximum prison term of at least 10 years in Canada Footnote 1 having been convicted of a crime , including driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol Footnote 1 organized crime , including membership in an organization that takes part in organized criminal activity , people smuggling or money laundering health grounds -- if their condition is likely to : endanger public health or public safety , or cause excessive demands on health or social services ( some exceptions exist Footnote 2 Footnote 3 ) financial reasons -- if they are unable or unwilling to support themselves and their family members misrepresentation , which includes providing false information or withholding information directly related to decisions made under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act ( IRPA ) failure to comply with any provision of IRPA Footnote 4 or having an inadmissible family member . However , the big disclaimer at the top says that this list is just a guide , and that your admissibility depends exclusively on what the immigration officer handling your case decides . In addition , <URL> of the agreement you linked specifically says that the two countries share information with the purpose of enforcing immigration laws in their respective countries : The purpose of this Agreement is to assist in the administration and enforcement of the Parties ' respective immigration laws by : using Information in order to enforce or administer the immigration laws of the Parties ; furthering the prevention , investigation , or punishment of acts that would constitute a crime rendering a National of a Third Country inadmissible or removable under the immigration laws of the Party providing the Information ; or facilitating the Parties ' adjudication of an application for a visa , admission , or other immigration benefit , or determination of whether an individual is to be ordered removed by providing Information regarding the admissibility of the individual . This is to say that Canada can inquire , and if so will be informed , about the US ban . You admissibility will therefore depend solely on the immigration officer 's decision based on all the information they have . They will know what , when , why , and how you overstayed . It goes without saying that one should not omit this information in one 's application . Now , overstaying in a country is generally a red flag when applying for a visa in another country . A previous overstay in any countries makes you immediately untrustworthy , and casts serious doubts about your intentions of actually leaving Canada . Therefore , the answer to whether being banned in the US renders you inadmissible in Canada is likely to be yes .
Being Dutch , I have never heard of such law . I also doubt there is a law that would cover this , I would take it as a try to intimidate you . But also as a ' please really , really do not do this . ' If caught out after you made the picture and before you had seen the sign , I would let them try to sue you . But if seeing the sign before you take the picture , do not take one . If the designs in the shop are unique , they have the right to protect their copy-right , but that would go for pictures of the clothing without it being worn . I would not let me be bullied into buying their clothing , but I would also not take photos of me wearing stock unless I have approval of shop staff . Added : Taking the photo is not breaking the copy-right laws , using the information from the photo might be . But that breaking of the copy-right laws can also happen after you have bought the item , much easier even . So I doubt the judge ( if it came to a court case ) would accept it as reason to be forced to buy the item . I am Dutch , I am not a lawyer but I am pretty much aware of customer rights .
They made a <URL> in 2010 about this service . The advertised domain for this service , specially targeted at backpackers , does not exist anymore , so I would assume this service is discontinued . If you are willing to pay a bit more ( ¥ 2,700 ) , you can use the <URL> to bring you from Narita to Asakusa .
Legally speaking , no , you ca n't . The Republic of Cyprus 's ( ROC ) position on this is clear : the Turkish occupation of the northern half of the island is illegal , and they do not recognize the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus 's ( TRNC ) authority . Therefore , if you enter Cyprus via the TRNC , you are an illegal immigrant as far as the ROC is concerned and subject to detention and deportation if caught . However ... in practice , the ROC only appears to apply this to people who require visas for the ROC . If you are a citizen of a country that does not require a visa for the ROC , including the USA and all EU countries , you are generally permitted to enter the ROC without consequences . ( Exception : you are not allowed to fly out via the ROC , but must return to the TRNC . I presume this is because otherwise the Immigration computers would barf . ) All things considered , it 's preferable to visit the other way around , namely from the South to the North . Here the geopolitics work the other way : the ROC claims the entire island , so once you 've legally entered they allow you to visit the North ( because they pretend it 's ROC territory ) , and the TRNC has no claims on the southern half of Cyprus , so they 're happy to let you enter " officially " as well . See also : <URL>
Actually there 's a third , rarer option . But it 's the option I 'm on currently . If your trip is going to be longer than 30 days , you ca n't use a tourist visa - as that 's the maximum length , and you ca n't extend it . You can , however , apply for a business visa and are perfectly entitled to say it 's for tourism . I got a letter of support from my company ( despite it saying I 'm just going as a tourist ) and worked with visatorussia.com to make sure I had all the details , and voila , a 3 month double-entry Russian Business Visa ! It did cause the border guy a bit of confusion , but a quick phone call and he was quite happy with it . Again , you need a letter of invite ( visatorussia can help with that ) , and you specify a rough itinerary ( I just said the 5 major cities I hope to visit ) but these do not go on your visa , nor are you required to stick to it . However , as mentioned - if you 're in any place for more than a few days you are required to register with your hotel or place of abode . Again , visatorussia will help explain all of that . Good luck !
Yes you can . All these three tickets can be used on <URL> , including TER and Intercités . There are some restrictions though : You are not allowed to use it on trains with compulsory seat reservation , such as TGV trains . Note that reservation is never compulsory , and I think even not possible in TER trains . Regarding the Intercités trains , reservation is compulsory on some of them . This restriction will not bite you as you will not need to travel on them . If you rely on TER and the other operators , you have a very good network at your disposal . You are not allowed to travel first class . With " Mobilis " and " Ticket Jeunes " you are not allowed to access the airports Orly and Roissy by train ( <URL> ) . Moreover the airport busses , Orlybus and Roissybus , can not be used with these two kinds of tickets . None of these passes allows you to use the <URL> light railway . You have to be sure that your ticket is indeed valid in the zones you want to travel , for the whole journey . If it is n't , with a Navigo pass , you can purchase a <URL> ( you need to buy it just before your trip at your origin station ) . Note that a Navigo monthly or yearly pass ( but not a weekly pass ) is valid for the whole Île-de-France region on week-ends and public holidays . With Mobilis or Ticket Jeunes Week-end , your pass must be valid for the whole journey .
If your itinerary is DUB-LHR-LAX , then that Dublin and Shannon have US Pre-Clearance facilities is pretty much irrelevant . Your DUB-LHR flight , while not technically domestic , is essentially similar since you should n't have to enter the UK during transit . You will clear US Immigration and Customs at LAX . You should expect to get any required forms * from the cabin crew sometime during the LHR-LAX flight . * CBP has notably automated their processes now . BA , presumably , will play a video before arrival that describes the process and what travelers are exempt from what procedures .
end question
start question
Will I be allowed to leave the air terminal in Tocumen Airport for 2 hours ?
While the city is only 15 minutes drive from the airport at times , given your narrow window , it would make more sense for your friend to come to the airport to meet you . Indeed , <URL> suggests that in busy periods , it can even take up to an hour , which you do n't want if you 're stressing about getting back to your flight ! Assuming your bags are checked through to your final destination , all you need to worry about then is yourself , carry-on and passport/visa situation . For your carry-on and self , remember that you 'll still need to go out through passport control , and get back in through customs , security and passport control . This is common enough for a few hours , I 've done it in several airports where I had a longish layover - I wanted to check out the city . Then your passport/visa - as long as you 're just visiting ( as you suggest ) then <URL> . So it should be a case of zipping through passport control , meeting your friend , and have some time to enjoy the airport , making sure to allow yourself enough time to get back through to your plane . Enjoy !
Head to the <URL> , find the ticket office ( <URL> ; open Monday-Sunday 05:00 -23:59 ) , and buy your ticket to Canterbury from there . ( I 'm not sure if you can buy the ticket online or not , but personally I 'd just buy it from the station . )
Oh , I basically did this in July , from mid-afternoon until late evening when my flight out happened . Assuming you do n't want to just grab a cab and go down to the waterfront ( it 's nice and there are cafes and the market ) , the airport does n't have much . At all . Landside You have a choice of two Costa Coffees , and a small restaurant place with some Indian-like food ( much Omani cuisine is inspired by Indian food ) . It 's nothing fancy . That 's it . The rest of the shops are cellphone sim card stalls , and care-hire , basically . Airside Going through check-in , you get to go upstairs , and this is bigger - but now you 're going to have Wendy 's , Subway , and that style - plus one small restaurant that serves shish kabob and wraps . And souvenir shops and exchange places . It was pretty limited . They also claimed to have free wifi , but it was n't working when I was there . All day . My recommendation - landside , get into that restaurant ( it 's opposite the small Costa ) , and settle in at one of the booths . Each booth has a powerpoint , and you can just chill and watch movies on your device or listen to music , while people watching a bit and occasionally buying a drink . Otherwise though , no , I did a lot of laps walking , but there 's really not much else to see . If you can , you 're far better off adventuring outside , even if for a short time . Town is pretty close - go see the new mosque at night , it 's quite a sight !
I 'm not sure why they do n't just post the bus schedule , but I guess the exact times depend on the flight schedules of multiple airlines any given day , so it might change frequently enough that having a set schedule would be impractical . There are buses to basically all flights . Generally the first departs around 5:30 to the airport and the last returns 22:00 back to Paris . The buses are assigned to specific flights so you can check the suggested time for your trip , or simply leave " All destinations/origins " selected to the full schedule for that day on the <URL> .
If you have a cell phone with you and your party does too , use the <URL> . You can wait there for up to 45 minutes . Your party can call you on arrival and you can tell them your car color etc and come forward to meet them . The large posts outside are numbered which should help you connect . They can tell you what post they 're waiting at , for example , and you can work your way to that number . At Terminal 1 the doors are labeled , inside and out , with letters : The large concrete posts are numbered D1 , D2 etc. . You can just barely see them in the posts at each edge of this picture : If you ca n't talk live , pick a post number in advance . Your best bet would be a reconnaissance trip a few days before , then email or call them at home with your chosen post . Apparently international arriving passengers can get taxis at D1 and limos at D3 from Terminal 1 . So D2 or D4 sounds promising , but it 's probably better to pass through yourself and see . I seem to remember that the innermost three-lane segment - the one showing in these pictures - is for taxis , limos and shuttles only . Passenger cars I think have to use another lane with different post numbers . That 's why either going there yourself to look , or having them call and tell you where they are standing is better than you trying to tell them where to stand . Finally , you could just park in <URL> ( $ 5 ) and go in , and wait inside at International Arrivals . People clear customs and come out of a single door where you should be able to spot them , help them with their luggage , and go together back to Express Park .
Visa-free transfers in China are very limited . In particular , your inbound flight into China must arrive at the same airport as you are the later departing from . So arriving in Tianjin and departing from Beijing will not be possible . The train trip in between does not make a difference . For the 72-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules at regulations at : <URL> For the 24-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules here : <URL> - but they are even more restricted , requring you to stay in the international transfer part of the airport . Since you are taking a domestic train , these rules do not apply either .
If you bought it on one ticket then yes , it is sufficient time or it would not have been sold to you ( alright perhaps I am an optimist ! ) . Your luggage will be through-checked to CDG , if on one ticket . ( If it is on two tickets it should still be possible to arrange for it to be through-checked and to pick up your GRU-CDG boarding pass at FOR . However I would not advise buying your tickets this way . ) You have n't said which airport it is ( São Paulo has two ) , but since you are flying to Paris on TAM I conclude it is Guarulhos ( GRU ) . The minimum connect time at GRU for domestic to international ( D/I ) is 1 hour : ( There are some exceptions , but your flights are not in the list . ) There is a terminal change going from terminal 2 to terminal 3 . Unfortunately , I think you will have to re-clear security at terminal 3 -- perhaps someone can confirm this ?
If you do n't have Russian Visa , you wont be able to get out to the city . Moscow have huge traffic jams ;) It 's can take few hours to get into the center , and few hours back . I would n't risk to miss my flight , even though I 'm Russian . However you probably can make it and see Moscow for 1-2 hours , but I do n't think it worth it to spend time/money for visa , and to be in such a hurry :) P.S. : Moscow never sleep .
The answer is yes : Take a look at the map on United 's site for <URL> .
To use the lockers in a train station is a good idea , however if your flight is in Schönefeld you should use the lockers at Südkreuz station . As in all stations the cost is 4 Euros for a small locker , 6 Euros for a large locker ( per 24 hours ) . ( Btw . if this is a stopover and you also arrive at SFX , then <URL> , so the simplest option would be to leave your luggage there . ) The lockers as Südkreuz are located at the exit Hildegard-Knef-Platz . They are inside the building , and the police station inside the station is just around the corner , so your luggage should be pretty safe ( take care not to leave any luggage unattended in the open or it will be removed and destroyed ) . Südkreuz is also a good option because it is a traffic hub . It 's probably worth buying a " Tageskarte Berlin ABC " ( day ticket for all fare zones ) at 7.5 Euro ( valid until 3.00 am of the next day ) . From Südkreuz you can either use the S42 train ( going to Ostkreuz ) . This will take you to the districts of Kreuzberg , Friedrichshain and Prenzlauer Berg ( more or less the " party districts " of Berlin ) . The S42 is part of the " Ring " , the line that goes in circles around the inner city ( if you imagine a clock face with the most northern station ( Gesundbrunnen ) at 12 o'clock the S42 goes counter-clockwise and the S41 train goes clockwise . A full circle takes more than an hour and the view is not worth it , so try to catch the right direction ) . However the " Ring " touches Kreuzberg ( probably the most famous of Berlins districts ) only at the periphery , if you want to go there you might want to get off the S42 at Hermannstrasse and proceed with the tube U8 to Kottbusser Tor , right in the middle of Kreuzberg . At Südkeuz you can also take the S2 train going to Friedrichstrasse . If you want to see a few sights you get get off at Potsdamer Platz . Potsdamer Platz itself is more family-oriented entertainment - shopping malls , restaurants , cinemas , the film museum , waxworks and Lego land . But you can proceed by foot along the " Kulturforum " ( if you interested in architekture ; the " Philharmonie " , the most famous Berlin concert hall , is an interesting albeit not beautiful sight ) , stroll by the holocaust memorial until you arrive at the parliament building ( the former Reichstag ) . From there you can stroll down the avenue Unter den Linden to Friedrichstrasse and return with the S2 to Südkreuz . Südkreuz station is located in the Schöneberg district , so you could also explore that . The area around the station is only just being developed , there is not much to see yet . You 'd have to take the 204 bus to Kaiser-Wilhelm-Platz ( the day ticket is good for busses , too ) . For a selection of bars and cafes you can enter Crellestrasse just right the corner of Kaiser Wilhelm-Platz , or ask for Akazienstrasse ( Akazienstrasse and the streets that branch off have a lot of bars , restaurants , clubs etc ) . SChöneberg has also a vivid gay scene , if you specifically interested in / specifically want to avoid this you might want to go to / avoid Bülowstrasse and surroundings . From Südkreuz station the S45 will bring you to Schönefeld Airport ( goes every 30 minutes ) . However the last direct connection is about at 22.45 , which is probably to early for you - there are a few other options ( S42 to Treptower Park , then change to S9 to Schönefeld ) , but past midnight you will probably have to go by bus . S45 resumes operations at about 4.45 am . Since you were talking about skipping the night at a hotel , it would be one convenient solution for you to look for a room in Schöneberg ( not much hotels , but a lot of B&amp;B s and the like ) near Südkreuz and explore the city from there .
If you arrive at Terminal 1 on a through ticket , or have checked your luggage to final destination , or are travelling with hand luggage only , you should be able to do an airside transfer from terminal 1 . Terminal 5 is only for security checks for departing passengers and after passing security , all airside facilities actually exist at Terminal 3 , including departure gates , shops and airline lounges . This is the relevant information for <URL> . Note that there is no mention of Terminal 5 since the departures will be from the Terminal 3 G &amp; H gates . Here is a <URL> on Flyertalk which sounds similar to your situation , i.e. arriving on a domestic Alitalia flight and transferring to a flight to the USA . If you do need to collect luggage at Terminal 1 , you would exit landside and take relatively short walk to Terminal 3 , although there are additional shuttle buses that circulate from the long term parking areas to the terminals that you could take from Terminal 1 to Terminal 3 if walking is a problem .
The best place for these calculations is the " Great Circle Mapper " website . <URL> To find the distance between two or more airports just enter them with dashes between them . eg , JFK-DFW or SFO-IAD-LHR You can do multiple trips at once by separating them with commas . JKF-DFW , SFO-IAD-LHR
From the information provided online it seems that you may only have to pay for a date change which is as follows : Flight change fee 50 % of the original fare . Minimum and maximum amount of the fee is shown in the table . via wizzair.com Per flight , per passenger $ 10.00 - $ 60.00 / # 9.00 - # 53.00 <URL> This accounts for the original fare only . The baggage which you purchased is a separate add-on just like WIZZ Xpress priority boarding etc ; so they wo n't account to date changes . If you are still not satisfied you should contact there customer service @ 0330 977 0444 ( UK Number )
You do not need to renew your passport or obtain an emergency travel document to travel from the US to the UK as a British Citizen . You will be admitted to the United Kingdom with your expired passport . Your difficulty is returning to the USA . However , it will be a lot quicker and cheaper to take advantage of the renewal process while in the United Kingdom . See <URL> You can see what appointment slots are available in advance and book a convenient slot before you leave the USA ( potentially before you book your travel ) . You can use the premium one day service to obtain your replacement passport on the same day as your interview . ( That assumes your replacement gets authorised quickly ; and although there is no reason to expect a simple renewal to take long , you may wish to have a few days of padding . Personally I would want to start this process on the first day of arrival . ) Alternatively -- if the renewal is taking too long -- you may apply for an Emergency Travel Document while in the UK to travel to the US . If you are a permanent US resident , it should be accepted for entry , although you may wish to confirm this with the US Department of Homeland Security . Scroll down to " passport exemptions " : This information is from TIMATIC , the computer system that the airlines use to decide whether they can let you on the plane . There is free access to it here : <URL>
According to <URL> on Tripadvisor : yes , there are always taxis at Yangon airport : No problem at all , there 's always Taxis - at night they 're actually even cheaper as there 's less traffic ( general rule in Yangon nowadays ) - 7000-9000 Kyat would be an acceptable price to downtown ! If you use the Taxi booth mentioned by Dave , it 's less hassle but might be a little more expensive , if you ( only if you have small luggage ) walk 1 minute just outside the airport gates and flag down a Taxi there , it 's gon na save you around 2000 Kyat usually :-) But definitely no problem at all to find transportation ! Since Yangon is Myanmar 's most busy airport , I 'd be very much surprised if there is n't at least one taxi driver all the time there .
Do n't worry , you will be able to communicate in Hochdeutsch . One thing you should know is that the German you will hear and read in Austria is not the German you may hear in Hannover . There are some particularities ( <URL> , <URL> ) . However , if you have a good command of German this wo n't be a problem . Moreover , the Austrians when speaking have a typical accent when speaking German . How strong it is depends on the person . If you address an Austrian in German , he will reply in German . But how " standard " that German is depends again on the person . All this wo n't be a big issue as you have a good command of German . To get an idea of the accent and what you may here , you can have a look at <URL> . They even have features on typical Viennese words and expressions ( " Typisch Wienerisch " ) .
Yes . You are allowed to do vrijwilligerswerk , as it is called in Dutch , if you have a legal permit to be there . One exception is when you are awaiting a decision as to your status . <URL> contains Dutch-language information on the topic . Google Translate may be your friend . However , you might need to be careful with insurances : <URL> . I do n't know if you can get a visa through doing the volunteer labour , though . I would recommend to contact the organisation where you want to do volunteer labour for practical issues .
The rules are different in every country and every airport , but in general , you will not go through an immigration check when flying domestically within a single country . You will generally go through an immigration check when flying internationally in to a country , with some exceptions , namely when flying between countries that are part of the <URL> in Europe ( e.g. a flight from France to Germany is treated as a " domestic " flight even though they are two different countries , but a flight from the United States to France is still an international flight , and you will be interviewed by an immigration officer ) . Note however that territories , exclaves , islands , etc. . . may be considered part of a country , but still separate from the immigration and/or customs territory of that country . Travel to/from these areas may be subject to special immigration rules and you may be subject to an immigration interview . The exact details depend on the territory and country concerned and should be the subject of a separate specific question . However , you may be required to show ID at some point in the process , and in some cases there may be specific immigration checks , either a permanent set of systematic checks or through random controls . Passengers may be pulled aside for further checks at this point , and those staying within the country illegally could be caught . The risk of this depends greatly on the country involved and your circumstances .
If you intend to carry them in the plane as hand luggage , I guess it wo n't make it as it is beyond the 100 ml limit . But if you put it in your checked-in luggage , assuming those ca n't cause fire or damage to the plane , you should be ok . You can check with the airline to be 100 % sure .
From personal experience , I can tell you that I once ( almost ) was not allowed to board a plane because , at checkin , I was told I needed at least two empty pages in my passport to allow for stamps and visas . This was ( and is ) a requirement of the destination country , even though it had little relevance to me ( I already had a full page visa for said country , while the stamps are small ) . It took a lot of grovelling on my part to be let on board . It stands to reason that if you ca n't be stamped in , you wo n't be let in . I presume that this is why plenty of countries require two empty pages in your passport , upon entry : One to stamp you in , one to stamp you out .
end question
start question
How can I get a flight with a supersonic plane ?
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
It 's worth nothing that return flights are always from A-B-A . You 're asking for an open-jawed ( sort-of ) flight - and that 's almost always two one-way tickets . Sometimes on kayak.com they have variants that 'll show up if you select multiple airports in your " return flight " - you could try that ( in the " from " box , you can put MAD , and in the " to " box , put " DEL , BOM . However it may just find the cheapest return flight to DEL then . But it could be worth a try . I 'd suggest <URL> as another possible option . It 's like an online travel agent - you pay a small fee , and their experts find the cheapest flight they can for you . What you could do is create a contest on there , and indicate what you 've found , but that you 'd like a way to book it for the price you 've found , or for less if they can ;) ( disclaimer , I occasionally compete on there as an expert - there 's a discount link in my profile )
The longest non-stop ( by <URL> source ) flight was Newark to Singapore on Singapore Airlines flight SQ21 which is and 18 hour 50 minute flight of some 15,345 km . However , as of November 2013 , Singapore Airlines has discontinued this route . However for single flight number , allowing stopover , things are hard to research . Not many websites list tables of distances by flight number . So I resorted to thinking of a route and then looking on the airline websites to see if it was one flight number or split over two flight numbers . I suspect the longest route that could be a single flight number and have a stopover would be Northern Europe to Australia . So I searched on several airlines for flights . I found a few contenders ( but no definitive answers ) : NZ1 and NZ38 , both on Air New Zealand fly London to Auckland with a stop in Hong Kong in 26 hours and 40 minutes . A distance of 18,463 km . QF320 on Qantas and BA15 on British Airways fly London to Sydney with a stopover in Singapore . They both take 22 hours and 50 minutes . QF1 on Qantas goes from Sydney to London , again stopping in Singapore and is 23 hours and 25 minutes .
I never found the stereotypical rude Parisian I was warned about . Several people went far out of their way to help me in ways I would n't expect in my own city . I did not find a great number of people outside the tourism industry in Paris that spoke English . I did always use the French words and phrases I knew " excusez moi " , " salut " , " merci " , and if I could struggle by with those I would n't even ask " parlez vous anglaise " I got the impression people appreciated that . Using single words goes far , French or English , if you ca n't form a sentence . If you manage to form a broken sentence people will often help out by correcting your mistakes ! More people know more English vocabulary that you know French vocabulary but may not be able to make or parse English sentences . Be patient . Smile a lot . Never act rude or arrogant . Do n't talk loud when people do n't understand . When you get to your hotel or tourist information people will be able to speak English .
Yes , you can wear it , as <URL> does n't have anything against tin foil in any forms . Of course you 'd have to take it off for the metal detector , but that 's it .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
Mike Brant is buried in the Sde Yehoshua Jewish Cemetery in Haifa , also called Mahane ( camp ) David or Neve David after the neighborhood it located next to it . The Cemetery can be seen <URL> . There are two bus stations , one beneath it and one above it , different busses go to each station , so you should decide what entrance you need before . The location of the stations is : The red circle is the above station and the blue , the below . To find out what busses go there you can check the <URL> . The station in the german colony is called German Colony : Kiryat Eliyahu , Sderot Ben Gu ... ( the main street ) or German Colony : Yitskhak Sadeh . The station above ( red ) the cemetery is called Kfar Samir Cemetery : Military Cemetery , as can be seen from the picture , there are several stations there , and you do n't need the military cemetery , but the civilian cemetery , which is the next station after the military cemetery , you can ask the driver to tell you what station you need . The station below ( blue ) the cemetery is called The Old Cemetery : Sderot ha-Hagana , there is only one station there . I could find the exact location of the grave in the cemetery however , only a picture of the grave : ( <URL> ) There are more pictures of the grave online . Sadly I could n't find the exact location of the grave , only that it 's located near a wall , but it is n't clear what wall it is , and if it 's a wall separating the different cemeteries , or a bounding wall .
I think a better solution would be to go to your doctor before the trip and ask for a prescription and a letter explaining the diagnosis and the need . While in some countries a foreign prescription will be honored , in many it wo n't , and then you 'll have to go to a local doctor ( make sure your travel insurance covers it ) to get a local prescription . That 's when a letter from your doctor may come in handy . Make sure its written in an international language ( English/French/Spanish ) , preferably native to the areas you 're expecting to have troubles at . I do n't think its possible to answer your question directly without knowing exactly what medicine you 're talking about .
Yes , you can leave the station . The period of validity is said to be two days on their official embassy sites in both the US and <URL> , so you should be okay leaving the next day . <URL>
1 . From <URL> on the TfL website : If you are eligible to buy one of the following National Railcards : 16-25 Railcard [ ... ] You can get : Discounts on some off-peak travel on Tube , DLR , London Overground and National Rail services in London Not buses . 2 . From <URL> on the TfL website : [ no mention of railcards ] So , no . 2 second part . No . The price level of the daily cap is reduced because of your discount , but what the cap covers is the same .
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
Every ( tourist ) hostel in the old town of Cartagena in Colombia can arrange a taxi for you at any time . I would think any hotel can as well . If you 're on your own , you could try your best at calling a taxi company and arranging a pickup . But , asking for help at one of the tourist offices would probably be a better bet . Unless your Spanish is good . If you are comfortable walking through the old town in the middle of the night , taxis are waiting for rides on the eastern corner of the old town , near <URL> . I 've never been to the airport in Cartagena , but considering it 's not a small town , I would think that aiming for 4AM would not be a bad idea . But , that 's speculation .
There 's no time limit - as long as you 're traveling that day you will be allowed through security and allowed into the lounge . You do n't even need to be flying AA - as long as you can physically get to the lounge and have paid your money then you will be allowed in . The only real restriction is if you are planning to check luggage , in which case you will not be able to check your luggage until ~ 3-4 hours before the departure time of the flight .
You can tell what you are allowed to take on your plane by looking at your airline 's restricted items list ( they all tend to be much the same , as they are based off aviation rules ) . For example , <URL> . Observe that liquids all have a tick mark for checked baggage . It may also be worth checking that the airport does n't also have additional rules , if they publish any at all .
I suggest you go to the airport , and obtain your boarding passes there . There are three ways you 'll get them at the airport : If they have check-in machines , you can walk up to them and simply print the boarding pass ( note : depending on how crappy the software is , you may not be able to print them - this has n't happened to me in years , though , since the machines improved ) . You can walk up to the baggage drop-off and ask them to print the boarding pass for you . Depending on how busy/annoying they are , they may send you to a machine , though . You go to the normal check-in counter . This is guaranteed to work out fine , but may take a while , depending on how many other people are queuing . Whatever solution you choose , remember that as soon as you get to the " print your boarding pass " stage , you 're checked into the flight . Thus , you 're on the flight according to their system ( which is good if they kick people off an overbooked flight due to check-in order ) , which means it 'll be quite a hassle for them if you did n't make it to the gate . So you 're all fine .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
I see five ways to salvage the situation . Spend the night in Milan and leave early on the following day . You will then be in Antibes around noon . Take the train to Ventimiglia and spend the night there . On the following day , continue to Antibes . You will then be able to arrive in Antibes in the early morning Rent a car in Milan , drive to Antibes and drop it there . It 's a 4-5 hours drive . You will then arrive on Antibes in the late evening . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and continue to Antibes by taxi . You can expect this to cost around 200 EUR . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and then a train to Nice . The last trains leave at 21h49 and 22h40 from Ventimiglia . Nice you can take a taxi . Cost ~ 70 EUR
There are two issues that sometimes get confused : What 's allowed on the plane - This is determined by security rules . If a prescription drug is not a liquid that takes you over the liquids limit , then it 's allowed . If it takes you over the limit , it 's generally still allowed as long as you can prove that it was prescribed to you . Prescription drugs in pill form are not a problem at all . What 's allowed into the country / EU - This is determined by customs rules of each individual country . I do n't know the exact EU rules , but I would guess it 's similar to US/Canada rules , where less than 1 month supply of a prescription drug is certainly ok , but for some stronger/psychoactive drugs you need to have proof of prescription . In any case , DO NOT try and hide the fact that it 's Xanax by putting it into another bottle , etc. . Anything like this will just be a red flag for any official , either security or customs . Prescription drugs should be in original packaging , ideally with your name and prescribing doctor 's name / contact info on the packaging .
I ca n't see your video so I 'm not quite sure what you mean by " hidden fees " , but maybe <URL> would be a helpful starting point . Regarding baggage fees specifically , <URL> lets you include these when comparing flight prices . After performing a search , click " Show Toolbox " at the top of the left navigation bar , then " Add Baggage " and input the number of checked bags .
end question
start question
Which is the temple where you can enjoy an herbal sauna in Vientiane ?
Indeed as Doc says , it was Wat Sok Pa Luang , more commonly written as Wat Sokpaluang or , in Lao , " ວັດໂສກປ່າຫຼວງ " . Sokpaluang is also the name of the suburb or region of Vientiane where it 's located . The Wat is apparently also known as " The Jungle Temple " . Sadly , in answer to the part of your question If it still exists ? and according to reviewers on TripAdvisor , the answer is no because <URL> . I have n't found anything yet on whether it 's being rebuilt or opened elsewhere . I have n't found up-to-date pricing yet but here is pricing from 2011 <URL> : The Wat Sok Pa Luang herbal sauna and traditional massage is open to the public from 1-8pm daily . It costs 15,000 kip ( $ 1.90 US ) for the steam room and 35,000 kip ( $ 4.45 US ) for an hour massage . Lao nationals pay 30,000 ( $ 3.80 US ) kip for the same combo . ( I 've updated the exchange rate but it 's practically the same . ) It 's hard to find on Google Maps due to the variety of ways Lao can be written in the English &amp; French alphabets . <URL> with the help of the directions in some of the blog posts on the temple . You could walk there in about 45 minutes by heading south where half the embassies are located and turning left into a road that has the same name as the temple but apparently lacks a street sign . Obviously you could get a tuk tuk there more quickly and very cheaply too . It 's actually very close to the German Embassy , so you could just head there and then find the temple : <URL> is also more helpful than Google Maps in this case .
The best option is to make some Japanese friends at the conference and get them to take you out . If that does n't work out and you 're on your own , go to Tokyo 's premier foreigner-friendly watering hole <URL> and pick an <URL> , there 's something there for most tastes . Do not let the street touts steer you into bars , and try to remain somewhat skeptical if an attractive sudden acquaintance wants to drag you into an obscure bar tucked away deep inside a building . Also , instead of drinking all night , you can catch a taxi to the Tsukiji fish market ( it 's not very far away ) around 4 AM and go eat some primo sushi .
One journalist did attempt to <URL> - both the artificial labs and the natural spaces . He details it in his book - <URL> if you 'd like to read it . The highlights in nature : Several years ago , the Campaign to Protect Rural England declared a <URL> the most tranquil place in the country ( when the nearby military base is n't doing training exercises ) . 12 such quiet places exist in the US , with more found around the world . A spot in the <URL> in Washington is one , as are places in <URL> in Canada , <URL> in Minnesota and <URL> in Hawaii ( see gallery ) . The others , however , he keeps confidential . On the other hand , he identified a quiet place deep in the <URL> , he suspects other such places in Poland , Norway , Sweden and Finland Recently , <URL> was created to show the quiet spots on a summer day . So that gives some idea for sound levels in the US . As you 'd expect - away from people , cities , and wildlife tends to produce quiet , although windy areas also affect it . Aside from nature , he points out the quietest places are custom built , such as the <URL> , in Minnesota . <URL> : " Group tours are available a few times a year and include a brief stop at the anechoic chamber ( call the lab for details ) . But the facility has had so much interest in the 45-minute challenge that the founder Steven Orfield is considering making that option available to the public within the next year , and is working with the Guinness Book of World Records to establish an official record for the longest time spent in an anechoic chamber . The 45-minute challenge will not come cheap , however , as companies renting the space normally pay $ 300 to $ 400 an hour , and someone trained from the lab must be able to supervise the participants to ensure their safety . " UPDATE : As of this month , Microsoft now officially holds the Guinness World Record for quietest place on earth - <URL> .
You can use child carriers like the Ergo Baby carriers for transporting your infant on and off the plane , but they not appropriate to use while seated / seat belted . Once you are on the plane , the safest position for your infant is in a car seat ( but that means buying a seat for the infant , unless you are lucky and have a half empty flight ) or being held in your lap . You never want to buckle your seat belt around yourself and the infant . Some airlines have a second little seat belt that attaches outside your seat belt for the infant , but these are not real safe and not allowed in some countries .
<URL> suggests that many locations in Camden have links to Madness music videos . It also gives suggested tube stations and walking routes to visit these places .
Well , let 's look at whether it 's possible first , to be <URL> . You 'll want to enter one of the cars that 's empty , obviously , otherwise you run into other problems ( being accused of tampering or theft ) . This means you 'll want to do so out of sight . You could do this along the tracks , if you know the train stops at a signal , or in the changing yard - both tricky , and the latter probably trespassing - given you 're not allowed off passenger platforms by law . Metafilter has a <URL> , but repeats time and again - if you get caught , you 're in trouble . Not " we 'll kick you off the train " trouble , but we 're talking arrests . Possible charges include : Tickets ( fines ) Warrants WILL be issued if you do n't pay the fines in the county issued wilful trespassing ( train tracks and yards are federal property , so you WILL get charged ) breaking and entering ( although if it 's unlocked and open you could probably contests that one in court ) It also amuses me that <URL> exists ... Another thing to remember , from anecdotal experience . Two friends and myself were on an overnight train from Bucharest , Romania to Istanbul , Turkey . The train was fairly full , and we wandered through looking for more space . We found three empty boxcars at the back . We have NO problem with lack of comfort , but we thought space could be pretty good . It then turned out we 'd been allocated two seats each somehow ( they seemed to actually have a backpacker class ) so gave up on that idea and enjoyed our seats . Mid-way through the night we stopped in Bulgaria to change engines . We got off , and then realised what could have gone horribly wrong - the boxcars were no longer attached , and had long since gone somewhere else ...
Realistically there 's nothing near the station food-wise , with the exception of a Coke machine and a snack machine within the waiting room at the station itself ( make sure you have coins ! ) Even though you may have a 24 minute wait , the process actually varies dramatically depending on how many people are on the bus ( es ) . When the train arrives the buses will normally be lined up outside of the station ( having been used to bring in people to catch the XPT when it turns around and heads south again ) . People generally file pretty much straight off the train and onto the buses . For the more popular routes ( which basically just means the one to Brisbane ) there will be multiple buses , and they will normally load them one at a time , and they will depart as soon the they are full . The last bus will normally not leave until the scheduled time , but obviously the earlier the bus you get on , the earlier you 'll arrive in Brisbane ! It 's also not uncommon for the inbound XPT to be at least a few minutes late ( in fact , I do n't think I 've ever seen it actually be on time into Casino ! ) , so your 24 minutes probably is n't a real 24 minutes ... Your best bet is probably just to either bring something with you , and/buy something from the buffet car on the train ( keeping in mind that they often run out , and they close a while before they get into Casino ) The other option is to catch the night train , which is a train all the way to Brisbane , arriving early morning ( exact time depends on whether it 's during daylight savings or not ) - or just fly which is normally going to work out cheaper !!
I ca n't comment on Laos as I 've never been there for Songkran/New Year ( although it is probably my favorite place on the planet otherwise ! ) , however ... I was in Bangkok during Songkran several years ago ( 2004 I think ) , and it was an amazing atmosphere and experience , especially around Khao San Road . If you 're in a different part of the country there will still be some form of celebration , but it 's not as intense as in Bangkok/Khao San Road . Whether it 's worth the extra money to you is obviously not a question I can answer , but if it were me I would be handing over the $ 80 in an instant ! Keep in mind that logistically things can be a little more difficult during/around Songkran , especially if you 're staying around Khao San Road . Roads are closed/blocked , and even taxis/tuk-tuks/etc will not be able to get through so you may end up having to walk the last few blocks to/from your hotel - with the real possibility of getting very wet in the process ( although people are generally respectful of people with luggage/etc , there 's always collateral damage to worry about ... )
Which Embera Community ? I believe there are several Embera communities ( including but not limited to Embera Drua ( Upper Chagres ) , Embera Puru and Arimae ) , and hence various different places one can be picked up along the Chagres on the way to the village . Hence this question is kind of on the broadish side according to TSE 's regulations . Nevertheless I understand that finding information on the topic is quite challenging , and I assume that for the purpose of your question any information to privately reach any village will do . So here we go . Visit Embera Drua <URL> explains how to visit the <URL> . It suggests contacting the village to arrange a private visit . More importantly , it mentions a rendez-vous point on the lake , which I assume is Lake Alajuela , at Puerto El Corotu . This might be the place you are looking for . As it turns out , the <URL> , with information on how to visit , and detailed instructions on how to reach Puerto El Corotu . Quoting from the website ( emphasis mine ) : Driving Directions from Panama City Take the Transístmica Highway to the community of Cabima . Or , to arrive quickly ( and bypass city congestion ) , you can choose to take the Corredor Norte to the " Colon / Las Cumbres " exit , where you will end up again on the Transístmica . Then , continue north toward Colon on the Transístmica Highway for 6.8 kilometers to La Cabima . There , you will see a Super 99 grocery store , Mr. Precio and a Pío-Pío restaurant in a small shopping center on the right . Turn right after the shopping center and pedestrian bypass . Immediately after turning , follow the road as it curves slightly to the left . Continue for 6.5 kilometers until you reach the Bayano Cement Factory ( Cemento Bayano ) . Turn left at the factory 's sign marked " Cemento Bayano . " Continue on for 8 kilometers until you reach a green and yellow one-story building on your left . This is the Panama National Environmental Agency ( ANAM ) station in Chagres National Park . Pull in and register as a park visitor and pay a small entrance fee ( $ 1 per person for Panamanians , $ 3 for others ) . Exiting the station , turn left back onto the road . Follow this road to the lake . This is the port of Corotú . Welcome ! You can park your car at the port securely . There is a police presence overseeing the port all day . Moreover , the website mentions the possibility of helping you arrange transport to Puerto el Corotu . Below are the contact details : Google Maps Meeting Point Curiously enough , <URL> which could also be interesting to you . It 's difficult to say if this is Puerto El Corotu , or even if it is for charter boats alone , or which community will be picking you up here . Nevertheless it 's still a valid clue in my opinion .
A Swiss online resource I know is <URL> . It lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland that are worth a visit . I quickly checked it , and all I know of are on the list . Unfortunately the list is in German , but at least some of the further links are also available in English . If you 're looking for an English resource I would recommend <URL> . It also lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland and also here I could found all spas I know . I personally can recommend <URL> . It is a little bit out of the way , but it is really beautiful and also from an architectural point of view worth a visit .
As a native Londoner : The weather in the UK is notoriously variable , so the only way to know for sure is to check nearer the time . But it 's likely to be around freezing , maybe as low as -10 C or as high as +10 C. I would certainly bring some warm clothes . Snow is possible , but does n't happen every year . If the weather is very cold or snowy , prepare for potential public transport delays . London is normally dressed up for Christmas , yes . You should find Piccadilly Circus/Oxford Street in particular will have Christmas decorations up . Depending on how close it is to Christmas , prepare for potential crowding in some popular tourist areas ( e.g. Oxford Street is often busy ) . London has a lovely atmosphere around Christmas , though . Hope you enjoy your trip ! Like all enormous cities , plenty will be happening . <URL> is a good place to look for events / restaurants / etc. .
Visa-free transfers in China are very limited . In particular , your inbound flight into China must arrive at the same airport as you are the later departing from . So arriving in Tianjin and departing from Beijing will not be possible . The train trip in between does not make a difference . For the 72-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules at regulations at : <URL> For the 24-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules here : <URL> - but they are even more restricted , requring you to stay in the international transfer part of the airport . Since you are taking a domestic train , these rules do not apply either .
In principle yes , but under some conditions , that in practice could mean no . And do n't take my word for it , it 's your own risk . I found <URL> and <URL> link very helpful as they provide more detail than you would usually find when the 72h visa-free transit is explained . ( See also <URL> . ) So if step 3 of your journey is actually confirmed and you have a seat on the plane by the time you arrive at Chinese immigration , they should let you in ( at their disclosure ) and you are fine . The problem is that when you board your first flight ( Osaka to Beijing or whatever the first leg of that journey is ) , they airline should and will check if you have a visa for China . If your booking for the Beijing to Europe leg is on another ticket they might have no means of verifying your outbound flight and deny you boarding . A good way to ship around this problem is to have both the Osaka - > Beijing and the Beijing - > Europe leg on one and the same ticket/booking , i.e. a stopover , even better if with the same airline . In the best case you might already be issued your boarding pass for the second flight in Osaka . Be prepared to tell whoever checks you in in Osaka that you will use the 72h visa-free transit and show proof of your onward flight . The same holds at immigration in Beijing , have a boarding pass for the second flight ready or at least a printout of your booking . I hear they have a special booth for 72h visa-free transit in Peking airport . It might be a good idea to get this booking from an actual travel agent instead of a website to make sure .
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
In general the way it works is that you pay duty when you import something permanently to a country . If you are visiting a country , you generally do not pay import duty on something you are bringing in temporarily . That 's why you do n't have to pay duty on things you bring with you when you visit a country as a tourist . The issue is that they have to believe that , if you are visiting for a short time , you will be taking these things out again when you leave . If you arrive with one laptop and one phone , that both look used , they do n't usually worry . If you arrive with three laptops still in their boxes they will expect you to prove that they are not going to be imported . Some countries might make you register the things you bring in , and/or pay a deposit which is returnable when you take the things out again . The only way to find out for sure is to check the rules of each country you are visiting
Oh this is mine . Firstly , you 'll want the flight path . This is <URL> , provided they stick to it . <URL> . This is correct . I 'll now explain why . As you can see from the map , you fly over water a bit , down the coast . The only visible land is to your left . So initially , you definitely want the left . Then you 'll cross over part of the Taranaki coast out by New Plymouth . If you 're lucky , you 'll have a clear view of Mt Taranaki / Egmont . If it passes slightly more inland , to your LEFT again , you may have a view of volcanoes Ruapehu ( erupted in 1997 ) Ngauruhoe and Tongariro . You may recognise Mt Doom from Lord of the Rings ;) Further south you may get a glimpse of Wellington , before crossing Cook Strait and seeing the beautiful Marlborough Sounds , or if slightly further west - Golden Bay and Farewell Spit . Then the best part starts - the South Island and the imposing Southern Alps . There 's some snow at all times of the year , but it does n't matter when - they 're stunning to see and fly over . You 'll also get to see the amazing lakes - Tekapo , Pukaki , Hawea and Wanaka , and finally Wakatipu - the lake alongside the alpine city of Queenstown . With the Remarkables range in the background , this setting is spectacular , and initially the left side is best , although the plane will then turn in towards the airport . And then you 'll have the final approach . One of the most amazing approaches you 'll ever do by air - flying between the mountains ( with no radar , btw ) and down to the little airport , 10 min outside of Queenstown . At this point LEFT or RIGHT is fine - it 's spectacular both ways , and the plane usually circles once before going in . Finally , touchdown ! Welcome to Queenstown . Do n't forget to Bungy jump ;) EDIT And naturally , flying back up to Auckland , you 'll want to sit on the right hand side for this scenery . However for the South Island part , either side is spectacular - it 's just the North Island that the left pretty much just looks over ocean ...
According to <URL> the Saarland - and Rheinland-Pfalz-Ticket have the same validity : practically all regional routes inside the Saarland and Rhineland-Palatinate , as well as a few into neighbouring states . The PDF lists all routes where the ticket is valid .
There are actually several , as found in a quick google search . But one that matches your area certainly seems to be <URL> . It is just under an hour from Chester , 10 minutes from the seaside town of Rhyl , and half an hour away from the Victorian Pier at Llandudno . A similarly close one is <URL> , although it 's a bit closer to the Chester side of North Wales . I believe the area names you 're looking for might be Denbighshire , which both these castles are located in .
Here 's a <URL> about it , including a pointer to the location on <URL> . As you can see , it 's hard to find and there 's barely anything there aside from a few overgrown stone walls . The last couple of photos are of a shrine along the way , not the ruins .
end question
start question
Can I apply for UK tourist visa from France if I have a Schengen visa issued by Germany ?
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
Actually she can stay for up to 6 months visa-free , but this is decided by the border guard on arrival . The more documentation you provide supporting her reasons for visiting ( and above all , her intention to go back ) , the more likely she 'll be granted a 6-month stay . Curious : why do you " need her to stay longer " ? That 's what I would ask myself if I was a UK border agent , and I would like to see documentation verifying it . By the way , as far as I 'm aware she 'd Need to exit the country to get a visa if she first entered visa-free . One can change from a long-stay ( eg . work , student ) visa to another inside the UK , but not from visa-free status to a visa
This should not be an issue in big stations . Usually they have an international ticket desk . Though my experience does n't include Germany , I was able to buy tickets for foreign trains in France ( for Italian , Spanish and Belgian trains ) , in the Czech Republic ( for Swedish trains ) , in Sweden ( for German and Italian trains ) , and probably others that I do n't remember .
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
No , you do n't need any other visa . You would not get one if you tried to apply for it . On the other hand , your point of entry is indeed Germany , it 's not even something that 's a matter of interpretation . You will go through a passport check and get an entry there , at which point there is nothing physically stopping you from leaving the airport and driving through several countries if you want to . That 's the way airport are setup everywhere in the Schengen area . But allowing you to enter a country with a visa issued by another one is the whole point of the Schengen regulations ( or at least one of its cornerstones ) . It 's by no means mandatory to have a visa from every Schengen country you intend to visit ( what would be the point of a common visa policy if it were the case ? ) nor even from the country you are entering first ( as the rule is very clear : you have to apply to your main destination , not to the country of first entry ) . In some very specific cases , showing up somewhere unexpected with a visa from another country can raise questions about the truthfulness of your application and your real intentions but in your situation , transiting through a major hub with a multiple-entry visa and a ticket to somewhere else , that 's extremely unlikely to be a concern .
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
When it comes to traveling within the Schengen area , a type D visa is equivalent to a regular residential permit . You are basically allowed to visit other Schengen countries for up to 90 days within a 6 month period . There are some caveats - you must carry your passport or equivalent travel documents , be able to document the purpose of your visit ( going on holiday should be enough ) , document your ability to finance the trip , be of no danger to national security or public health and not have been specifically expelled from the country you are traveling to . Since there is no immigration control on the borders between Schengen states , these requirements are in most cases rather theoretical . If however you should be checked , you probably save a lot of hassle if you have the required documentation handy .
An Algerian national needs to apply for a visa in order to enter the UK , even if they have a French visa and even if they are taking the Eurostar . You will not be able to show the UKVI people your visa at the rail station , or even at the border . On the bright side , the application does n't take three months to process ; it 's more like a week . You can apply online at the <URL> . If you have a clean history and otherwise qualify , you will be able to access the various opportunities to upgrade your application to priority status . That will cost over and above the GBP 83 for the basic application fee . The downside is that since you are in France , you probably do not have all the requisite evidence to hand . It 's something to consider before applying . For your last question : no , the ' spur of the moment ' option is n't available to those travelling on an Algerian passport .
Unfortunately , there is no way to definitively answer this question . Visa outcomes depend from embassy-to-embassy and case-to-case . From what you are describing , it appears the mistake was made by the German embassy rather than by you - although you should have taken the prerogative to check a visa of the correct length had been issued , but there 's not much you can do about that now . I would suggest that you apply for an Estonian Schengen visa and when you 're called for an interview , take documentation along with you to prove your student status in Germany , copies for the application form of your old visa , et al and explain your situation to the visa officer who interviews you . And then hope for the best .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
Yes , actual visas are <URL> : As a foreigner , you are required by Thai Immigration Law to initially enter the Kingdom on a Visa if you wish to have a long-term stay in Thailand . This can be a visa ( tourist visa for 60 days or non-immigrant visa for 90 days ) issued by a Thai Embassy or Consulate outside of Thailand . Also note that the tourism visa is 60 days , although it can be extended once in the country to 90 days . If you want 90 days off the bat , you need to apply for a non-immigrant visa , and that in turn requires proof of business ( sponsored by Thai company ) , education ( study in Thailand ) or retirement/marriage to a Thai national . See the aptly named <URL> forums for the latest scoop on what this means in practice .
Per the <URL> , a " general visitor " ( with or without visa , depending on citizenship ) should not " live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or successive visits " . So if you already made several long stays and try to come back for several months , there might be a ( small ? ) risk that the border force officer checking your passport would suspect you are lying about the purpose of your stay in the UK and are actually living there illegally . I also remember reading about a limit of not more than six months in any twelve months but I do n't know if it 's a hard limit or just a rule of thumb and I ca n't find any official source for that . If that 's the case , traveling around March should be no problem , traveling in May would be more difficult ( if I understand your description correctly , at that point , you will have spent 8 months of the previous year in the UK ) . I am not a lawyer but I assume that formally , as in most countries , neither a proper visa ( if your situation made one necessary ) nor a previous visit would entitle you to enter the UK . Border officers will typically evaluate whether your fulfill the requirements for entry every time you cross the border , which means that every time you leave the country , you expose yourself to the risk of being refused entry , however small . In any case , if you are questioned at the border , anything you might provide to establish that you are a legitimate visitor ( details and documentation of where you stayed and will be staying , details of people you want to visit or things you want to do , name of places you intend to see , funds to support yourself , a return ticket to your country of residence , etc. ) might be helpful .
The answer is more or less given in two related <URL> <URL> . So in theory you should be able to travel to the UK with a recently expired passport . However , as it is mentioned in the comments , do expect issues . You might also be denied boarding , by either the ferry or carrier , since they have to bring you back when denied entry .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
In short the answer is yes you do need a separate visa for Belarus . Your Russian Student Visa does n't allow you to enter Belarus . The reason that it has the names of both countries is because the form they use is exactly the same . From the <URL> : Although Russia and Belarus use the same migration card , travelers should be aware that each country maintains its own visa regime . U.S. citizens wishing to travel to both nations must apply for two separate visas . A traveler entering Russia directly from Belarus is not required to obtain a new migration card , but at his or her option may do so if blank ones are available at the time of entry .
I do n't know how diligent each and every consulate is in enforcing this rule but in principle you should not be able to do that . Here is article 6 of the Schengen Visa Code : Consular territorial competence An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Point 2 provides a bit of leeway and point 1 could theoretically allow you to submit your application elsewhere and have it forwarded to the proper consulate but I am not aware of any Schengen countries offering this . To the best of my knowledge , you must generally be a resident in the UK to apply to one of the consulates there . Also note that visa applications for virtually all Schengen countries in London are handled by third-party outsourcing companies like VFS Global or TLS Contact . As a regular tourist , your application wo n't even reach the relevant consulate . I have n't check them all but the websites from the embassies of <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> all contain language to that effect .
Starting in October 2014 , <URL> . India currently offers visa-on-arrival to tourists from only 11 countries , including Finland , Singapore and Japan . A quote from their Planning Minister on the matter : " We have decided to extend the visa-on-arrival facility to tourists from 180 nations . It will take five to six months for the respective departments to put the required infrastructure in place . We hope to implement this from the next tourist session beginning October , " The electronic visa-on-arrival will be available at 26 major airports in India and would be valid for 30 days from the date of the tourist 's arrival in India . Note , however , that this does not include all countries - for example , nationals from Pakistan , Sudan , Afghanistan , Iran , Iraq , Nigeria , Sri Lanka and Somalia still can not get visas on arrival .
end question
start question
Can you travel to the US 6 months before your tourist visa expires ?
I have n't heard or come across a rule which requires you have six months or more validity on a US visa to be allowed in . <URL> : The visa validity is the length of time you are permitted to travel to a port-of-entry in the U.S. ... Additionally , the visa expiration date shown on your visa does not reflect how long you are authorized to stay within the U.S. Entry and the length of authorized stay within the U.S. are determined by the Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ) Officer at the port-of-entry each time you travel . What I believe you are talking about is the minimum validity of your passport that is required . <URL> : I understand that my passport needs to be valid for at least six months ; is this correct ? The requirement that a passport is valid for travel for six months beyond the holder 's stay in the United States is waived for certain nationalities . <URL> . Which means that if your country is listed among the ones in the PDF document , having less than six months validity of your passport will not be an issue . Additionally , <URL> ( although this might be specific to if you 're entering under the visa waiver programme ) but <URL> , and will only limit your stay period to whatever date your passport expires . However , <URL> implies you do need to get your passport renewed if it will be valid for less than six months from the time you enter . Please obtain a new passport before your interview if : Your passport is going to expire in less than 6 months after the time you enter the United States . Your situation , then , will vary depending on what residency status you hold in a country as well as your citizenship .
I do not think that you have any reason to worry . Remember that each country sets its own criteria for visa issuance , and that the criteria are different for different types of visas . France is not part of the United States , and will not be concerned with whether you qualify for the B1/B2 visa . It will be sufficient for them that you have it . Because visitor visas have different requirements than student visas , it 's unlikely that anyone at the French consulate could even guess whether you continue to qualify for the US visitor visa , given that your application to them should be designed to show you meet the requirements for a student visa . There is one thing though . If , while processing your visa application , France determines that you are wanted in the US for a crime , they might notify the US of your location . ( And most likely refuse your visa . )
Legally , probably . Sounds iffy , but that 's the state of the law at present - it 's evolving and is ' iffy ' . A US Appeals Court has determined <URL> , and that : " It is clearly established in this circuit that police officers can not , consistently with the Constitution , prosecute citizens for violating wiretapping laws when they peacefully record a police officer performing his or her official duties in a public area , " the appeals court said . The <URL> and states that : When in public spaces where you are lawfully present you have the right to photograph anything that is in plain view . That includes pictures of federal buildings , transportation facilities , and police . Such photography is a form of public oversight over the government and is important in a free society . and in regards to your camera/phone : Police officers may not confiscate or demand to view your digital photographs or video without a warrant . The Supreme Court has ruled that police may not search your cell phone when they arrest you , unless they get a warrant . Although the court did not specifically rule on whether law enforcement may search other electronic devices such as a standalone camera , the ACLU believes that the constitution broadly prevents warrantless searches of your digital data . The Huffington Post has an article - <URL> which confirms that it 's legal in all 50 states : " There 's no law anywhere in the United States that prohibits people from recording the police on the street , in a park , or any other place where the public is generally allowed , " Osterreicher said . However , conflicting state laws might still find you in hot water - they might go after you with another sneaky rule , for example , from the same article , according to Massachusetts law , citizens are permitted to record police officers in public , but only if the police have been informed that a recording is taking place . You 're more likely to run into problems if your recording interferes with police business , or if you 're being a nuisance . So if in doubt - ask the officers that you 're filming first , and avoid the complications of offense , arrest and trial ( if not worse ) if possible .
Having a visa for India does not allow you access to Nepal and conversely having a visa for Nepal does not allow you access to India . Nepal and India are two separate countries . The fact that they offer each others citizens visa free entry does not waive the rules for other nationalities . To visit Nepal , you will need to meet Nepal 's entry requirements for your nationality .
When it boils down to it , provided all your travel plans go well , it may not be a problem . The 6 month limit is possibly a bit long these days , and indeed <URL> , but it 's there , and it 's there for when things go wrong . Every country is trying to get tourists ( well , maybe not Saudi Arabia ) , but to not break the law . You 're only allowed into a country with a valid , legal passport , and sometimes a valid visa . Now , if your passport is expired , suddenly you have an unlawful situation . Your own country effectively says your document is not a valid document . So now said foreign country has someone without a valid document . How do they get you home ? Unless you 're neighbours , and can just pop across the border , it 's now nearly impossible to leave the foreign country , as you 'd have to travel through another country which wo n't accept an illegal document . <URL> . Airlines , if they let you travel without a valid visa/passport , are made to bring you back at their own expense . So they wo n't want to take you either . Indeed for Australia , it 's not mandatory that you have the six months , but <URL> . So now that we have a reason to not allow people to have their passports expire while in the country , why six months ? If I 'm there for 2 days , and the expiry is 6 months later , why should they care ? Caution . First , a lot of the countries that have these limits , offer six month visas . Meaning you could stay right up to the day of departure . So that 's one reason . Now , every day that you get closer to departure risks you having an invalid passport if you overstay even a day . So for most countries , just having an arbitrary limit aims to prevent this issue . If you 're suddenly in a car accident and ca n't fly out , or , heck , even if your flight is delayed a couple of days , it 's best for all involved that nobody 's passport expire as a result . Otherwise , legally you become an overstayer , and by law they 'd have to deport you , which could be tricky if you 're ill . Imagine the situation where you 're stricken with , say , swine flu , your passport has now expired , and you get deported . On top of this , you 're also considered an overstayer , which will be on your permanent record , and in some the case of some countries will almost certainly preclude you from returning . Not every country has this six month limit . Many just <URL> . NZ and a few other countries <URL> , although apparently <URL> after your visa ends . Each country deals with this in a different way , but the ' six month rule ' is common and simple for all involved to understand .
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
Currently the only variant to visit the cosmos is to go to the <URL> The only way to visit the ISS is to go there aboard a Russian <URL> . Note : you must go through some training before this . The price is up to ( and more to go to open space ) . In the near future the Russian company RosCosmos is going to provide tours around the Moon , but it is still a project , not a real tour perspective . Other tours are all about near-Earth flights . Update <URL> <URL> the first commercial flight to the Moon in 2017 ( 50 years from Appolo 1 flight ) , the price is $ 300.000.000 for two places . Flight will be done via russian Soyuz . Good luck !
You should not have any troubles travelling directly to USA from Sweden . At most , you 'd get questions at the airport in Sweden when checking in , and you 'd have to explain ( or prove ) your current status in Sweden . The US authorities wo n't care much where are you flying from , as long as you hold a valid visa . I myself travelled on a B1/B2 visa from Sweden one month ago , and I 'm not a Swedish citizen either . There were n't any problems at all . However , I 'd bring copies of documents certifying your status in the country ( for example , letter from Migrationsverket , letter from Skatteverket with your personal number , and/or a valid Swedish ID document ) . I did n't have any of those with me , though I managed to get by only by showing a credit card issued by a Swedish bank and speaking in Swedish , but your mileage may vary -- in retrospect , I definitely should have brought supporting documents .
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
I went to a traveling agency here in Indonesia , they said I would need an invitation from an Indonesian , a " sponsor " they call it ( someone that vouches for you ) . Although it seemed to be possible in 2010 . See this thread <URL> A week or so later ... After discussing further about my issue with a couple of expats living here . They told me that " whatever the law says you can always find an agency with ' special connections ' who will work it out " . Their advice was to simply go to a few agencies that are in bigger cities &amp; see if they can make it happen . So that 's what I did . And here is what I was proposed those agencies : the agency can provide a sponsor for me ( see above for explanations ) fee for a regular visa extension have a biometric picture taken by the immigration office . This happens 4 business days after applying for the visa once the biometric picture is taken , the waiting time is around 6 business days Depending on the visa extension agency , the total cost varies between 650 ' 000 IDR and 1 ' 275 ' 000 IDR . The " advertised " total waiting time also varies depending on the agency , some are probably better at doing this ( &amp; some are probably over optimistic in order to attract more customers ) , but 10 business days ( 2 weeks ) if there is not any public holidays seems to be common . My experience is : just give a call to lots of agencies , it 's the fastest &amp; most effective way to have a knowledge on your options . See resources for agencies below . An article confirming all this <URL> confirmed all the info provided by the agency &amp; added even further info/tips . To extend either a Tourist Visa or Social Visa , you must have an Indonesian citizen as a ' sponsor ' . That can be anyone -- guest house owner or staff , a friend or acquaintance . [ ... ] If you arrive in Indonesia with a Tourist Visa , you will arrive without a sponsor . ( since a sponsor is not required to get the visa ) After arrival you must find a sponsor in order to get an extension . You have some flexibility , if you 're going to extend several times , in that you can have a different sponsor each month . If you 're traveling around the country and applying at different immigration offices , you 'll need new sponsor each time -- a local . [ ... ] The sponsor usually has to be a resident of the particular immigration office 's jurisdiction . For example , if you 're in Lombok , you will apply for your extension at the Mataram Immigration Office . [ ... ] How to find a sponsor in a place you 've never been before ? Ask at your guest house or hotel . One of the staff or perhaps one of their friends will do it or they 'll know someone who speaks English , who 's done a sponsorship before and is willing to help you out . You 'll probably have to pay them to do so ! 100,000-250 ,000 rp is normal ( Actually , 100,000 rp is very very low . They 'd be doing you a huge favor at that rate ) . [ ... ] Regardless of which visa type you have , you have two methods to extend that visa once you 're in the country . Each visa extension , regardless of visa type , currently costs 250,000 rp / about $ 25-27 US per month . Hiring a Visa agency to do it for you - Give the money for your extension to the agency , along with their fees . Usually total cost is 450,000 -- 650,000 rp . That is almost double to triple the price of the doing extension itself . But you 've seen how much work is involved in making an extension each month . The agency will have to visit the immigration office all those times instead of you . Indonesian 60 days tourist visa is extendable 4 times ! Good news came along with this research , both the agency &amp; article discussed above mentioned the fact that I can extend my Indonesian 60 days visa 4 times 30 days ! Which means I can stay a total of 180 days ( 60 + 4x30 ) in Indonesia . Resources for agencies Here is a list of web pages providing the details of some visa extension agencies ( or freelance agents ) , you can easily find more by doing some googling : No 130 , Jalan Bypas Ngurah Rai , Kuta . +62 ( 0 ) 81337252636 , <URL> Mr Ketut Punia , Bali Lines in Jalan Hanoman , 0812 3618810 , <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's an important distinction between leaving the US temporarily , and leaving permanently , which is as much as anything dictated by you returning to your place of residence . If you are in the US under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and you leave the US for a few weeks to visit Canada ( or Mexico ) with an intent to return to the US then you are deemed to have only temporarily left the US for that period , and thus your 90 days carries through - even though you 're out of the country . In the days of the I-94W forms ( the green form you used to fill in when arriving in the US ) , you would actually keep your I-94W in your passport even when you left the US . If you are leaving US to return to your place of residence , then you are leaving permanently . In this case your VWP period would end when you left the country , and historically that 's when you would have turned in your I-94W . As you have a work visa to be in Canada , for the period of that visa Canada would be your place of residence . That means that every time you leave the US your visit will have deemed to have ended as you 've returned to your place of residence , and thus permanently left the US - which means that when you re-enter the US the VWP clock will be restarted . At the end of the day the Canada/Mexico condition is intended to stop people doing visa runs from the US to Canada/Mexico , thus getting another 90 days on their VWP . If it 's clear that 's not what you 're doing then you 'll have no issues . Do n't forget that to enter the US under the VWP you will first need to <URL> . ( Note : Usual provisions apply . IANAL , but I 've entered the US around 40 times both on VWP and on Visas so I know the processes fairly well ! If you want a definite answer , either contact <URL> , or talk to a qualified immigration lawyer )
Your friend will need a new visa to enter Libya . All old visas are considered invalid and no longer accepted . Please note , Visa requirements have also changed . Some nationalities do not require visa to enter Libya now ( while they needed before the revolution ) and some do require a visa now ( while they did not require one before the revolution ) . So let your friend ask the local Libyan embassy .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
You can not overnight inside of most National Parks in your car , but you can in the National Forests than surround them . Crater Lake , for example , is surrounded by Umpquah National Forest . You can boondocks there for free . This screen shot from the " public lands " app for iPhone shows it : There are two " dispersed camping " areas - Twin Lakes and a shelter . Typically you just need to be 250 ' away from a road . Your best bet is to sleep in a tent , but often you can find a Forest road that you can park off of . Your absolute best bet is to find the forestry office or visitor center and ask there where the best place to sleep would be . Absent that , just find some place out of sight and you 'll be fine .
If you have only 2 weeks - 3 days in Moscow = 11-10 days , then forget about European part of Russia and go straight to Siberia . I do n't know why everybody suggests TSR , but personally it is very dull to sit in train for a week . First try to feel Moscow life rhythm . You will see later how it is different in Siberia . Then I suggest you to fly from Moscow to Yekaterinburg and move from there by train . IMHO Siberia gem is in its boundless territory with some scent of wilderness . You can feel it only by traveling by train or car . In Siberia you can feel that Moscow is far away from that region ( no wonder that fugitive serfs ran away to there to start a new life ) . Try to visit Tomsk , Omsk . Visit Kemerovo to see industrial Siberia , though I think that it is the worst city in Russia 8 ) Then go to Altai . Altai is a must . Krasnoyarsk is a must too ( Yenisei is a mighty Siberian river ) . From Krasnoyarsk fly back to Moscow . I do n't think that you would be able to see Baikal due to lack of time . BTW Altai also needs extra time , but if you traveling around why do n't visit it even for a while . Keep in mind that spring is time when ticks wake up from winter sleep . Siberia was always in front lines of tick encephalitis infections in Russia .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
There is no such thing as a " tourist " Schengen visa . Indeed , you wo n't find any information about " categories " of short stay visas in the regulation because there are only three types of Schengen visas : short stay visas , airport transit visas ( which do not allow the holder to get out of the airport ) and limited territorial validity visa ( for special cases including some refugees or diplomats ; you wo n't get one without knowing ) . All regular short stay Schengen visas cover a range of different purposes , including attending conferences . On the other hand , lying on the application ( i.e. pretending you are going to do some tourism when you want to attend a conference ) is obviously not OK . But if you hold a multiple-entry visa and already used it for the trip you mentioned in the application , then it 's completely fine to use it for other purposes . Be aware that border guards can check that you fulfil the conditions of your visa at any time and therefore inquire about your income , purpose , etc. when crossing the border , even though you had to explain all this to get the visa in the first place . So it 's good to have documents to establish the purpose of your trip in case someone asks . See <URL> to know what those documents are in your case . See also <URL> <URL> or <URL> for detailed explanations of what you can and can not do with a Schengen visa in a range of related situations .
Ah , German nitpicking ... Willkommen in Deutschland ! But have no fear , since this is Germany there 's a well-defined process for appealing . The German Embassy in Manila , Philippines has a <URL> about how to apply for a " remonstration against " ( their term ! ) the visa rejection , and I 'm sure more or less the same process applies for the Chennai consulate . Quoting the relevant bits : You can remonstrate only in writing , and your remonstration must contain the following details : Your name , first name , date of birth , place of birth , and the number of your passport The date your application was rejected A serviceable address that contains the street name , house - or apartment number , City / Town / Village , postal code , if applicable : please state your e-mail address The remonstration must be signed by your own hand ( a remonstration by a third party e.g. your sponsor , can only be accepted and processed if you have given your sponsor a power of attorney , which is submitted with the remonstration ) . And If you applied for a visa of the category " C " ( Schengenvisa ) , the deadline for filing the remonstration is one ( 1 ) month after your received the letter of rejection . You can submit by mail , fax or e-mail , but if e-mail , you have to send in a scan of a printed letter with your signature . And obviously the better you can explain the discrepancy ( a revised letter and/or note from your office should do nicely ) , the higher the chances of success . Incidentally , if your remonstration also fails you can apparently try once more with the High Court in Berlin , but that 's probably a bit overkill for a tourist visa ...
Such organizations generally only occur by government mandate , as buying insurance ( given that 's what the combined funds are ) is always a cost on a business . There are no overall regulations . You will need to consider where the travel agent you 're buying your travel from is located , and review the latest regulations of that state . The safest bit is always to purchase travel insurance that includes travel agency bankruptcy from a separate source to your travel agency . The most relevant information as to what exists in the USA was off <URL> , and they note that the regulations vary significantly from state to state . Several laws that affect sellers of travel are common to most U.S. jurisdictions . These include : ... Claim forms . These regulations have increased in number and complexity with the greater use of travel restitution statutes . Many states have enacted laws requiring claims forms to be issued to the consumer when purchasing travel services . These forms are used by the consumer to file a claim against the seller of travel , to be collected from the state 's restitution fund , if the seller of travel or the provider of travel goes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to deliver the travel services . The following states have laws for registration , licensing , or bonding of sellers of travel or otherwise governing travel sales : California , Delaware , Florida , Hawaii , Illinois , Iowa , Louisiana , Massachusetts , Nevada , New York , Oregon , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island , Virginia , and Washington ( State ) . However , seller-of-travel regulations are in flux . For example , in 2003 Ohio repealed its registration program . California law was revamped in 2007 to expand the scope of services that are covered by the seller-of-travel laws .
For travel in the US ( which I did in April ) you only need your passport as a form of ID . This is for the immigration process ( you 'll need a visa , most likely , in your passport ) , and for all internal flights as well . It is possible to fly internally without a passport as a foreigner , as an English friend did in April as well , but it was VERY difficult , as every security person expects you to have your passport available to travel with .
end question
start question
Traveling from Ireland to UK on a South African passport ?
It depends on the airline . Some airlines require passports and if the only passport you have is South African , then you also need a visa to go with it . However , not all transportation operators between Ireland and the UK require passports for British citizens -- several other forms of ID/documentation can also suffice . There 's a ( non-authoritative , possibly inaccurate ) list <URL> . There should n't be any immigration control on arrival in London , due to the Common Travel Area .
Given your choice of tags I believe <URL> is relevant : there is no formal requirement in United Kingdom law for British Citizens to carry a passport to enter the United Kingdom and that despite being from six years ago is still the law . However note the risk of delay . If you do n't need a passport ( or travel document equivalent for such purpose ) you wo n't need a visa . The length of time your passport has been invalid wo n't help .
According to the <URL> website , prepared food for personal consumption is not included in the <URL> , provided that the total value of all items you are bringing in ( and will not take back out with you ) does not exceed the <URL> . There are special weight/value restrictions on liquor , cigarettes , perfume , and agricultural/livestock/aquatic products ( including medicinal herbs ) , but bagels are none of these things . If you do get called aside for a hand inspection , simply explain to the official that they are pieces of bread you are bringing as a gift , and that should be the end of it .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
So basically , it 'll ultimately depend on the rental company , but there are certainly penalties . It 's also definitely possible , so do n't worry about that . For example , from <URL> : Drivers under 25 must have held their full license for at least 24 months prior to the date of pick up . The minimum age to rent a vehicle is 21 years ( maximum 75 ) . Drivers under 25 , i.e. drivers aged 21,22 , 23 or 24 are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day and drivers 70 or over are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day . All drivers under 25 and over 70 are liable for the first 1,200 Euro of damage to the car ( excess ) . The surcharge is paid when collecting the car and is not included in the quoted price . However , there are a few other terms on that page with regards to where you hold your current license , and whether you 'll need to supply an international driver 's license . But once you 've got that , you should be good to go .
They ca n't go to New Zealand , or anywhere else for that matter , because children ca n't leave Australia without their own passports . From <URL> : All Australian citizens must have a valid passport before leaving Australia and maintain a valid passport while overseas . Under Australian law , children can not be included in an adult 's passport . All children travelling overseas , including newborn infants , must have their own passport . Thanks to the spread of biometric passports , which are strictly for one holder , family passports that include children are pretty much obsolete these days .
Since AMS ( Amsterdam Schiphol ) is in the Netherlands and CDG ( Paris Charles De Gaulle ) is in France , both in the Schengen area , any flight to Ireland , which is not in the Schengen area , will definitely be considered as an international flight . Domestic flights are usually defined as flights within the same country , but flights between two Schengen countries can be considered domestic as well . However , this is not the case for Ireland . Regarding the security check , I believe it depends on the specific airport and from where you are connecting . At CDG I was once allowed to board a flight to the USA connecting from an international flight from Europe at a different terminal without passing through the security check again . At other airports , in a similar situation , I was required to go through security checks .
I assume the numbering of mileposts is to match the numbering of the U.S. Interstates themselves -- west to east interstates , which have even-numbers , are numbered from south to north ( i.e. I-10 runs through southern states , and I-90 runs through northern states ) . Likewise , south to north interstates , which have odd-numbers , are numbered from west to east -- I-5 runs along the west coast , and I-95 runs along the east coast . Note that this is the opposite of the US Highway system -- north to south routes grow larger from east to west . US Highway 1 is on the east coast , and the old US Highway 99 ( which is now no longer a US Highway ) ran along the west coast . Likewise , US Highway 14 runs through several northern states , and US Highway 82 runs across several southern states . I believe the reason the Interstates were numbered opposite of the US Highways was to avoid confusion , i.e. when talking about route 5 along the west coast , you know the person is talking about an Interstate , not a US Highway .
An Algerian national needs to apply for a visa in order to enter the UK , even if they have a French visa and even if they are taking the Eurostar . You will not be able to show the UKVI people your visa at the rail station , or even at the border . On the bright side , the application does n't take three months to process ; it 's more like a week . You can apply online at the <URL> . If you have a clean history and otherwise qualify , you will be able to access the various opportunities to upgrade your application to priority status . That will cost over and above the GBP 83 for the basic application fee . The downside is that since you are in France , you probably do not have all the requisite evidence to hand . It 's something to consider before applying . For your last question : no , the ' spur of the moment ' option is n't available to those travelling on an Algerian passport .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
It depends on the airline . Some airlines require passports and if the only passport you have is South African , then you also need a visa to go with it . However , not all transportation operators between Ireland and the UK require passports for British citizens -- several other forms of ID/documentation can also suffice . There 's a ( non-authoritative , possibly inaccurate ) list <URL> . There should n't be any immigration control on arrival in London , due to the Common Travel Area .
Avoid the use of the word " fanny " , as it is slang for , ah , a woman 's front bits . Be very careful when referring to your fanny pack ! Also , if an attractive member of the opposite sex asks you if you have a " rubber " , double-check to make sure there are n't any chalkboards around because you 're probably being asked for an eraser .
As @MatthewHerbs indicates , there are taxi companies that will take you from the Blaine crossing to the Bellingham airport and probably as far as SeaTac too for quite a price : about $ 50 to BLI , about $ 250 more to SEA . Much to my surprise , it seems this is it : Toronto or Vancouver and that 's it . The main Canadian airports are : Calgary International Airport Edmonton International Airport Halifax Stanfield International Airport Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier International Airport Toronto Pearson International Airport Vancouver International Airport Winnipeg James Armstrong Richardson International Airport For Calgary ( actually , Medicine Hat is an airport closer to the border ) , Winnipeg , Montreal and Ottawa there is practically nothing south of these cities in Canada neither across the border so there 's no public transit . Compare the population density of northern Montana / North Dakota / the Adirondacks to the Windsor / Detroit area . Edmonton and Halifax are far from the border .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
So as you have realised , a visa is required for tourist purposes for citizens of Saudi Arabia visiting South Africa . It depends a little on how thorough you want to be - but basically , the more prepared you are , the better chance you have . For example , the most <URL> include : Passport valid for 6 months beyond date of departure . 2 passport-size photos with signature on reverse side . 1 completed application form ( failure to complete the application fully and in detail may result in visa being delayed or refused ) . Proof of sufficient funds to cover visit . Onward/return ticket and , if in transit , proof of sufficient documentation for admission to the country of destination . Extra ones that <URL> include : No criminal record ( if you have proof of this , it could be useful ) Be of sound body and mind ( hard to prove this though ! ) A plan describing your intent while in South Africa - where you 're staying , what you want to do Evidence of hotels booked , car rentals and the like Contacts in case of emergency in South Africa ( if you have any ) A vaccination certificate Passport valid for no less than 30 days after the expiry of the intended visit . Proof of travel insurance / medical cover Now the problem you have is most sites seem to say it can take 3-10 days to process . Of course as you travel a lot , you 're probably aware that money can usually make these delays go away . Talk nicely to the embassy staff , ask if there 's anything extra they might need , make sure all your documents are nicely organised , ask them about South Africa while talking - see if they 're from there and if they have favourite places ( makes a connection , meaning more chance of them helping you out ) .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
You may leave without an American passport . The United States does not have a government exit procedure , so at airport check-in , you would be showing whichever passport would be more convenient for your country of destination . If you were returning to the UK , for example , your UK passport would be better ( although since US citizens do not need advance visa for UK , not that much better ) . Supposing you were a dual USA-Ruritania citizen and Ruritania requires advance visas for Americans , the advantage of the Ruritanian passport would be obvious . You must , however , use your replacement USA passport when you next come into the United States .
I am operating with an MLC backpack both on plane and at conference and if it 's slightly larger than the locals daypack -- oh well . It would work less well with a rolling carry on of course . eBags Mother Lode Convertible ( I used this before ) , Tortuga , Patagonia etc etc the list is endless of these backpacks . ( I am experimenting with a Magma Control-Backpack XL currently but unless you also want to carry on a 19.5 " monitor , that 's probably not the best choice . ) Another solution is to put the 240gr Bach Itsy Bitsy backpack ( which I also have ) in the carry on ( or checked in ) . The backpack is big enough : even my T420 laptop + sleeve fit in there and provides structure . Your laptop is likely thinner and lighter . Unlike most such collapsible backpacks this is strategically reinforced where necessary so while it 's very low weight you can carry like 4-5 kgs in it without a problem . Probably even more but I did n't dare to test further . Finally , you can just carry your normal laptop backpack ( my choice is the Briggs &amp; Riley Verb Activate but many are good choices , this just happens to be the best :P ) and a small duffel ( there 's no competition here , the Red Oxx XS Aviator is where it is ) as a personal item and check in everything else in a suitcase . I did this before as well .
From spending a year or so in Ireland as a student : Not much is " must buy " - it depends on who you are . I found my greatest " buys " in Ireland were experiences , rather than things . So here 's my list : A ticket to see the Book of Kells at Trinity College in Dublin . For that matter , just wandering Dublin . A ticket to the Guinness Factory Tour . You said no alcohol , but even if you have no intention to drink , it 's worth seeing . Something from the Waterford crystal factory in Waterford - after taking the factory tour ;) Lunch in a random pub . In terms of just merchandise ? The Irish are a sweater people , given their climate , so Irish wool sweaters , scarves , etc. are decent buys . And if you 're a slightly bigger dude , it is the land of the rugby shirt .
A UK entry clearance gives you ' formal ' permission to arrive/depart any time between its start and end dates . The form asked for your travel dates so that they can try to align the visa 's start date so that your time in the UK is maximized . Once the entry clearance has been issued , it 's ok to change your actual travel date . You can arrive at 12:01 AM on the start date of your visa or any time after that over the visa 's life time . Trying to arrive earlier than the start date is not allowed . And remember , you will still have a landing interview , and if your actual dates somehow contradict the premise of your visit , the IO may become worried . Also remember that you signed an agreement to advise the British issuing post of any significant changes in your circumstances . It 's down to you to determine if your change of plans is derived from a reportable event .
end question
start question
Which Cities In Finland ( if any ) Have a Medieval Architecture ?
Are there any current major Finnish cities where the architecture is medieval , or at least " pre modern " ( before the late 1600s ) ? In short , no . Compared to most countries in central and southern Europe , Finland has very few remaining medieval buildings ( or indeed buildings older than 100-200 years , sadly ) . Most buildings back then were wooden ( and primitive ) and have burnt down at some point or another . There are some medieval castles , however . These three are the most notable and best preserved : <URL> , oldest parts of which date from 1200s . Photo : <URL> , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1300s , in Hämeenlinna , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1400s , in Savonlinna , in the historical province of Savonia , Eastern Finland . <URL> ( Åbo in Swedish , which used to be the dominant language during most of its history ) is by far the oldest city in Finland , and besides the castle , there 's <URL> , originally from 13th century ( but largely rebuilt in 1800s ) . But if you go to Turku expecting to see a city centre with lots of historical buildings , you 'd be disappointed . Much of the centre consists of rather ugly buildings from 1960s and 70s ; e.g. . <URL> shows what I mean . To see lots of beautiful old buildings in Finland , even whole neighbourhoods of them , I 'd definitely recommend Helsinki . ( Besides the area around Senate Square , check out Kruununhaka , Katajanokka , Eira , Ullanlinna , Töölö , and Kallio districts . Oh , and the <URL> sea fortress which is awesome in summer . ) But by " old " , I mean mostly 1800s and early 1900s , nothing even close to medieval . Edit : Besides the castles , there are nearly 100 remaining medieval stone churches in Finland . <URL> ( in Finnish , but at least photos and dates are universally understandable ) . Of course , there 's typically just one of these in a town or village . Wikipedia also has a pretty comprehensive <URL> , ranging from 1748 to 1889 , with photos and addresses/coordinates . Edit 2 : <URL> , <URL> , should be mentioned too . It 's a UNESCO world heritage site that a guidebook I have ( The Rough Guide to Finland ) describes thusly : Despite the large number of tourists it attracts , the medieval core of Old Rauma ( Vanha Rauma ) , held within a narrow triangle of land bordered on two sides by the trickling Raumanjoki river , holds enough quiet lanes , paths and alleyways -- a total of six hundred individual buildings across a thirty-hectare area -- to allow you to explore almost undisturbed . ( Oldest buildings date from 18th century , as fires in 1640 and 1682 destroyed the town , so I guess it 's not strictly medieval . Or perhaps the architecture is ? )
Star Alliance does n't have a loyalty program . The individual airlines within the alliance each have their own loyalty programs , and each program has it 's own criteria/promotions/etc . You would need to check with the individual program that you 're a member of to see if they have any such promotions , but at least the few that I 'm aware of do NOT have anything like you 've described .
Are there any current major Finnish cities where the architecture is medieval , or at least " pre modern " ( before the late 1600s ) ? In short , no . Compared to most countries in central and southern Europe , Finland has very few remaining medieval buildings ( or indeed buildings older than 100-200 years , sadly ) . Most buildings back then were wooden ( and primitive ) and have burnt down at some point or another . There are some medieval castles , however . These three are the most notable and best preserved : <URL> , oldest parts of which date from 1200s . Photo : <URL> , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1300s , in Hämeenlinna , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1400s , in Savonlinna , in the historical province of Savonia , Eastern Finland . <URL> ( Åbo in Swedish , which used to be the dominant language during most of its history ) is by far the oldest city in Finland , and besides the castle , there 's <URL> , originally from 13th century ( but largely rebuilt in 1800s ) . But if you go to Turku expecting to see a city centre with lots of historical buildings , you 'd be disappointed . Much of the centre consists of rather ugly buildings from 1960s and 70s ; e.g. . <URL> shows what I mean . To see lots of beautiful old buildings in Finland , even whole neighbourhoods of them , I 'd definitely recommend Helsinki . ( Besides the area around Senate Square , check out Kruununhaka , Katajanokka , Eira , Ullanlinna , Töölö , and Kallio districts . Oh , and the <URL> sea fortress which is awesome in summer . ) But by " old " , I mean mostly 1800s and early 1900s , nothing even close to medieval . Edit : Besides the castles , there are nearly 100 remaining medieval stone churches in Finland . <URL> ( in Finnish , but at least photos and dates are universally understandable ) . Of course , there 's typically just one of these in a town or village . Wikipedia also has a pretty comprehensive <URL> , ranging from 1748 to 1889 , with photos and addresses/coordinates . Edit 2 : <URL> , <URL> , should be mentioned too . It 's a UNESCO world heritage site that a guidebook I have ( The Rough Guide to Finland ) describes thusly : Despite the large number of tourists it attracts , the medieval core of Old Rauma ( Vanha Rauma ) , held within a narrow triangle of land bordered on two sides by the trickling Raumanjoki river , holds enough quiet lanes , paths and alleyways -- a total of six hundred individual buildings across a thirty-hectare area -- to allow you to explore almost undisturbed . ( Oldest buildings date from 18th century , as fires in 1640 and 1682 destroyed the town , so I guess it 's not strictly medieval . Or perhaps the architecture is ? )
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
Many airlines do offer discounted tickets for children between the ages of 2-12 and fares are typically 2/3rds to 3/4ths of a full adult fare . Because the number of tickets is limited and airlines offering such rates on various routes are n't the same , the best advice I can give is to try a search on travel sites like <URL> , <URL> , <URL> et al ( <URL> is a surprising omission because it offers no way of choosing children / senior travellers ) and specify you 're travelling with children . In this particular case , you will be better off search with ' online travel agents ' like Travelocity than ' search engines ' like Kayak , as the former are more likely to offer special deals negotiated with airlines for children .
Shamelessly repeating what has already been said in the comments , I would also suggest Dachau . Another option could be Nürnberg and the <URL> . Both places are a bit far but probably doable in a day ( barely ) . If you want something strictly military , you could try to visit some part of the " ligne Maginot " in France like the <URL> . It 's not too far from Zurich but you will definitely need a car for that . Note that many important events or devastating battles did not leave any landmarks or traces you could see today . The main monuments in Dresden or Darmstadt have been rebuilt in the old style , some other cities like Hannover have been completely reshaped after the destruction but there is nothing in particular that evokes WWII . Switzerland itself did not actively participate in WWII but it did mobilize and still has impressive fortifications that were operational at the time ( most of them built earlier ) .
While sites like Wikitravel do n't seem to help too much in this case , fortunately we can look at anecdotal evidence and quotes on VirtualTourist <URL> like <URL> . Quotes from these pages for a selection of clubs : " Dress Code : No jeans or sneakers/trainers , must be very fashionable . " " Dress Code : No Jeans , shorts , or flip flops !!!! " " Dress Code : Just do n't look like a COPLETE MUPPET !! " ( sic ) " Dress Code : Dress to kill , place is Ultra HIP !!!!! " " Dress Code : Casual Chic , everyone 's an expat or a chuppie ( chinese yuppie ) over here . " " Dress Code : Dress like a rich hobbit . The place here is small and the food/drinks come at a price . " " Dress Code : Trendy and stylish " " Dress Code : I dont know that there is a dress code but we did have proper evening attire on and fit right in . " " Dress Code : Your with the movers and shakers of the Hong Kong world !!!!! Dress to Impress is the word !!!!! " " Dress Code : Cool lounge wear - jeans are fine , flip flops are not noticeable but dress cool " So it sounds like for a lot of them , smart-casual is the plan , and given there 's some suggestion of style and smartening-up , personally I 'd pack town shoes .
Unless you have n't paid the fine and now have a warrant outstanding I would n't worry about it . Traffic offenses are only a concern if you have committed something serious like a vehicular manslaughter or if you basically ignored the summons or mandatory court appearance and now have a warrant issued for your arrest . <URL> but also provides you with the link to the definitinon of crimes for which your <URL> . The list is too big to copy here but the only thing that involves vehicles is in fact manslaughter : Involuntary , where the statute requires proof of recklessness , which is defined as the awareness and conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustified risk which constitutes a gross deviation from the standard that a reasonable person would observe in the situation . A conviction for the statutory offense of vehicular homicide or other involuntary manslaughter that only requires a showing of negligence will not involve moral turpitude even if it appears the defendant in fact acted recklessly
Normally I carry a small bag for the overhead compartment , but I was flying from Heathrow to NYC once and carrying only my baise en ville ... It caused me to get flagged up for further questioning by airline security ( it was a US carrier ) . They were very worried that no baggage was checked and I had no carry on . I was attending a party on short notice and fortunately had the invitation with me . I also explained that I was going to purchase some new clothes in Manhattan anyway ( I explained also that I was born there and knew my way around , plus hotel reservations at the Marquis ) . So they let me go ... After this , my advice if you are travelling ' conspicuously light ' is to have something on hand that demonstrates your itinerary and some plausible explanation for not carrying any change of clothes . I also switched to the Victorinox Altmont handbag after that incident , but this may be a spurious connection .
Not quite sure why would you need a special device . Anveo ( which I use ) or voip.ms and a VoIP app on your smartphone/tablet/laptop ( I am using Zoiper ) will do just fine . A Canadian number costs less than two dollars . I use this setup both inside and outside of Canada and it works .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
There is no formal distinction between visas for tourism or business purposes in the Schengen countries . There 's just a single kind of visa : uniform type C short-stay visas , with a single application process . In the visa application , you have to explain why you 're going , but you wo n't be held responsible for classifying the application into rigid " tourism " and " business " categories . Sure enough there are checkboxes for " purpose of travel " in the standard application form , but that 's just for convenience and ease of processing , so that straightforward tourists or business travelers wo n't have to word an explanation of their own -- not because the answer there selects between different sets of rules . You can always enclose a more detailed free-form explanation to clarify your answer .
Both the <URL> and the <URL> can go faster than 160 km/h , and have done so for short distances in trial runs . <URL> . However , in operation both are capped at a maximum of 160 km/h , and typically average out much slower ( the Sydney-Melbourne XPT barely beats 80 km/h for the trip ) . As for why specifically 160 km/h , it 's a typical cut off worldwide for " <URL> " . Exceeding that is generally considered to require high-stability concrete ties for tracks ( Australia still mostly uses wood ) and no level crossings ( rural Australia has hundreds ) .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
Official requirements for a non-EU citizen to enter Schengen zone ( <URL> ) : He/she is in possession of a valid <URL> or documents authorising them to cross the border ; the acceptance of travel documents for this purpose remains within the domain of the member states ; The travel document must be valid for at least 3 months after the intended date of departure from the Schengen Area ( although in a justified case of emergency this obligation may be waived ) and must have been issued within the previous 10 years The traveller either possesses a valid visa ( if required ) or a valid residence permit ; The traveller can justify the purpose and conditions of the intended stay and has sufficient means of subsistence , both for the duration of the intended stay and for the return to his or her country of origin or transit to a third country into which the traveller is certain to be admitted , or is in a position to acquire such means lawfully ; The Schengen Information System does not contain an alert for refusal of entry concerning the traveller , and The traveller is not considered to be a threat to public policy , internal security , public health or the international relations of any of the Schengen states . However , once you 're inside of Schengen zone : What is the legal rights of foreigners within the Schengen area ? The Schengen Agreement permits individuals who are staying legally within the Schengen territory to travel about inside the territory without border checks . This does not only apply to the citizens of these countries but also to foreigners . Thus , foreigners with a valid residence permit in a Schengen State and carrying valid documents can travel within the territory and do not need any special permission to do so . Note , that even though residency card is generally accepted as photo ID , it is not a travel document , and wo n't be accepted by various airlines . On the other hand non-Schengen EU countries ( for example UK ) may require additional visa .
Skipping a flight you 're checked in for with bags is generally not a great idea . Since your bags ca n't fly without you ( because Terrorism ( tm ) ) , they have to unload your bags , which will almost certainly delay the flight and piss off the baggage handlers . In other words , doing this would usually be a bit of a dick move on your part . However , in this particular case ( as Doc notes ) , you 're flying internationally from Korea to DTW , which means your bags will be unloaded so you can collect them and take them through Customs . So : Nothing happens , you can simply leave during your layover . The airline will mark you as a no-show for that flight . Nobody cares if you do this occasionally , but the airline will eventually twig on if you do this ( say ) every week and might send you a nasty letter , confiscate your frequent flyer miles and/or ban you from flying with them again . and 4 . See above : you 're required to collect your bags at DTW anyway , so all you need to do is not check them back in afterwards .
I 'd suggest taking a look at the website of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau , which has a <URL> . It lists a number of places ( mostly museums , some galleries ) that have late openings . The page is unfortunately organized by place rather than by what your options are on a particular day of the week , but the " fact sheet " for every place does clearly list " late opening " on the " prices and times " section . Here are a few suggestions taken from that page , but organized by day of the week ( non-exhaustive list ) : Monday : Musée Jacquemart-André ( until 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . Tuesday : Jeu de Paume Paris ( until 9pm ) . Wednesday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) . Thursday : Musée des Arts et Métiers ( until 9.30 pm ) , Musée d'Orsay ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Friday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Saturday : Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) , Musée Jacquemart-André ( 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . There 's also the Palais de Tokyo which is open every day , except Tuesday , until midnight ; and the Musée de l'Érotisme is open every day until 2am . Obviously these times can change , so do check the original " fact sheet " . For most places it also lists until what time before closing time the ticket offices stay open , which would be useful to know . ( Thanks for reopening this question ; the above is a slightly extended version of the <URL> ) .
Yes , in Chile most venues will only accept Chilean pesos . It 's different across the border in Argentina though , there you will fare much better with US dollars .
Turkey and Armenia have strained relations for somewhat obvious reasons , but it 's not on the same level as , say , Israel and the Arab world . There have even been faltering moves in the last decade to try to heal the rift and ease towards increased trade , and where these have fallen down , it 's been as much to do with pressure on Turkey from Azerbaijan ( recently at war with Armenia and with an unresolved open conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh ) as direct emnity between Armenia and Turkey . Opposition to rebuilding trade with Turkey on the Armenian side is stronger from the ( influential ) Armenian diaspora than it is within unemployment-ravaged Armenia itself - it 's much easier to say " no compromise " when you 're the other side of the world to where the consequences are felt . For example , <URL> : Turkey has canceled the first ever scheduled Turkish flights to its long-time rival Armenia , days before the first plane was due to take off , officials have said , following fierce opposition from Turkey 's ally and energy partner Azerbaijan . The twice-weekly flights between Turkey 's eastern city of Van and the Armenian capital Yerevan were due to begin on April 3 and , encouraged by a U.S. push for rapprochement , were meant to boost bilateral tourism and trade . It 's possible to book flights from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Russia , usually ) , and buses from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Georgia ) . Of course it 's always possible you might encounter a particularly partisan individual border guard , who might use it as an excuse to make a fuss or try to obtain a bribe , but the airport is generally pretty professional by the standards of the region - when this sort of thing happens , it tends to be on the land border with Georgia . Such ( relatively rare ) situations can usually be resolved by staying calm , avoiding confrontation , and if necessary saying something like " I 'm sorry , I do not understand . May I speak to your supervisor ? " . In extreme cases , I 've heard stories of people turning such situations around with a disparaging comment or vulgar joke about the country that is the source of the anger , but for ethical reasons it 's best not to stoke and legitimatise this kind of nationalism unless you feel genuinely in danger and there 's no obvious alternative . I 've not known anyone feel the need to resort to this travelling into Armenia having travelled in Turkey , and definitely not in the airport - in fact , I think the incident I 'm thinking of , they were travelling into Azerbaijan having travelled in Armenia . The wounds from the Armenian-Azeri war are much fresher and more raw in the Caucasus itself than those between Armenia and Turkey . You wo n't need to do anything like this in the airport in Yerevan .
end question
start question
What is the fastest speed a passenger airplane flies at ?
In history , there have only been two SSTs ( Supersonic transports ) around for passengers - the <URL> and the <URL> . Sadly , neither is available any longer with access to fly on them . So then we look to the two major manufacturers with almost supersonic capabilities . Long considered the fastest passenger plane , the <URL> has several variants , each with slightly different speeds . The fastest of them are the 747-400 , 747-400ER and 747-8L , all of which can cruise at Mach 0.855 ish , and have top speeds of Mach 0.92 . So close ! Then we look at Airbus . Their fastest , we 're looking at the <URL> . Its cruising speed is said to be Mach 0.85 , while its top speed was shown in a demonstration in 2005 to be Mach 0.96 . Even closer ! So with conventional passenger jets , no , we ca n't go faster than the speed of sound , and Mach 0.96 is the theoretical maximum you 'll reach , although it 's unlikely you 'll be on a flight doing that ( they did it with a shallow dive and without passengers/cargo ) . Part of the reason for this is design - the entire design of the plane needs to change if one is to break the sound barrier - the pressure and forces exerted on the aircraft would likely see them break apart . Another is the noise pollution - there 's a very large sonic boom when the Concorde used to break the barrier . HOWEVER , you can ' cheat ' . If you 're in say , a 777 going fast with a massive tail-wind , your effective groundspeed could be faster than it , even though the plane is n't reaching the same pressures . There 's a <URL> .
In August most roads should be open . The condition of any given road can never be guaranteed though . You should consult the website of the <URL> for up to date information about what roads are closed . If you click on the <URL> you 'll see the current state . Most roads are open by now , but its been a cold summer so not quite all of them are open . By the end of August there may be some closures ( most likely due to them being washed out ) but most should remain open . If you are unsure , you can ( while in Iceland ) call 1777 for up-to-date information . Do not try to drive on a closed road . If in doubt , call for information . It is astonishing the number of tourists who ignore road-closed signs and get themselves into serious trouble . You do not need a 4x4 on " normal " roads . If you plan to stay on the primary roads you can get by fine without one . However , you should not go on any roads marked in red on <URL> if you are not driving a 4x4 with good ground clearance . Note that you can drive on regular roads all the way to Vatnajökull , the largest glacier in Europe . Just follow the ring road ( route 1 ) along the southern coast . Ca n't miss it . It is about 4-5 hour drive from Reykjavik , assuming no stops . And there are plenty of interesting places to stop along the way .
I 've been told by friends who have worked with cruise lines that you can always just try calling on the day , or the night before , and can often get an astonishing deal . ( It does n't always work , though . )
So , there are two mechanical solutions to , what is , fundamentally social problem , but before I provide them , I want to make clear that employing these is an easy way to be regarded as a jerk by your fellow passengers , and not without merit ; the seat is designed to recline , and while putting it back can be inconsiderate , restricting the use of the feature by others can be just as inconsiderate on a long flight . Think long and hard about just how much of an asshole you are willing to be before attempting to block the passenger in front of you from taking what small comfort they can in the horrid conditions found in coach class on a commercial airliner . First , the commercial solution : <URL> . A small device that clips onto the arms supporting the tray table , when the clip is in place , the seat in front of you is unable to recline . It can be adjusted to allow for limited recline , if you 're feeling considerate , but the ' courtesy card ' provided by the manufacturer should be pretty clear evidence that this is inherently a pretty inconsiderate product . If , in addition to being a jerk , you 're also a cheapskate , you might want to look into using a <URL> as a shim to prevent the seat in front of you from reclining . Like the Knee Defender , this has the downside of requiring that you keep your tray table down to rescue your precious legroom , and , unlike the Knee Defender , also will take up some space on the tray table , which may or may not bother you . It is similarly inconsiderate to use . Alternately , you could be less of a jerk , and pay the often pretty nominal premium to get a bulkhead facing/exit row seat , where nobody is in front of you to recline .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
In most juristictions that operate with something approaching sanity , someone is liable for accidental damage in the following three cases : They caused the damage deliberately or with " blameworthy carelessness " . They have entered into a contract where they explicitly accept to be responsible for the risk . The law contains an explicit exception for the situation and says they are liable in the situation even without wrongdoing or contract ( " strict liability " ) . For example , in most places the owner of an aircraft is liable for any damage it causes even if the owner did nothing wrong and the one who suffered the damage is not a passenger . In the present question it seems that the only thing that could possibly apply is whether the passenger who reclined his seat would be liable under theory ( 1 ) . It seems to be easy enough to argue that he was being careless , but what a court will have to decide is then whether this carelessness was " blameworthy " ( my word , but different jurisdictions use various legal codewords for essentially this concept ) -- in other words , was or was n't he less careful that one could reasonably expect people in general to be ? I suspect that most courts would come to the conclusion that no , one can not in general expect passengers not to recline their seats when the airline provides a seat that can recline -- and no , one can not in general expect passengers to always ask they guy behind them before they recline , however nice it would be if everyone did that . So it will rule that the guy was not " blameworthily " careless , and ca n't be liable . You could certainly have your day in court trying to convince it otherwise , though , if you find a court with jurisdiction over the passenger .
There is ! But there are n't any signs to tell you ... As explained on the <URL> , the SkyBus ticket office at the airport sells the <URL> . That costs $ 14 , and comes with $ 8 credit ( plus a few other bits ) . There are no signs at the SkyBus ticket office about myki , it is n't listed on any of the prices shown , but if you queue up and ask they 'll get one out of a secret drawer and sell one to you ! Once you 've bought your myki , it 's a moderately well signposted 1 minute walk to where the 901 bus goes from - follow the signs for Public Buses . Alternately , there are in theory some regular myki topup and purchase machines in <URL> , but they 're not well signed and rather hidden . You 're looking for a silver/grey machine with a blue sign on the top . I could n't find the T2 one , the T3 one is on the far left as you go to leave the baggage claim area by the toilets . For topping up a myki it may be worth hunting , though do n't forget you can also top up on the bus ! For visitors , heading to the SkyBus ticket office to buy one is likely to be much quicker and easier
I found a statistic for you that lists the average medical evacuation cost for at least some countries : <URL> As you can see , you have to be prepared for some 10,000 USD .
I guess while pens in theory could be used to cause pain , as could some types of shoes or household keys , and they 're allowed . I assure you , you 'll have zero problem taking an ordinary ballpoint or ink pen ( or pencil ) on a flight - unless you have some weird pen in the shape of a dagger or something :)
From <URL> : Complaints concerning allegations of misconduct/discrimination The U.S. Customs and Border Protection takes allegations of employee misconduct and discrimination very seriously . Allegations of misconduct or discrimination are referred to the CBP Office of Internal Affairs . Personnel are specially trained to investigate and review allegations . If warranted , CBP will take appropriate action against the employee . CBP INFO Center OPA - MS1345 U.S. Customs and Border Protection 1300 Pennsylvania Ave. , N.W. Washington , DC 20229 How to file a complaint ? Please see the complaints section of the customer service page . In addition , " complaints section " is a link , which , after a couple of steps , will lead you to <URL> The behavior may be argued to be discrimination , but it is certainly misconduct . The text message ought to serve as clear evidence of the misconduct , so your cousin 's complaint would likely have a real effect .
In general , you can find information about what items are permitted on the flight on both the website of the airline ( they will have a restricted items page ) and on the website of the relevant athourity who would control things for the country you are flying from . As you do n't give that here , I 'm going to take the information from the <URL> , which under the category " Sporting Goods " says : Bows and crossbows | Hand luggage : No . | Checked Luggage : Yes . with no additional restrictions . So you will probably be OK . If I were you however , I 'd enquire about the legality of possessing and transporting these items in your destination country - archery is a fairly common hobby , so I doubt they are illegal anywhere , but some places may restrict how they are transported and where they can be removed from containers .
The route depends on how far you want to run , if you want to get buses , etc. . Really , it 's just getting the train timetables and matching them all up . Problems The Hainault Loop : The Central Line runs from Ealing Broadway - Hainualt ( via Newbury Park ) and West Ruislip - Epping ( via Woodford ) in regular service . The problem is Hainault to Woodford . You may get a through train , but if you miss a service you will lose 20 minutes waiting for the next one Mill Hill East : This operates a service from Finchley Central . You may get a through train but you might just miss one . Again , 20 minute delay . Kensington Olympia : This operates a limited service from Earl 's Court , but there are NO through trains . ( Cheat : with Kensington Olympia , you may like to get an Overground Train from West Brompton . But you have to either arrive or depart Kensington Olympia by the District line . ) Trains are once every 20 minutes . Connections : You are at Edgware , just having cleared that branch of the Northern Line . Your options are returning back to Zone 1 with the train you were just on , wasting over 30 minutes , or get a bus to Stanmore or run to Canons Park , to pick up the Jubilee Line . You will 40 minutes to get to Zone 1 , but will have cleared an extra 13 stations . This works as Edgware - Stanmore/Canons Park High Barnet - Cockfosters/Oakwood West Ruislip - Ickenham Wimbledon - South Wimbledon Obviously , these work in reverse too . Alternate routes : Coming back from Epping , you have no option but to use the Central Line . Same story with Amersham/Chesham , but with the Metropolitan . So start at Epping and end at Chesham . ( Amersham/Chesham takes 2 hours ! ) Other problems are Heathrow Airport ( Heathrow Express from Paddington ? ) or Richmond ( Just have to come back ) . Running : So many routes it 's hard to list them all . North Ealing - West Acton is the best . Cost : Get a travel card . Only option . Set route ? : No . You will have to change this on the day . ( i.e. There 's a signal failure at Croxley , and the route from Moor Park to Watford is suspended . Your options : 1 ) are to wait at Moor Park , hoping that the service will resume , knowing that every minute you wait exacts a penalty . 2 ) Abort attempt . 3 ) Change route ( go to Uxbridge first ? ) . Go back hoping the station ( s ) are open . At least you will have done extra stations . So changing is the best option . ) Tips Be at Cannon Street before 8pm . Cannon Street closes at 9pm - the train HAS to stop for it to count . So just because you done everything but the District line and are on the last train to Upminster , it wo n't count . ( the last train passes through Cannon Street at around 0047 . ) Cannon Street is also closed on weekends , meaning that you have to do this on a weekday . Once , Steven Karahan ( record holder for only two weeks before being beaten by Geoff Marshall and Neil Blake ) went through Cannon Street at 2056 . Normally the station is open until 2100 . But , due to signal problems earlier that day , Cannon Street closed 5 minutes early , meaning that the time would n't count and he aborted the attempt . So be there early . Do n't get the first train ! I personally recommend start at Epping at around 0545 . This is n't the first train , but it means that you can catch the first Woodford - Hainault service and by 0645 , you have knocked off 1 of the three tricky bits . Epping is also remote and it 's impossible to get to any other railway ( apart from the Epping &amp; Ongar Railay from North Weald to Ongar - just brings you further away ) from Epping , giving most tube challengers no option but to sail back down the Central to at least Leytonstone . Starting there removes that difficulty and the time wo n't start until the doors close at Epping . Amersham and Chesham are annoying . Very . Ever since the Metropolitan Railway opened in the 1860 from Paddington to Farringdon they extended it through Wembley and Harrow . A branch went to Uxbridge , another to Watford , and another to Chesham . There the line went to Amersham ( today 's Metropolitan Line ) . From there the line went through Aylesbury to Quainton Road ( now a museum ) and split into two branches , one to Brill and one to Verney Junction . From there , the Metropolitan railway planned to continue to Oxford ( imagine getting the tube to there ! ) before it was taken over by London Underground . LU had no interest in going to Oxford , so the line past Amersham was scrapped . The whole Metropolitan journey just going Chesham - Chalfont - Amersham - Moor Park - Watford - North Harrow takes over 2 hours ! A massive time sink of 8 stations an hour . At that rate the whole challenge would take 38 hours ( if the trains ran 24 hours ) . Get a good night 's sleep . You will be doing lots of running and spending 18 hours on trains or other public transport - and you thought half an hour to work was bad ! Get the nearest hotel to the start station - get a decent one . Do n't bring luggage unless you want to carry that around the tube - it will slow you down . Get a frien
I think it is perfectly okay to reject housekeeping services at a hotel . I do this all the time . On arrival I set it up that the room is only serviced " on request " that way my things and other stuff does n't get disturbed . And most hotels are generally very happy to comply and appreciate it .
In Australia and New Zealand , AS/NZS 1754 compliant child seats can generally be used without a tether on airplanes . See <URL> from the Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority , which has an example compliance sticker with this note at the end : <URL> The upper anchorage strap is not required to be used onboard aircraft . All child seats sold in Australia and New Zealand are AS/NZS 1754 compliant , but the fly in the ointment is that the new rules were only published in 2013 , and aircraft certification is optional . This means that : No pre-2013 seat will have the sticker , even though " some " of them passed CASA 's tests . Post-2013 seats with the sticker are definitely OK . Not all post-2013 seats will have the sticker . At time of writing , <URL> is ( intentionally ? ) somewhat vague , but implies that they 'll allow any AU/NZ-certified child seat on the plane . And for what it 's worth , top tethers on child seats seem to be a very Aussie/Kiwi thing . In Europe , child seats almost universally use the lower ISOFIX attachments and do n't require a tether at all .
If an Uber driver rating drops below a certain level , the driver is warned and eventually may be deactivated . Drivers see the ratings of passengers and may choose not to accept a ride if the passenger has a low rating .
United ( and many other airlines ) do this frequently for a number of reasons , including situations like yours . The simple answer is that yes , you have a " confirmed " reservation on both flights - but you only have a ticket on one . To understand exactly what they are doing you need to know the difference between a " reservation " and a " ticket " . A reservation is basically your booking record . It 's created when you first select your flights , but before you pay for them . It will include not only the flights that you 're currently booked on , but also things like waitlisted flights , etc. . Once a flight is added to your reservation in a " confirmed " status then basically a spot is reserved for you on that flight . However before you actually use that reservation you need to pay for it . When you do that , a " ticket " is issued , which includes details of the flights you are confirmed on . Historically this was a physical piece of paper , but now days it 's ( almost exclusively ) an electronic e-ticket . If , for example , you make a change to the reservation ( eg , you change to a different flight , or a waitlisted flight become available ) then this change is first done on the reservation , and then your ticket is " re-issued " or " exchanged " which historically was the act of you giving back your old ticket and being given a new one with the new details on it , but today is just a change in a record in a computer . Now , back to your question . What United will have done for you is to add a new flight to your reservation , which would have almost certainly have been in a " confirmed " status , but without removing the flight you 're currently booked ( and ticketed ) on . So at this stage you 're " confirmed " on both flights , but you only have a ticket for one of them . If you manage to make it to your original flight ( as you did ) then the extra segment on your confirmation will be canceled ( sometimes by an agent , sometimes automatically , or sometimes simply because a ticket was never issued for it by the time the flight was ready to leave ) , and it 's as if it never existed . However if you miss your original flight then the United agent will remove the segment you missed from the confirmation , and then re-issue the ticket without that segment , but now with the new Qantas segment . At this point you have a valid ticket for that new flight , so you 're ready to fly ! If you had attempted to view the reservation on the United website after the additional segment was added you would have seen both flights listed , along with a message that your reservation has been modified and that you should contacted United to have your ticket re-issued , which is an indication that your ticket did n't match your reservation ( in this case , as expected ! ) Depend on who you 're talking to this process can be referred to as " double-booked " ( as you have two bookings between the same locations on different flights ) , a " backup booking " , being " protected " on the later flight , or probably any of a dozen other terms . It 's a process I 've been through a lot , most recently last night due to a combination of delayed and overbooked flights !
It seems that the blog entry you linked is outdated ( 2012 ) , as a newer similar <URL> simply does not list the tennis rackets as a prohibited item onboard while it does list the other items . <URL> has the most recent policies , which clearly allows it . Anyway , here is a list of some of the airlines policies regarding tennis racquets , they would have not allowed them if they were not allowed by TSA : Delta : Allowed , check <URL> , under " Fragile , Bulky &amp; Other Items " . United : Allowed ( one item only ) , check the " Tennis " section in the <URL> . JetBlue : : Allowed ( counted as a carry-on piece ) , check the <URL> . American Airlines : : Allowed , check the <URL> . Bear in mind that most ( if not all ) airlines will count it as a carry-on baggage , so if your carry-on allowance is one piece , then the racquet will use that , you will need to pay some $ if you are carrying a bag with you along with it .
Some years ago I was a part of an operating cabin crew in a flight bound to Dubai , it was the time for one of Dubai 's festivals . Anyway , at the time we already started the descend and I was positioned at the back , the crew chief called me and asked me to take a walk around and ask people to sit because many are standing ! the plane was a narrow-bodied McDonnell Douglas . I went to the aisle to check , and they were standing because the fireworks were actually visible at that altitude ( ca n't remember exactly , but it was n't the cruising altitude nor it was very low ) . They were only visible from one side and people in the other side were standing to be able to see it from the other side 's windows ! I spend a few moments enjoying the few until I remembered that I was a crew member . Bottom line , yes they are visible from high altitudes , and if the weather was clear I guess they would be visible from the cruising altitudes as well .
It 's simply a " sniffing " device . You could say it " smells " for molecules of things such as explosives . <URL> <URL> There are a number of different varieties . Some have a throw away " swab " or thing that looks like a " piece of tape " on the end . In that case the swab is used once and thrown away . And the plastic stick is nothing more than a $ 2 plastic stick . Other devices are fixed and can be used more than once . The whole thing is usually just called a " swab " " chemical swab " " explosive swab " or the like . So you might say " they ran the explosive swabber over me at security , " or " they swabbed me with the explosive thingy at security , " or whatever . They might run it over you or maybe both you and your hand bags . It 's completely commonplace . These things are everywhere . I 've had it done say 25 % of the time I 've walked through a security ( whether at airports or elsewhere ) . I 've never had a ( false ! ) positive hit . ( I 'm surprised the OP mentions that it has not happened often to the OP - probably just a coincidence . ) Here 's the TSA explaining it in the USA case ... <URL> Notice it 's generally referred to as " swabbing , " " swabbed " . It looks like ( in the US ) this practice started heavily at airports in about twenty years ago ( 2010ish ) , here 's a video of it being done in a CNN article when the thing was news ... <URL> Note that the " insider " term for the technology seems to be " ETD " . Here 's one of the main manufacturers . You can buy some swabs from them if you want . <URL> Notice that all these systems are just profit centers set up by companies with government lobbying power , to make sales . ( I 'm not saying there is n't coincidentally societal advantage , but that 's the reason the system exists . ) The " ETD " thing works well for them because they get to sell BOTH the expensive device , AND the disposable swabs on an ongoing manner ( it 's like having a government contract for both razors and the blades ! ) A company will budget a certain amount of money , $ 20m , whatever , to use a lobbying company in the US Congress to push through regulations , on some level , so that devices like this have to be bought ; then in practice only a tiny number of companies can jump through the hoops to be suppliers . So as long as they can get return on the lobbying consultancy spend , it 's a winner . Job creation ! Here 's a large French company which is a competitor , Safran <URL> ( Those guys make everything for slaughtering/protecting people from rockets down to the swabs we are discussing . ) PS in answer to one of your literal questions , these things search for molecules , and have absolutely no connection in any way to radiation as such . If you think about it " detecting molecules in the air " is , in a sense , the same as " smelling " ... for that reason these things are indeed called " sniffers " or " explosive sniffers " or similar words in other languages . ( Note that radiation detectors for security points is an entirely and totally different technology . Indeed , it is the current thing that the lobbying consultancies are pushing through , these will soon be everywhere as well . )
It 's true that EU " laws " are not automatically valid , instead , specific countries need to implement them in their local laws . I will focus on the lateness part here ( not luggage and/or injuries ) . Some common rules not always listed include : a ) No refund if some other train with less delay ( than eg . 1h ) was available b ) No refund if you were informed about the delay before bying the ticket c ) Special rules ( or no refund at all ) for discounted tickets like week/month/year pass etc. d ) How/where to get the refund varies greatly e ) Sometimes , refunds are coupons with expiration date f ) For two-way-tickets , the price of one way is used for the calculations Some countries , in alphabetical order ( might add more later ) : Austria More than 1h late , not only regional trains : 25 % refund if these 25 % are at least 4 $ More than 2h late , not only regional trains : 50 % refund if these 50 % are at least 4 $ <URL> France Depending on the company eg . one of these : a ) 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % b ) 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % , 3h 75 % c ) 30min 20 % , 1h 50 % , 2h 100 % Not all trains are eligible , domestic trains can be queried online . <URL> Germany similar to Austria <URL> Italy For trains with mandatory seat reservation : 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % Cancelling the journey and getting a full refund ( for the part not used , if applicable ) is possible too . <URL> Netherlands Depending on the company and the delay reason eg . one of these : a ) 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % c ) 30min 20 % , 1h 50 % , 2h 100 % <URL> Norway 30min 50 % , with some exceptions <URL> Spain Varies depending on route , train and reason . Sweden 1h 50 % <URL> Switzerland 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % , only if the refund is at least 6CHF . <URL> UK 1h late 50 % refund , or 100 % if journey cancelled <URL> About hotel costs etc. if necessary , on many sites it is not mentioned at all , so I would not rely on that . I 've seen something for Austria and Switzerland , but somewhat limited .
end question
start question
How 's the weather for hiking in lower Tibet in May ?
Well the closest decent-sized town to all of this is Lhasa . There is rain there of about 500mm ( 20 inches ) annually , but most of that is in <URL> . As such , for warmer months and to avoid the weather , May is the peak tourist season . <URL> it indicates that in May , the average precipitation is 1.1 inches ( 26mm ) in May . So next to nothing really , you 'd be unlucky to get a lot of rain , if at all during the day . The average temperatures according to that are from a low of 5C to average high of 19C , so potentially even better than you thought ;)
It all depends on the company . In the US it is customary to tip taxi drivers , however some shuttle companies have no tip policies . The difference between the two are that taxi drivers lease their cab from the company they drive for and rely on tips . Shuttle drivers usually get paid by the hour and tips are an added bonus . If this is a private shuttle 20 % is more than enough . 20 % = Great 15 % = Average 10 % = You 're a jerk
I think you are misreading the picture . There is a grate running across the road itself that cars can cross without problems but hoofed animals ( e.g. sheep ) can not . Next to the road there is a gate that can be opened when driving herds . But this gate is never used to close off the road . Generally , in Iceland , a closed gate means no entry . Unless there is a sign stating otherwise , I would n't presume to go through any closed gates .
The document you quote is aimed at those pursuing academic qualifications . <URL> , with some restrictions . From the linked document : You can : take your 30 days study in one go or over a number of shorter periods use the time for recreational courses such as activity courses or arts and crafts courses , eg horse-riding , painting or sailing study toward a qualification if the course is at an accredited institution You ca n't : use any of your 30 days to study English at an institution without accreditation
Golkonda Fort If you 're interested in looking at a fort , then I can suggest you <URL> . It is almost 11 Km from city center , but the distance will of course depend on the area , you 're staying in . The fort had a vault which stored world famous <URL> and <URL> diamonds once . The fort itself is an impressive structure and quite huge , giving you a lot of opportunities to explore around , photograph the place and around . The fort overlooks the city , so you will get vantage poitns for having a look at the city . Hussain Sagar Lake The man made <URL> has a lot of structures and attractions around it . Most notably being the Buddha statue in the middle of the lake . You can enjoy a clear evening around the lake , with sunset presenting beautiful scene . Apart from these , you can check the route and attractions for some heritage walks inside the city , which cover monuments inside the city . The official state tourism department website lists 4 routes . You can check <URL> , to explore more about the route and attractions .
There 's a great view trail at the superfund site ( Pritchard Park ) and Rockaway Beach but really most of the trails do not give a view of Seattle .
As you said , it is meaning that you do n't really need prophylaxis . means in comparison with other parts of India , where the prevalence is n't that high anyway . A lot of my colleagues traveled to medical conferences and other symposia in Delhi and Rajasthan and none of them used any anti-malarials and none of them got sick . I do n't mean to be ignorant , but malaria is pretty treatable now so if something does go wrong , you can always make your trip shorter and seek medical help if you notice any of the symptoms ( do n't be overprotective and hypochondriac , though ) . <URL> will be of no use once you get there since you have to start taking it a few days before your trip . It 's also expensive and you have to take it each and every day . There is a dosage for children but since I 'm not an expert in that filed , you should ask a tropical diseases professional about that . Depending on how long you are intending to stay in India , I believe you should n't take any drugs if your trip is shorter than a month . There really is no need . And if it is longer , then start taking medication before the trip and buy the rest of the pills once you get to your destination . Read my answer on that subject <URL> . You and your son will be exposed to the same conditions so if one of you is taking meds , the other should as well . Reid also posted some links as a comment so read those questions/answers as well .
California , USA is one place where you see these posted rates . I believe this is to comply with <URL> : ( a ) Every keeper of a hotel , inn , boardinghouse or lodginghouse , shall post in a conspicuous place in the office or public room , and in every bedroom of said hotel , boardinghouse , inn , or lodginghouse , a printed copy of this section , and a statement of rate or range of rates by the day for lodging . ( b ) No charge or sum shall be collected or received for any greater sum than is specified in subdivision ( a ) . For any violation of this subdivision , the offender shall forfeit to the injured party one hundred dollars ( $ 100 ) or three times the amount of the sum charged in excess of what he is entitled to , whichever is greater . There shall be no forfeiture under this subdivision unless notice be given of the overcharge to such keeper within 30 days after payment of such charges and such keeper shall fail or refuse to make proper adjustment of such overcharge . I assume the intention was to prevent things like price gouging for distressed travelers , special events , or customers the management sees as undesirable ( e.g. racism ) . However , as you point out , hotels often set this rate very high , so that they can charge high rates when they want , and claim everyone else is getting a discount . Given this , I 'm not sure why they stop at prices that are 3-5 times the actual rates ; why not post a rate of a million dollars per night , and have complete freedom ? There may be some additional regulations that I do n't know about .
Update : Even <URL> against travel , so the size of any impact is likely to be pretty modest : The Committee found no public health justification for restrictions on travel or trade to prevent the spread of Zika virus . At present , the most important protective measures are the control of mosquito populations and the prevention of mosquito bites in at-risk individuals , especially pregnant women . tldr It 's very unpredictable and could go either way - probably a little bit of both . Based on my experience of such things , it 'll fluctuate as the supply and demand fluctuate . It 's likely to go down , then up , then down but not as much as it went up - but the amounts , or amounts of time taken in each phase , could be barely noticeable , could be dramatic , and will almost certainly vary between airlines . Here 's a typical pattern : I 'd expect prices to drop initially for some airlines , as demand drops but supply ( number of planes , number of seats ) stays constant . How much depends on how steeply demand drops and how quickly airlines respond by adjusting supply - it might be very small , or it might be sharp , and it 'll probably vary by airline . For example , during the Arab Spring , many airlines barely adjusted prices at all ( I believe they just swapped in smaller planes and/or reduced schedules ) , but some had big discounts or flight sales ( I got a very carefully timed very cheap trip to Egypt in with BMI who slashed prices to the middle east by about half ) This may be followed by an increase in prices , as supply reduces to match lower demand , and prices adjust to the fact the new market includes fewer noncommittal price-sensitive customers and more customers who need to travel . This happened in quite a big way with Ebola - most airlines pulled out , and the few who remained had a captive market . It 's not uncommon for there to then be another adjustment downwards , as other companies spot an opportunity to undercut this expensive market and still make a comfortable profit . Royal Air Maroc did a strong trade heavily undercutting the other airlines flying into Ebola countries , for example - but were constantly adjusting the number of flights per week to ensure their planes were mostly full and their tight margins were n't exceeded , which can be inconvenient if your flight date is moved at the last minute . However , these examples are extreme cases . It 's quite likely zika will have a much smaller impact than Ebola or the Arab Spring .
Well the closest decent-sized town to all of this is Lhasa . There is rain there of about 500mm ( 20 inches ) annually , but most of that is in <URL> . As such , for warmer months and to avoid the weather , May is the peak tourist season . <URL> it indicates that in May , the average precipitation is 1.1 inches ( 26mm ) in May . So next to nothing really , you 'd be unlucky to get a lot of rain , if at all during the day . The average temperatures according to that are from a low of 5C to average high of 19C , so potentially even better than you thought ;)
A lot of what you need you can just get in the grocery store - rice , pasta , dried potatoes ( either mashed or slices for " au gratin ) , sausage like pepperoni and salami that specifically does n't need refrigeration , dried fruit and nuts , instant hot cereal ( oatmeal , cream of wheat etc ) , dried legumes ( especially lentils which do n't need soaking ) jam , honey , and peanut butter will take care of a lot of your needs . You 'll want to put things into different packaging so they can survive in your pack and so that you 're taking the right amount for the length of the trip . My favourite camping breakfast is instant oatmeal . Add extra raisins , brown sugar , or other dried fruits if you like . Boil water in the morning and you have coffee and oatmeal and you are set for a pretty physical day . ( Bring a whisperweight stove that uses butane or liquid fuel - fires are far too slow for morning purposes . ) Beef jerky ( made at home if you have a dehydrator , or bought in the store if you do n't ) along with dried fruit and nuts will meet any snack needs through the day . If you must have lunch , you can use bagels or English muffins ( on week + trips I <URL> english muffins , your trip is short so just bring a few packages ) with cheese ( the " light " cheeses keep better , and buy several small ones so they stay sealed longer than one big one ) , sausage ( the no-refrigeration needed ones ) , peanut butter , jam , or honey . If one of your days features a big climb to a gorgeous lookout and you know you 'll want a rest , packages of soup mix from the grocery store can make a 30 minute stop into a delightful lunch . Again the whisperlight stove and some locally-sourced water . Dinner the first night can be meat you took from your freezer that morning , wrapped in plastic and several layers of newspaper . I 've done it and when we unrwap it , it 's not just cold , it still has ice crystals in the middle . Fry it , and cook some fresh veg with it as you would at home . The second night try <URL> using that no-refrigeration pepperoni , some cheese , and maybe some onions and any other veg you 've brought . The third night , something vegetarian built around lentils and rice - we love kusherie - or beans in a sauce , like meatless spicy chili with dumplings . You can also dry hamburger meat ( cooked ) in your oven at home and use that as the meat in spaghetti sauce or shepherds pie filling . Set the hot pan of cooked sauce aside with a towel around it while you cook the starch - it will stay plenty warm and you only need the one little stove . These need you to bring canned or dried veg , I choose dried for the weight and rehydrate them right in the sauce or stew . Bottom line is this is way easier than you think . Have a great time !
Pools in Japan are usually divided in two sections : lanes running the length of the pool for " serious " swimmers , and a general section for everybody else ( including children etc ) . In the " serious " lanes , all you 're allowed to do is swim up and down the lane at the same speed as others in that lane , which are typically physically marked with lane ropes . Here 's what the Olympic 50m pool looks like at the <URL> : ( publicity photo courtesy TMG ) In the " free for all " section ( which for the TMG means the entire 25m pool ) you can do anything you like , but you 're unlikely to have much luck doing laps the width of the pool because of school lessons , teenagers horsing around , random pensioners doing their exercises , etc. . As a sidenote , beware that Japanese pools tend to have a pretty strictly enforced " dress code " : this usually means mandatory swimming cap ( men &amp; women , long &amp; short hair , does n't matter ) , " Speedo " - style swimsuits for men ( no shorts ) , and no visible tattoos .
Have you tried <URL> . <URL> but not even in the range of <URL> or <URL> . You can also see the virtual tour of the tower and the views on their website as well . <URL> though pretty gruesome .
Given that both Portugal and Austria are part of the EU the flight you 're taking is actually " domestic " rather then international , so there is no requirement to have a valid passport since you 're not crossing any borders either outbound or inbound . To be more specific according to <URL> you can enter Austria on an expired passport if it 's expired within the last 5 years . With the exemption of : Passport Exemptions : Holders of a National ID Card issued to nationals of Austria .
I could not find a centralised list of all community shelters in Quebec . However , I could list some organisations that manage shelters and list some of those along <URL> , from Mont-Tremblant to the reserve Mastigouche . I list them in the order West-East . For each shelter , I try to list the following : | [ name ] | [ capacity ] | [ price per night per person ] | [ location ( optional ) ] | [ access from previous shelter ] | [ opening period ] | Sepaq The <URL> manages many provincial parks ( called national parks ) and the Trans-Canada trail crosses them in multiple places . The Sepaq operates shelters all over Quebec in its parks of Fjord-du-Saguenay , Gaspésie , Grands-Jardins , Mont-Mégantic , Mont-Orford , Mont-Tremblant , Monts-Valin and Yamaska . in Mont-Tremblant national park | Lac-Ernie | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac Monroe Park center : ~ 13km | open May-March | | Lac-des-Sables | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-Ernie : 9.5 km | open May-March | | Le Lariou | 2 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-des-Sables : ~ 10km | open May-March | | Le Geai-Bleu | 4 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Le Lariou : ~ 5km , from La Pimbinia Park - entrance : few km | open May-March | This is an alternative way to link Mont-Tremblant and St-Donnat , the Trans-Canada trail follows the Intercentre trail ( see below ) . Intercentre The <URL> links Lac-Laurier and St-Donat , and is a part of the trans-Canada trail . | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 14 ' 10 " , W 74 ° 23 ' 55.2 " | <URL> ( north of Lac-Supérieur ) | open year-round | | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 15 ' 57.2 " , W 74 ° 21 ' 14.8 " | <URL> - open year-round | From the chemin Regimbald , it is possible to reach highway 329 and from there follow the chemin Wall to continue on the Mont-Ouareau trail . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) The <URL> manages two shelters , both along the Trans-Canada trail , one in the area of Mont-Ouareau : | <URL> | 12 people | 10-15 $ | near Lac Lemieux | <URL> | open year-round | The Trans-Canada trail is discontinued along the highway 125 , it starts farther on the Massif trail in the regional park of the Ouareau forest . Parc Régional de la Forêt Ouareau I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . They all appear on the <URL> | Pelletier | 8 people | 30,25 $ | near Lac à Pelletier - ~ 3km from hwy 125 , near Notre-Dame de la Merci | | Prud ' homme | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 2.5 km from Pelletier shelter | | La Loutre | 2 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Corbeau | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Toussaint | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 16.5 km from Prud ' homme shelter | | des Capucines | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 4km from Toussaint shelter | Then the trail continues without any shelter ( but some lean-to ) on the <URL> and the Swaggin trails . Parcs Régionaux Matawinie - Sentier National I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . | Swaggin | 20 people | 25 $ | the previous shelter on the trans-Canada trail is on the Massif trail , 38km away ( refuge des Capucines ) | | Lavigne | 8 people | 25 $ | <URL> | | Lac Boule | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac de la Boule - <URL> | | Bazinet | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac des Iles - <URL> | The trans-Canada trail continues on several successive trails ( Ours , Matawinie , Nymphes , Mistikush ) without any appareent shelter on the way ( see the <URL> ) . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) A second shelter managed by the FQMarche is at the end of Mistikush trail : | <URL> | 6 people | 10-15 $ | near Morin Creek , <URL> , <URL> | open in summer ( May 17 to Sep 1st ) | Then the Trans-Canada trail arrives in the <URL> , with no shelter open to single-person reservation . This list of shelters along the Trans-Canada trail in Quebec is definitely incomplete as the trail is particularly long ( 1100km ) but I hope to enrich it with time . SIA-IAT ( International Appalachian Trail ) The <URL> group manages a set of shelters , not along the trans-Canada trail but still worth noting . They publish <URL> . I do not list them as they are not along the Trans-Canada trail but along the Quebec section of the International Appalachian Trail .
As of now , there 's no cash back service in the UAE . There are talks about this every now and then in the GCC region , but so far it 's not implemented .
Well it turns out that <URL> . It lists details of 14 beaches in the area . Each entry begins with " Beach Fees " . The following beaches are free , as in you do n't need a beach tag : North Wildwood Beach Sea Isle City Beach ( Wednesdays only ) Upper Township Beach Wildwood Beach Wildwood Crest Beach
Actually it 's not a tax , it 's a regular service fee . The information you are requesting can be found on the company website ( in Spanish ) : <URL> The service charge is 3 CUC ( + - 3 USD ) per day The minimal duration of a contract is 3 days You need to pay all the daily fees in advance for the period you will be using the line . Phone calls are paid independently You also need to add funds to your account for a minimum of 10 CUC ( + - 10 USD ) No internet service ( there is data roaming if you bring a phone from another country , but this is VERY expensive ) Additionally , there are wifi hotspots in most hotels and <URL> , there is an access fee of 2 CUC per hour that should be paid in advance .
Late March can be pretty cool in Budapest , I mean less chance for 20 degrees ( Celsius ) and more for 10 ! Prepare for possible rain and wind also . Nights will be between 0 and 5 degrees , so take a warm sweater and a waterproof jacket with you . Enjoy Budapest anyway !
For Flying Blue you will earn level miles and award miles , and the flight will count as a qualifying flight , but only if your flight is not booked into the Z , Q or G booking codes . <URL> The usual exceptions apply . As a frequent flier , your usual SkyPriority benefits will apply on China Eastern , provided your Air France or Aeroflot number is in the booking . [ Note , that you will probably earn more miles if you book the flight under an AF or KL codeshare , as this will accrue at the AF or KL rate not at the MU rate . ]
end question
start question
What 's a good location to stargaze in Auckland ?
For incoming items ( including most of the major meteor streams ) coming from the North to Easterly direction , and not too bad for West of North as well ( not so good for from the South ) East the utterly marvellous location to beat most others is Glover park above the cliffs to the East of St Heliers Bay . You may be able to drive up Waitara Rd and Park - but large numbers of other cars may wish to dance with you , and a short walk from nearby is often wise . You can walk up the road , but a wander through Glover Park in the dark adds to the mystique . You get to look into an almost completely dark horizon . Some lights on Waiheke . A lighthouse sweep bright but far off on Tiritiri Matangi . Great barrier &amp; Coromandel maybe a few dim gleams . Rangitoto dark . I 've viewed the Perseids there and some others there . For meteor streams that come from a radiant and then appear to travel in all directions from it you want as dark a sky as possible over as much of the ' Welkin ' as you can find . This location qualifies as you are on the coastal edge of the city with almost zero immediate civilisation and nothing very makor this side of South America . Access : You can come from Greenland and follow your GPS/Google-maps nose - Remuera Rd , St Johns Rd , St Heliers Bay Rd , ... OR Go along the waterfront - a nice drive even at 3am - to St Heliers and follow Glover Road up from the far end of the bay . If you want a guide / add on and there is a major shower happening , let me know ... :-) . <URL> The reason it is so good can be seen in the larger scale map below . East Coast Bays almost certainly offer some good spots . Kennedy Park above Castor Bay is probably excellent . Shakespeare Regional Park at the end of Whangaparaoa is also probably excellent - but I do n't know what their rules are for night time visiting . And Fletcher 's Bay at the far tip of the Coromandel Peninsular is a special place . It will take you a day to drive there , the final road in is still gravelled and the drop offs are frightening . Dark as dark it will be . And ( over 40 years ago ) that 's where I met my wife :-) . <URL> Star gazing sites : chx 's top NZ sites list is interesting . All but one are in the South Island . I do n't know why Ngongotaha should be better than any number of other NI locations , but , having had it noted , I 'll have to find out why . The point about Glover Park is not it 's " ordinary " stars alone but how good it is for a wide dark view for meteorites . I was utterly stunned by it the first time I visited . After driving through the very well lit city , which I was well used to , to come on this sudden vast Oasis of darkness is amazing . Good for random meteorites and satellites at any time . Concern was expressed re low angle viewing of the " Lyrids " this week . If I 'd known that this was what it was about the answer could have accommodated it . ( Lyrids viewing information here ] ( <URL> As will be seen - information is given starting at 5 degrees above the horizon and then rising to 20 degrees + over the next 4 hours . The map below shows distance from site in 5km steps . The table shows height an obstacle would need to be to block a 5 degree view . Rangitoto , 5 km away manages about 260 m when 434m is needed and nothing else comes closer . A much better site would be hard to imagine . Draggable whole of New Zealand topographical map centred on Rangitoto <URL> Index <URL>
I 've found reviews at Trip Advisor and , especially , Booking.com to be reliable . You can get mobile apps for both . The idea of sticking to one chain is also reasonable , but it might be difficult in some of the less populated areas . Off topic , on that route I recommend making a detour to as many National Parks of the Southwest as possible .
I imagine it would depend almost entirely on the wording in the PDS . If the insurer uses a term like " war zone " they should be defining it somewhere . Otherwise , contact them for clarification on the specific regions you 're travelling too . That said , none of the insurers I 've looked at use the term . They only talk about harm caused by war or military activities , often in very similar terms : <URL> We will not pay under any circumstance if [ ... ] your claim arises from any act of war , whether war is declared or not or from any rebellion , revolution , insurrection or taking of power by the military . <URL> We will not pay for [ ... ] a loss that arises from any act of war ( whether war is declared or not ) or from any rebellion , revolution , insurrection or taking of power by the military . <URL> We will not cover any loss or damage as a result of , or caused by [ ... ] war or warlike activities , invasion , acts of foreign enemies , civil war , revolution , insurrection or act of a military power Assuming I 'm interpreting these correctly , they would still cover you in regions with conflict , so long as your loss/injury/etc was n't caused by the conflict itself . You really need to check these details with the insurer themselves though . It does n't matter what I , <URL> or <URL> think , only what you get in writing from your insurance provider .
The city bus to Corcovado railway station ( Cosme Velho street ) stops at the lower station of cable car . <URL> . The cable car is one option . AFAIK , price is R$ 43 per adult , which is around 21 USD . There is also a road to the top , but city buses do n't go there . At the station you can usually also find people that will offer you ride with their minibuses . The price is comparable to cable car . It may be cheaper if you are in larger group , so you can hire whole car .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
The other answers provide a bunch of handy tips for weeding out the absolute worst excuses for sushi , but little help for distinguishing the mediocre from the sublime . How , exactly , are you going to find out about " freshness " before you try it ? No , there 's only one rock-solid reliable indicator of excellent sushi : the opinion of the local Japanese expat community . No matter where you go in the world , there will be Japanese expats there and restaurants that cater to them , in two categories . Category one is for the expense-account salarymen set , who will pay whatever it takes for good sushi ; and category two is for the working holiday/married to local/university student/starving artist set , who occasionally want good sushi but are not willing to pay their monthly rent for a meal . Needless to say , the bang for buck is much better in category two : for example , the expense account set in Singapore liked a joint called <URL> , where dinner starts at S$ 165 + + , whereas students used to frequent a ( now closed , alas ) place tucked on the top floor of the Central shopping mall which did entirely respectable sushi sets for S$ 10 . Stupendous sushi at <URL> in Hampton , an obscure suburb of Melbourne , where the vast majority of " Japanese " food is dire . You will never , ever find this place unless you live next door , or ask a Japanese expat . The hard part is finding out these out , especially if you do n't know any local Japanese residents and do n't speak Japanese . As a rule of thumb , though , there will be always be a web forum that serves the local Japanese community : in Singapore , it 's <URL> , in Jakarta it 's <URL> , in Melbourne it 's <URL> , etc. . Then search for eg . 寿司 ( " sushi " ) or 美味しいお寿司屋さん ( " tasty sushi restaurant " ) , run the results through Google Translate , and you 'll find the best sushi in the place , guaranteed .
To add to Josh B 's answer - Wan Chai Computer Centre . Wan Chai MTR Station , Exit A4 on to the pedestrian bridge , there will be escalators when you hit the main road to let you get down to street level . It is right next to a McDonalds ( you can see that sign from the bridge ) . Less busy than the rest , good range . Mong Kok Computer Centre . Mong Kok MTR Station [ ( not Mong Kok East ) , exit E2 ( Bank Centre ) , walk straight across Sai Yeung Choi Street , then the next one and it will be on your right . There 's usually a newspaper/magazine stand in front . That area is busy during all the waking hours though , especially on the weekends ( mosh pit style crowds , minus the moshing of course ) , so you may want to try on a weekday . Hours are roughly 10-11am ish , until 6-7pm . Sham Shui Po Golden Computer Centre . Sham Shui Po MTR Station , follow the signs in the station . This one is a bit more out of the way and less touristy . Golden Computer Centre has two levels ; the ground floor sells mostly games , consoles and accessories ; the basement sells mainly computer accessories ( keyboards , mice , cables , adapters , phone chargers etc. ) . There 's also the Apliu Street markets , which sell all things electronic , like LED lights , torches , 2nd hand phones , power adapters , batteries . Finally , there 's your standard electrical chains in most shopping centres and strips which should also have what you want , probably a bit more expensive though . The main ones are Fortress and Broadway . If in doubt , you can always try Mong Kok , Sai Yeung Choi Street ( Mong Kok Station , Exit E2 ) - these stores have practically every second shopfront on that strip . That 's also a big tourist area , so the language barrier may be a bit easier . One last thing - all the best to you for remembering which place has what at what price . There 's nothing dodgy going on ( well , not that I found ) , but it is a crazy mind game trying to remember where each store is , especially when they all pretty much look the same , and the centres are n't exactly laid out in the most logical manner .
Yes , it is . The relevant law/regulation is cited in my answer to <URL> ( that question was about someone who does not need a short-stay visa but the answer also applies to your situation ) . Unfortunately , it 's easier to benefit from that if you do n't need a short-stay visa because you might need to go back to China or some other place where you have the right to reside and wait for the visa there . Worse , not having a stable job or life in China ( if that 's your case ) would work against your application . I do n't think you can generally apply for a short-stay Spanish visa in Spain ( or , actually , from any Schengen country as you typically need to prove you are a resident in the district covered by the consulate to which you apply and if you are already a resident in the Schengen area , you do n't need a short-stay visa ) . So the 90-day limit is not a problem but getting a visa might be , for unrelated reasons .
What the law says In California , as in most jurisdictions , exceeding any posted speed limit is considered speeding . You can be ticketed for going 1 MPH above , <URL> . You can also be cited for speeding if you are driving faster than a <URL> , even if it 's slower than the posted speed limit . In practice It 's all about staying " street smart " . Exceeding the posted speed limit is extremely common on California freeways , even in the right lane . In fact , driving at the posted limit slower than the flow of traffic is likely to be unsafe . If you drive no faster than the surrounding traffic , and you stay alert and slow down for the Highway Patrol , you are unlikely to get ticketed . Everyone follows the same reasoning , counting on " safety in numbers " . If you are the first car in a pack or the fastest car on a wide-open road , you are definitely at risk for a speeding citation . That said , if you do get cited for speeding , " going with the flow of traffic " is a defense that is not likely to work in court . None of what I said above constitutes legal advice .
I looked through our database at <URL> where we 're working to aggregate all the world 's bus providers and routes . We 're sure we do n't know about everything yet , but we 've found a lot of routes . There are several long routes in South and North America based on driving distance measured on google maps . Here are the top contenders for long same-bus trips with no transfers . South America : There are a few documentaries and tv reports about the long direct routes on <URL> where you can see the same coach goes all the way through . 5582 km : Lima , Peru to Buenos Aires , Argentina ( Ormeño ) - Via Santiago , Chile . 5573 km : Lima , Peru to Sao Paulo , Brazil ( Ormeño ) - Via Rio Branco , Acre , Brazil . North America : 4644 km / 85 hours : Los Angles , California , USA to San Salvador , El Salvador ( Usa Tours ) - Once a week via Tijuana , Guadalajara , and Guatemala City . 4607 km / 65 hours : <URL> - via Kansas , Pittsburg and Philadelphia . Impressively , Greyhound runs two of these a day . 3538 km : Saint Paul , Minnesota , USA to Morelia , Michoacán , Mexico ( Transportes Chayo ) . 3435 km / 52 hours : <URL> - All passengers are required to get off the bus for cleaning in Sudbury and Winnipeg amongst other places . 3254 km / 44 hours : <URL> - There are several other buses from Chicago to Mexico but this is the most frequent , at least daily , and the longest we 're sure is a direct bus . Europe : 3631 km : Braunschweig , Germany to Grozny , Chechnya , Russia ( KVN ) - The route is currently a bit longer than normal since it 's detouring around the entire eastern Ukraine through Belarus . 3558 km : Burgas , Bulgaria to Liverpool , England , United Kingdom ( Sofia Bus ) - Via Maribor , Stuttgart , Mannheim , Paris , London , Manchester . Africa 1868 km : Johannesburg , South Africa to Lilongwe , Malawi ( Intercape )
Chesterfield appears not to have much in the way of car rental agencies . That aside , here 's a comparison of various towns dotted outside the Peak District : Since it looks like a car rental agency can always be found within 10 minutes of walking or public transport from the train station , Derby looks to be the winner as it 's both easily reached by train and less than an hour 's drive from the centre of the Peak District . I 'm open to running numbers on other locations if suggested . These are just culled from scouting around the surrounds of the Peak District on Google Maps .
Oh this is mine . Firstly , you 'll want the flight path . This is <URL> , provided they stick to it . <URL> . This is correct . I 'll now explain why . As you can see from the map , you fly over water a bit , down the coast . The only visible land is to your left . So initially , you definitely want the left . Then you 'll cross over part of the Taranaki coast out by New Plymouth . If you 're lucky , you 'll have a clear view of Mt Taranaki / Egmont . If it passes slightly more inland , to your LEFT again , you may have a view of volcanoes Ruapehu ( erupted in 1997 ) Ngauruhoe and Tongariro . You may recognise Mt Doom from Lord of the Rings ;) Further south you may get a glimpse of Wellington , before crossing Cook Strait and seeing the beautiful Marlborough Sounds , or if slightly further west - Golden Bay and Farewell Spit . Then the best part starts - the South Island and the imposing Southern Alps . There 's some snow at all times of the year , but it does n't matter when - they 're stunning to see and fly over . You 'll also get to see the amazing lakes - Tekapo , Pukaki , Hawea and Wanaka , and finally Wakatipu - the lake alongside the alpine city of Queenstown . With the Remarkables range in the background , this setting is spectacular , and initially the left side is best , although the plane will then turn in towards the airport . And then you 'll have the final approach . One of the most amazing approaches you 'll ever do by air - flying between the mountains ( with no radar , btw ) and down to the little airport , 10 min outside of Queenstown . At this point LEFT or RIGHT is fine - it 's spectacular both ways , and the plane usually circles once before going in . Finally , touchdown ! Welcome to Queenstown . Do n't forget to Bungy jump ;) EDIT And naturally , flying back up to Auckland , you 'll want to sit on the right hand side for this scenery . However for the South Island part , either side is spectacular - it 's just the North Island that the left pretty much just looks over ocean ...
The intuition you need is something like this -- an understanding of the economic prosperity of typical travellers in the cities involved in your routing , an understanding of the " politics " of the carriers involved ( beyond simple economics ) , and a basic grasp of the mechanics of airline pricing . They are not totally separate but let us look at some examples . Economic prosperity . Stopping in London is expensive . Typical example , you wish to fly from New York to Copenhagen . Let 's say you need no flexibility , you are doing a return trip , you can stay a Saturday night , you can give one month 's notice , and you are willing to tolerate economy class : you want the deep discount fare . Right now BA/AA/and their partners will sell you a return trip for 692 USD in early September . This is actually a flight via London . You want to visit London ( hypothetically ) . How much can it be to stop there ? [ By a " stop " I mean a stop of over 24 hours . Unless otherwise specified if the time between flights is less than 24 hours on an international ticket , the flights are considered connecting and stopover restrictions do not apply . ] Investigating the fare rules reveals it is a throughfare on NYC-CPH ; that is to say , the outbound part of the pricing unit is not composed of two separate fares . Can this fare cover us if we make a stopover ( > 24 hours ) in London ? No . Category 8 ( Stopovers ) says -- No , so we will have to reprice everything . Repricing with a single 26 hour stop in London and the cheapest price ( covering almost exactly the same flights ) is now 1445 USD . Why ? Travellers between London and New York have a high willingness to pay . You know the sheer quantity of business transacted between those two cities means there are many weekly commuters on those flights . Travellers on New York to Copenhagen are a completely different market . The prices reflect the market , not the route . And the fares are carefully calibrated by people using large computational models to try to separate the two markets so they can be separately priced . If you want a free stop in London on a BA fare that happens to pass through LON , forget it . This is British Airway 's base and the city is stuffed full of people willing to pay a lot of money to travel on their planes . BA will protect the margin carefully . This also applies to their sister company Iberia and their oneworld joint venture partners American Airlines and Finnair . Stopping in Reykjavik is cheap . As an alternative suppose you decided to fly Air Icelandic from Anchorage to London via Reykjavik . Reykjavik is not a major centre of commerce and there is little marginal revenue for Air Icelandic to protect from spoilage . Therefore stopovers are free on the fares sold by Air Icelandic , although the tax/fee and availability computation may affect the final price . Indeed Reykjavik is an inconvenient place to stop for most travellers so the airline tries to sweeten the deal with flexibility on the stopovers . You can see that begins to shine through in the fare restrictions : [ REK is the city code for Reykjavik covering both airports there , as NYC is for New York or LON is for London . FI is the airline code for Air Icelandic . ] But then why are " poor " cities so expensive ? Some far flung cities seem like they are massively overpriced : how could the average local resident of this place * afford the prices from there to London ? But then you look at the profile of the customers on the flight : NGOs , western charities , oil company representatives , adventure tourists . Some places do n't attract the kind of demand required to bring the prices down . * ( I do n't want to insult anyone so let 's leave the city blank . ) Airline " politics " ( or political economics ) Emirates wants you to visit Dubai . Let 's look at another example : Madrid to Osaka via Dubai on Emirates . Same circumstances/dates as before . Cheapest fare in September is presently 729 Euros return . Can we do a stopover without repricing the fare ? Yes . Actually because the airport fees are recalculated on a stopover it adds about 40 EUR to the final price . ( Why are there eight permitted when the route could not possibly support that many ? Well the fare rules are generated by macros to cover many scenarios . ) But Dubai is an increasingly important commercial centre , it is no longer a desert backwater with a runway . Why is EK willing to allow stopovers here , for free , below the market price ? I believe EK thinks that the more people spend time in Dubai , the more business will be attracted to the city and their future prospects will grow accordingly . Alternatively the Dubai Emirate may sponsor it . But it is only a guess . Qatar keeps tight control of policy Let us look at one of their major competitors , Qatar , who do a similar route under similar circumstances : MAD-DOH-KIX and back , 709 EUR without the stop . Taking the stop adds about 100 EUR . So not enormous but you can see , it is n't free . Now I know from a friend at Qatar Airways that the
Is it busy ? That 's generally a positive sign . Do the customers look like locals ? Also a good sign , means they know of others but are still willing to come here . What does the crowd look like ? You can use their clothes , manner etc to hazard a guess at their background and what they may be willing to spend on - and use that to compare with what you want . Is there a price board out front with ' discounts for tourists ' or some nonsense ? Likely mass-produced for the tourist market - not necessarily bad , but it 's not likely to be a local meal . Is it on the main tourist street ? Go one block off there , you 've got a better chance of value for money .
We stayed in a kibbutz at Ein Gedi which was nice . I liked that we avoided the big ' glitzy ' hotels on the dead sea and while it was n't luxurious it was very comfortable . Plus , it was interesting to learn more about kibbutz life which is a big part of the culture in Israel and we were close to the Ein Gedi spa where we took a dip in the dead sea . We stayed two nights , arriving the first afternoon from Petra and had enough time to go to the dead sea before dinner . Then we spent half of the next day hiking up to a nearby waterfall and the other half back at the spa . The next morning we headed back toward Jerusalem .
While growing up I had to turn on the heater before taking a shower and sometimes when its getting late , you really do n't have time to do that . Here 's some advice which might help . I 'm going to go ahead and assume that any hot water source is unavailable and you are in a frame of mind where the water is too cold !!! Step 1 - Making Peace with the Cold Water Okay so you do n't like cold water , the best way to make peace with it is to convince yourself that it 's not too cold . It 's like entering a cold swimming pool , if you dip your feet in it for a while , it 'll be easier for you to get in . When you wake up in the morning , your body temperature feels lower because you have n't had breakfast yet , that 's a good thing because it makes it easier to ease into the seemingly freakish cold water . If you happen to have a shower , then turn the shower on and let it gradually touch your feet first , followed by your hands . Keep the water running and slowly ease in from the extremities of your body all the way to your face . You face is the part which you 'll dread the most , so save it till the end after you feel like the body temperature going down . If you happen to have a jug and a bucket of water , follow the swimming pool strategy . Fill in the bucket halfway and dip your feet and hands in it . Then slowly start pouring down the cold water on your hands and proceed . One additional thing which might help is to have a towel on you . A towel which you could dip in the water and squeeze out/rub on your body will help . Step 2 - Taking the Leap of Faith You have to remember , practice makes a man perfect ! Doing it the first time is much harder than doing it the Nth time . After cooling down your body for a few minutes , hold your breath and step into the shower , as soon as you get into it , do n't chicken out ! The leap is the hardest , after it , it gets exponentially easier . Same goes with a bucket of water and jug , when you 're ready , repeatedly take a lot of water from the bucket and pour it over yourself . You start doing it , do n't stop ! Water in which you were dipping your hands or feet it will actually be warmer and make it a bit easier , which is why I feel using a bucket and jug is easier with cold water . Step 3 - Finish as soon as possible Remember , once you get into it , there 's no coming back , there 's no point doing the whole procedure from scratch again . So , keep pouring that cold water over you , it gets much easier when you keep doing it . Pause for short breaks only when you need to use soap or shampoo . Wash your body in little sections , torso at once , feet at once , hands at once etc. . After you 're done , get a fresh towel and hug yourself tight with it . I 've done the exact procedure I mentioned a several hundred times in my life quite comfortably , of course I like my hot water , but where there 's a will , there 's a way .
There 's a pretty good <URL> , and from that , it looks like the bus is a viable option : Dublin Airport is only 16 miles away . The airport is serviced by buses ( 41 , 41a , 41b , 41c ) which will take you into the city centre where you can transfer onto a bus to Dun Laoghaire . There is also a service called AirCoach , this service is run on coaches and will deliver you in comfort and speed to selected locations around the city . The Dart is also accessible using the AerDart service which takes you by bus to Killester Dart station . The first <URL> on Sundays leaves from Dublin Airport at 07:15 . How early are you arriving ? From the centre you can then take one of these towards Dun Laoghaire : 7 , 7a , 8 , 45a , 46a , 59 , 75 , 111 Some of these buses start between 7-8 , some only at 09:30 , and some do n't run at all on Sundays . For more details , you could try the <URL> . Regarding the price : from the <URL> site it 's not immediately clear if you can continue on the same ticket when changing to the Dun Laoghaire bus , but looking at the <URL> , it 's going to be quite cheap in every case ( compared to a taxi which would cost around $ 50 ) .
<URL> has a great collection of walks , including many in the Peak District . It has information on grading/difficulty , length , locations , detailed instructions , and items of interest along the way . It does not have detailed maps , but provides references to the relevant OS maps that should be taken along .
I would recommend Ambleside : there 's a frequent bus service ( 555 ) from Windermere ( which it is very close to ) and you can do day-hikes without a bus to Grasmere and quite a few fells ( e.g. Fairfield ) . With short bus trip ( at least in Summer ) you can get up the Langdale valley , and on to Coniston or towards Keswick for day-hikes on some classic hills ( the Old Man of Coniston , Helvellyn , etc. ) You might also consider Keswick itself ( about 30 mins by bus from Penrith station ) which is handy for Blencathra and Skiddaw hikes and Derwent Water .
<URL> ! Try to find a brand that is not in every Ikea store , though :
end question
start question
Can one use a TER train inside Île-de-France with an Île-de-France pass ?
Yes you can . All these three tickets can be used on <URL> , including TER and Intercités . There are some restrictions though : You are not allowed to use it on trains with compulsory seat reservation , such as TGV trains . Note that reservation is never compulsory , and I think even not possible in TER trains . Regarding the Intercités trains , reservation is compulsory on some of them . This restriction will not bite you as you will not need to travel on them . If you rely on TER and the other operators , you have a very good network at your disposal . You are not allowed to travel first class . With " Mobilis " and " Ticket Jeunes " you are not allowed to access the airports Orly and Roissy by train ( <URL> ) . Moreover the airport busses , Orlybus and Roissybus , can not be used with these two kinds of tickets . None of these passes allows you to use the <URL> light railway . You have to be sure that your ticket is indeed valid in the zones you want to travel , for the whole journey . If it is n't , with a Navigo pass , you can purchase a <URL> ( you need to buy it just before your trip at your origin station ) . Note that a Navigo monthly or yearly pass ( but not a weekly pass ) is valid for the whole Île-de-France region on week-ends and public holidays . With Mobilis or Ticket Jeunes Week-end , your pass must be valid for the whole journey .
Leaving from Paris ( and presumably going through Tours ) is clearly not a good option given your criteria . The area around Paris and the <URL> are generally flat and the route then goes around the Massif Central , without any major mountainous area and generally less dramatic landscape . The <URL> also includes many rather flat areas but at least it does cross the Massif Central . So the <URL> seems the best option for you , with one small caveat : Le Puy is in a relatively mountainous area and some of the steepest climbs ( apart from the crossing of the Pyrenees , which is common to all three ways ) would be at the very beginning ( do n't imagine the Rockies or even the Alps however ) . The rest of this route include some plateau and many hilly areas ( not really mountains but not flat either ) and the infrastructure is great . Because of this , you can basically make the progression as easy as you want by stopping more frequently . Also note that the GR65 is marked all the way to Geneva . You could start somewhere east of Lyon to have a couple of days of relatively flat terrain before approaching Le Puy and the Massif Central ( not sure about the infrastructure on this part of the way but finding support should not be difficult , it 's not a wild area at all ) . I am less familiar with the various routes in Spain but my understanding is that the Camino Frances is the only one starting in Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port so that would be the logical option since you are apparently planning to walk one of the major French ways . It certainly boast varied landscape and great support infrastructure .
AIT/FIA act as guarantors for the Carnet de Passages en Douane and the <URL> do not include Pakistan in an extensive list of countries under " Where to get your CPD " . Seems may not be available in Pakistan , but it might be worth contacting Automobile Association of Pakistan and Motorsport Association of Pakistan as these are both FIA members . The <URL> has some cost information , though other issuing organisations presumably differ . Sorry , that link is dead ( there is no longer any representative in the UK that issues CDPs ) .
I have now made the trip and can therefore answer my own question . Yes , they do let you take the earlier Thalys train , but you will not have a seat reservation , so the trip may be less comfortable . Taking the earlier train may be seen as a trade-off between time and comfort . Getting to the earlier train in time was easy as I suspected . It took me less than 10 minutes to get off my plane , walk to the station , pick up my ticket at the NS desk and go down to the platform . I believe I would have been able to make it in time even with a slight delay and/or checked-in luggage . Both the guy at the ticket counter and the staff at the platform told me that I would be allowed on the earlier train if it was not full . The staff on the train told me that there would be no empty seats for part of the trip , but that I could always stand in the restaurant car . I was able to sit down from Schiphol to Rotterdam and from Antwerp to Brussels , but on the Rotterdam-Antwerp leg all seats were reserved and occupied , so I had to stand in the restaurant car for roughly a third of the trip . There were 4 of us standing there , so I was not the only one lacking a seat reservation . I got the impression that this was standard practice and that they would normally always let you on the earlier train , but that there was no explicit guarantee . I can imagine that they reserve the right to decline if for instance the train gets really packed . It was definitely worth it for me to take the earlier train , since I was on a tight schedule and I really did n't mind standing for part of the trip . On the other hand , if you ´ re not in a hurry and you do n't mind spending an extra hour in Schiphol , having a seat reservation would probably make your train ride more enjoyable . Taking the earlier train probably does n't always mean that you have to stand for part of the trip , and you can always ask before you get on if it means you will have to stand .
The core differences between a phone app and a dedicated handheld gps are : battery life - the gps will have much longer battery life , but you have a charger for your phone so as long as you get enough sun you 'll be fine . What 's the weather like where you are heading ? ruggedness - gps devices are considerably stronger than an iPhone . Generally they are waterproof as well . Again , this may not be an issue , unless you fall in a river ... sensitivity - dedicated gps hardware is often much better at ascertaining your position . This may or may not be useful for you - in steep sided mountain ravines it can make all the difference . So if you do n't need any of those features , go with your phone . Personally I 'd always take the gps unit and my phone . And while I may log my track on the phone as well , my core nav service would be the gps , and my comms service would be the phone .
<URL> : What if I hold dual or multiple passports when using arrivals SmartGate ? Non-Australian citizens If you are a dual passport holder -- aged 16 years or older and hold an ePassport from an eligible country -- you can use arrivals SmartGate . At the kiosk , be sure to use the same ePassport you presented when checking in to your flight to Australia . Australian citizens If you are an Australian citizen , you must use your Australian passport to enter Australia . If you are aged 16 years or older * and hold an Australian ePassport , you can use arrivals SmartGate . At the kiosk , be sure to use your Australian ePassport . * Australian children aged 10 to 15 years ( inclusive ) can use arrivals SmartGate if they hold an ePassport and are accompanied by a minimum of two adults .
According to the <URL> , there is a cable car operating from Chamonix to Aiguille du Midi almost all year around ( except for 11/4-12 / 20 ) . The return-trip would cost you 55 euro 's .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
Cagnes-sur-Mer has a railway station , with frequent trains from Nice ( generally every half hour ) . Trains take about 15 minutes , and you just buy the ticket at the station on departure . Depending on where you are in Nice <URL> might be useful too . The local bus company has its website here : <URL> ( Press the British flag for English ) . Generally speaking : Getting there by public transport is easy and cheap . Doing it as a day trip perfectly feasible . Haut de Cagnes is about 1km from the train station . If you really do n't want to climb , you can walk to the town center ( square Bourdet , also a stop on bus 94 ) and take <URL> uphill .
For EN 446 , no It 's a night train and they do not want people to get on in Potsdam . <URL> , and they responded . ( I had a typo in the train-number . ) <URL> Here 's a free translation to English : Me : Why ca n't I book EC446 from Cologne to Frankfurt/Oder online although it stops there ? DB : Do you mean EN 446 ? In Potsdam we do n't plan for people to get on , only off . That 's why this station can not be booked . Me : Yes , that one . Can I book from Frankfurt and get on in Potsdam anyway ? DB : No , because in Potsdam only deboardings are planned , not boardings ;-) Me : Are there bouncers ? Can I get on later in regular ICE trains ? For example if I have a ticket from Berlin to Cologne , can I get on in Spandau or Wolfsburg ? DB : Our people are on the platform . Of course you can get on later , but remember that seat reservations are forfeit after 15 minutes . So we can conclude that on this particular train , you can not do that . We do n't know why exactly , but if you try anyway and they catch you , they might not let you in . In general , yes You can always leave early or get on late in regular trains . Your tickets with Deutsche Bahn give you the right to be on the train ( or any train on a direct route ) between two stations . They frequently do not check tickets between two or more given stations . There is no way for the conductor to tell if you sat there for one station , two stations or longer if they are passing through the carriage for the first time to check tickets after the fourth station . It can also happen that you get never checked because you got on at the other end of the train and get off at the next station while they are still busy somewhere else . The above Twitter conversation confirms this personal experience . Bonus-Information : If that happens and your printed ticket does not get checked/clipped your City-Ticket in the destination might not be valid . You need to go get it stamped at the information desk in the destination station or local public transport might fine you for not having a ticket .
The quick answer is yes , you can . Read on for the details What to get You have to get your JR pass from your home country before you leave for Japan , they 're not for sale there ! Here 's a <URL> , search for your region and buy it there . The green car is not necessary unless you want it , it 's like a first class train . How it works Once you have it , your pass is your train ticket , you just show it to board . The JR pass allows you to travel on JR lines ( except Mizuho and Nozomi trains ) , so make sure to avoid the small private networks and you should be fine . <URL> so you will have to go to the station to reserve a seat ( you ca n't do it online ) . Your JR pass means the reservation is free , but you still have to do it . There 's no minimum time before the train leaves , I 've done it 20-30min or a few days before , it does n't take very long , but if it 's a busy route all the seats may already be reserved . <URL> has a great page about this . How to get there Now , with all that said , there are many trains that run between Sapporo and Tokyo , especially now with the introduction of the Shinkansen you have more options , and there 's always an overnight train too . You can definitely do the whole journey on a train only . <URL> is your best friend here , just make sure you check the right options when you 're searching for trips ! <URL>
Most tours to Salar de Uyuni start from Uyuni town , you can get there both by train and bus from further north in Boliva . We took a bus from Potosí in the morning and arrived in the mid afternoon , at least 5 hours . Nice landscape but bad roads , our bus broke down twice . From Sucre you can go via Potosí , but I am not sure whether you can do the whole way from Sucre to Uyuni in one day ( light ) trip . The train leaves from Oruro , a pretty dull town between La Paz and Potosí . Even though I prefer trains as well , the reason why I did not take it was its timetable . It either leaves at 15:30 or 19:00 arriving in Uyuni at 22:20 or 2:20 respectively ( <URL> ) . Uyuni is a bit rough around the edges and I did not want to arrive there in the dark . I do n't think it is unsafe , but we still had to find accommodation and book a tour to leave the next morning . You really do n't want to spend two nights in Uyuni . Photo credit : <URL>
Yes , you should be able to do that . That 's precisely what the single market is about and , incidentally , the reason why the EU enacts so many seemingly petty unrelated rules ( EU countries have to agree on rules regarding safety , labelling , etc. so that most products can then circulate freely between them instead of setting rules independently of each other and enforcing those rules at the border ) . Information provided on the <URL> reflects this : If you 're travelling from a country within the EU , you can bring any fresh foodstuffs - fruit , vegetables , meat , dairy or other animal products ( eg fish , eggs and honey ) - into the UK . ( This being based on EU law , French rules will be similar . ) The only exceptions to this general principle are things like firearms and drugs , for which rules have n't been harmonized . Even alcohol or tobacco can be carried between countries relatively freely , provided it is for your personal use ( quantitative thresholds <URL> are only guidelines based on the notion that very large quantities are not for personal use ) .
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
Consider one of the nearby hotels . Parking is available at all 3 terminals at Charles de Gaulle . Long term rates are 22 $ per day up to eight days and more expensive with a longer stay . This is presumably what you 've seen , and certainly for two weeks , that 'll hurt . If you are planning a longer stay it may be advisable to park at one of the nearby hotels who offer great deals on park and stay : these include the Hilton , Novotel , Ibis , Prestige , and Sofitel .
It seem that there is but the only way to fly might be a chartered flight . <URL> which supposedly services the airport does n't seem to have any scheduled flights to or from Santiago de Veraguas . The only thing I was able to find are charter planes that are able to go to the airport . Which seems to be confirmed by a <URL> , which states that you can only charter a plane to fly into the Ruben Cantu Airport , the book also gives you some other options of getting to and from Santiago de Veraguas . So your best bet would be to take a bus or rent a car and go to Panama City and then take a flight to Bocas del Toro .
Yes , although it will still require a few preparations , as you 'll need to join a samba school . Although you wo n't need to know how to samba ! From <URL> : What you require All you require is to choose which samba school you 'd like to parade with and which wing of the parade you 'd like to be in . Each wing has its own costume and you can browse through these online , choose the one that catches your fancy and order it your size . Then you simply have to show up at the parade venue on the appointed day . Remember that the Carnaval 2012 Rio parade samba schools will close their costume order bookings around December 2011 . Before the parade You will receive , along with your booking , a copy of the theme song of the Carnaval 2012 Rio samba school you have decided to parade with , so you can be prepared to sing along at the show . You do n't even have to attend any rehearsals . Simply show up at the school 's meeting point ( which will be informed to you ) around 2 hours before the scheduled parading time of your school . Some packages even arrange a pick up and drop to the Sambadrome . During the parade You will be briefed about what to do during the parade when you arrive at the warming up or ' concentracao ' area , but you mainly require to follow the others in your wing . While you are there to have fun , remember that what you do will also reflect on the school 's final score so make sure you conduct yourself appropriately . Other than that , just enjoy yourself ! If your school is among the top 6 winners you can participate again in the Carnaval 2012 Rio Champions ' Parade . And from <URL> , you can buy a package to be part of the parade , with a costume , again through a school : This is the real thrill , an unparalleled experience - parading in a beautiful costume , to the heartbreaking beats of the drums and samba , on the biggest " stage " on Earth . People who " just " watch the Rio Carnival Parade find it a definite once-in-a-life-time experience . People who also take part and parade , want to do it every year . To be able to participate you only have to Buy a costume - it serves as your " ticket " to march with a school . We will all have it already arranged for you . Go to the meeting point of your school in your costume , at the right time ( see your school 's parading time on the side ) . You will not need to attend any rehearsals . You shall understand how to march just following your fellow paraders and participating in the school 's warm-up before entering the Avenue .
The 35 euro fares are discounted advertised fares that are hard to obtain . Trains between Amsterdam and Paris are more expensive , especially if you have to travel on short notice . A good alternative ( especially if you have time ) is to take the train from Amsterdam to Antwerp , then change trains to the train from Antwerp to Lille . From Lille on you can travel to almost anywhere in France . You really need to ask for this connection , because the railways try to sell as many high speed tickets as possible , just to pay of their high speed investment . From Lille on there are cheaper high speed train connection than the international connections . You can also choose to go for a so called TER connection . If you want to go to Paris for example , you can take the high speed link ( approx . 1 hour ) or you could choose to go take the " slow link " to Maubeuge and switch trains there to Paris ( approx . 4 hours ) .
Yes , you can travel between the different terminals in CDG . Apparently , when connecting from terminal 2C to terminal 1 , if both your flights are from/to outside of Schengen , you can usually connect without entering France , with the <URL> . But in your case , you do not want to do that for now . As @phoog commented , the shopping area of terminal 2E is in the international zone . so you should not need to cross the border into France . What you want to do is take the blue shuttle that links terminal 2C and 2E . Once you are done you will have to take the blue shuttle back to terminal 2C , then the green shuttle to go to terminal 1 . If for some other reason ( typically to see your friend , since this friend might not be able to access the international zone ) , you want to cross the border : as an American passport holder , <URL> ( it is still a border , so the border agent may deny you the entry ) . Once you cross the border , you can go to terminal 2E , then to terminal 1 for your connection . To go from terminal 2 to terminal 1 , you have to take the CDGVal , that appears on the <URL> . Keep in mind that crossing the border may take some time . If your two flights are with different airlines , you will probably have to collect your luggage and check it in again , so that will take even more time .
end question
start question
Cellphone service in Southeast Asia ?
The best way to get cell phone service throughout Southeast Asia is to buy a SIM card in each country ; probably at the airport when you land . You can buy a SIM at most international airports with minimal wait . Less than $ 20.00 US will usually last you for a week ( voice , data , SMS , and tethering ) . The greatest overhead will be for them to potentially copy your passport . I 've found this to be reasonably efficient ; the cost of obtaining a SIM is easily outweighed by the benefit of having a fully functional smartphone . Furthermore , you have the experts there who usually have a decent command of English . I do n't leave the stand until I am able to browse a website . Like any system , the more familiar you are with it the easier it is to work with .
Ok , first of all <URL> apart from the big chains which offer free Wifi as long as you consume something . Obviously you will have to make sure that these places are open and according to your taste . A cafe or pub might be more suitable than a sushi restaurant for long-term surfing . Second of all there is a <URL> with free wifi , and this list is maintained by an online magazine and much more detailed .
I can not tell you the exact official position ( or the N official positions as the case may be ) but I can give you some useful personal anecdotal input . Short : You are extremely unlikely to have any problems at all if you are otherwise sensibly behaved . If you did happen to incur the wrath of the authorities I would not be overly surprised if a statute relating to knife carrying was found to have been breached . It 's not something I 'd be concerned about personally , see below . You hear about some very very very bad things happening in China . More than a few of these are probably true . If you do run afoul of the system things can go rather wrong . But , they do generally treat foreigners well enough officially . ( I have seen a ' local ' man with his hands handcuffed behind him pushed to the ground on a city street by a largish group of um - guys with all the same colour clothes and helmets and matching sticks ... and kicked repeatedly in the back . Why I know not . He did n't actually seem to care too much , to my surprise . ) Whereas I have given people in authority enough excuse to justify treating me badly and they have instead treated me acceptably well . YMMV . Long : When I travel overseas on business I often carry one or two pocket knives along with a significant collection of electrical and mechanical tools . When I travel privately the tool collection reduces ' somewhat ' but the knives remain . I used to carry a Swiss Army knife but find that an ordinary knife is overall more useful as an " engineering " tool in all sorts of situations . If I really want a screwdriver I usually have one with me . ( Or two or three or six :-) ) . The following three paragraphs may seem unnecessary but are relevant to what follows : My knives are absolutely NOT intended as weapons . When occasion arises I instruct young people what to do with a knife if you are attacked - viz : " Bury it deep in your pocket and make sure nobody knows that you have it - odds are that any one who wishes you physical harm knows how to use a knife better than you do , will probably manage to take it from you and giving them something that may be more liable to kill you than what they have already is probably unwise . " But - other people do not know why I carry them . The two knives I usually carry are metal , folding , single blade . About 3 " I think . Neither is spring-open style but both can be seen as borderline ' flick knife ' as both are designed to be opened one handed either by a stud on the blade on one which allows the thumb to swing the blade or by pressure on a short behind the hinge blade extension on the other which allows thumb pressure to rotate the blade . Both lock open and have a latch that must be operated to allow them to close . Again one handed with due practice . I practiced with both enough to allow me to withdraw the knife and open it in one motion and to also put it away one handed . ie the knives are of a type that while useful would be expected to be borderline legal or worse in some countries . They are sharp and pointed and made to be opened as they are taken from a pocket . The blades lock open . I have travelled extensively in China - 15 visits and 6 months in China in the last 6 years . As well as travelling as a passenger in private cars I have travelled widely by train , taxi , bus and air . I bought both knives in China . One from a typical city-suburbs grocery store where it was on open display at a counter with maybe a dozen other models . The other from an inner city street market where it was on display with dozens of others among hundreds of sellers of which many would also have been selling knives . When I fly I check my pockets at check-in to ensure nothing unallowed is carried . I put one or two knives in the outer zipped pocket of my checked in bag and recover them on arrival . They would show easily on XRay or the most causual inspection The bags are on some occasions inspected and/or xrayed while out of my care . On one occasion I got my bag back last of anyone so that I was last in queue . It did not occur to me that this was not just happenstance :-) . On arrival at security / customs I was invited to join half a dozen customs men in a side room and we spent a merry half hour or so looking at everything in all my bags and having me explain what each was . I had a full electronics workshop with me :-) . That was during the Olympics at Qingdao ( Olympic yachting ) and they were ' cautious ' . The knives were not treated any different from anything else . ( This was an internal non-border airport but these can be treated in much the same way as an international border . ) I have used the knives ' as required ' in my China travels . Bag or shoe repair . Various misc tasks . In Urumqi ( far North West China ) the Uighur men all carry ( I 'm told ) special curved and decorated knives . These are sold in all shapes and sizes in the shops and I saw groups of men sitting in circles inspecting knives - what they look for in them I did not find out . I on
There is n't a free public shuttle bus service to/from the airport . ( There are , of course , <URL> . ) What I think your relative may have gotten it confused with is <URL> that are reserved for guests . I 'd recommend taking the <URL> though . It 's a lot cheaper ( $ 100 ) than getting a taxi and a lot faster than a bus given Hong Kong 's traffic , and if you 're going to the airport many airlines now offer check-in desks in the city itself , before you get to the airport . Once you have paid for your ticket and caught the HKIA express : Free shuttle bus service is available , taking passengers from Kowloon or Hong Kong stations to most major hotels and transport interchanges . Passengers can also enjoy free porter service at all Airport Express stations . So if you have a hotel near Kowloon or Hong Kong station , you should be able to get a free shuttle bus once you have taken the Airport Express .
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
You can probably look at <URL> , which lists potential food and waterborne diseases like : food or waterborne diseases acquired through eating or drinking on the local economy : Hepatitis A - viral disease that interferes with the functioning of the liver ; spread through consumption of food or water contaminated with fecal matter , principally in areas of poor sanitation ; victims exhibit fever , jaundice , and diarrhea ; 15 % of victims will experience prolonged symptoms over 6-9 months ; vaccine available . Hepatitis E - water-borne viral disease that interferes with the functioning of the liver ; most commonly spread through fecal contamination of drinking water ; victims exhibit jaundice , fatigue , abdominal pain , and dark colored urine . Typhoid fever - bacterial disease spread through contact with food or water contaminated by fecal matter or sewage ; victims exhibit sustained high fevers ; left untreated , mortality rates can reach 20 % . What else could potentially be in the water might depend on the region and industry such as potentially pesticides or other chemicals .
According to the article in the <URL> it is possible as long as she 's in a female only area and hence you ca n't be with her . This information obviously is a little dated but the only area that is known for laxer regulations would be the island of <URL> but that information is even more dated . The most recent English news I was able to find is an <URL> so legally it is highly unlikely that regulations enforced for hijab would be laxer for bikinis .
I doubt there is anything specific for Pentecost in Lisbon . Searching for events in Lisbon around that date on multiple websites was not successful . The <URL> did not return any match for that day , neither <URL> . Typing " Pentecostes Lisboa " in a search engine ending up pointing to <URL> so if you are religious you should be able to find a church with a specific mass . Regarding Pentecost Monday , unlike said on some <URL> , it does not seem to be a public holiday in Portugal . Multiple <URL> , including <URL> , do not list it as a public holiday . However , it seems a few towns have a public holiday on the Monday or Tuesday after Pentecost , but mostly in the North of the country , as listed on the <URL> .
You can use any exchange rate service , but they like it if you use <URL> because they get trained on that one for T1 and T2 applications . Since Sterling is taking a caning right now , you would do a little better by picking today 's closing rate , 70p to the dollar and use it for all your evidence going back 3 to 6 months . For Naira that would be 35p per 100 Naira They are not going to make a big deal about it as long as you do n't go cherry picking through historical rates . The rate is not as important for visitor applications as it is for PBS and settlement applications . For representation , you can use the remarks section and add a statement like ... A Sterling conversion rate of xxxx has been used . This was the closing rate on xx/xx/xx per the internet Oanda service .
Airliners or staff tickets are not available to regular passengers , they are strictly available to employees of different airlines . Each airlines provides each employee with certain or unlimited number of free/discounted tickets each year/contract depending on the contract or level of the employee . In addition to that each airline may have a bilateral agreement with other airlines so employees of these airlines can get discounted space available tickets on the other airline , this is called <URL> . The process of getting such a ticket is not as easy as dropping by an airline 's ticketing office and get one ! it has to be issued from the employee 's airline according to the agreement and it may have a special application to be filled and the person has to show proper airlines ID prior to boarding . These tickets usually are extremely cheap ( around 90 % discount or more ) but it is seat available , I have saved a lot of money because of the ZED agreements , I also have faced a lot of delays when the planes are full and I could n't get a seat . Anyway , staff tickets are only available to airlines staff . For regular passengers I am not aware of any disounted " Space Available " tickets , the only way to go is the different offers and discounts from different airlines/websites .
Have n't been to Oregon but the way it works in New Jersey where law is the same is as follows : You pull up to the gas station . You wait in the car until an attendant comes . You give him Cash and he pumps the gas . Credit card behavior vary depending on the types of pumps installed . In some gas stations pumps can not be activated unless an attendant uses his own card to activate the pump . In case the pump can be activated by your own credit card you can pump your own gas and noone will tell you anything about it . One thing to keep in mind though that the register for the gas is usually kept separate from the convenience store so if you decide to pay cash you will need an attendant . Tipping in this case is absolutely your choice . In New Jersey it 's not a requirement or recommendation but if you choose to do it . Do it . Technically under the law in both states it is illegal though I have not seen it enforced . <URL> but if you are concerned about <URL> . Makes for an interesting read . :)
You may not need a guide specifically for kids , as all recent editions of Lonely Planet guides include little " family friendly " icons next to all listings that are considered family friendly , which means : Indicates children are welcome and accommodated for through the facilities available ( eg has change rooms , an elevator , flexible sleeping arrangements , children 's menus etc ) . Not used to indicate a child might enjoy a place ( eg a theme park ) -- that should be clear from the review . Most books also have a Travelling with Children chapter with various highlights ( and pitfalls ) for kids in that city/country . And while this wo n't help in your specific case , for older kids ( 8 + ) , there 's also the <URL> series intended specifically for kids to read and use themselves . And , as a traveling father of a 1.5-year-old myself , I 'll heartily second Grzenio 's recommendation to book accommodation in advance . Kid-hostile restaurants etc you can always deal with somehow ( take-away , one parent takes the kid for a walk while the other eats , etc ) , but conjuring a hotel room or crib out of thin air is a bit harder .
The area you have described as the ' city center ' with bars and clubs is typically referred to by Londoners as the " West End " ... The West End of London ( more commonly referred to as simply the West End ) is an area of Central London containing many of the city 's major tourist attractions , shops , businesses , government buildings and entertainment venues ( including the commercial West End theatres ) . Source : <URL> The " West End " is an informal term and does not have strict boundaries . Hotels will always have a postal code . If you are booking a hotel , you can examine the hotel 's postal code to see if it is inside the " West End " or immediately adjacent to it . Postal codes start with the Post Code Area , which is the first one or two letters followed by a number , which signifies the district . Combining the area and district will tell you where it is relative to the ' city center ' . In your case , a postal codes starting with WC or W1 ( City of Westminster ) would be directly inside the West End . Examples are W1G ( Marylebone ) and W1F ( Soho ) and W1K ( Mayfair ) . Covent Garden and the ' theatre district ' is in WC2 . <URL> Lots of visitors like to book in the Paddington district and there are countless small B&amp;B 's and tourist hotels to cater to visitors . Establishments in Paddington would have postal codes starting with W2 . See <URL> Areas immediately adjacent to the West End would have postal areas/districts like W2 ( Paddington ) , SW1 ( Belgravia ) , and to the north , NW1 , NW8 , and so on . As you get further out , the district numbers will generally increase although not always . You 'll need to refer to a map for districts greater than 1 . NOTE : the ' City of London ' itself uses post codes starting with EC . This is the financial district and does not have the night life commonly associated with ' London ' . There is an interactive postal code map at <URL> Also see <URL>
There is only one location that checks all your boxes , and no others come close : Istanbul . The west part of the city ( its historical center ) is considered to be in Europe , the part on the eastern side of the Bosphorus strait is in Asia . There is a bridge that you can drive over , the city is extremely scenic with many beautiful mosques and the Hagia Sophia , and it does n't get much more historically significant ; it was the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire , of Byzantium , and of the Ottoman Empire . Other than that , the border between Europe and Asia is ill-defined and although the concept of the border is of historical significance , there wo n't be much of a historically significant or even visible physical border on the ground . The usual convention is that the border runs along the Caucasus and Ural mountain ranges , mostly in Russia , but I do n't think you 'll find nice marked crossing points there . Some people opine that Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus is also on the border , but according to <URL> it 's actually north of the Caucasus watershed that is usually used as the border . It 's Europe 's highest mountain at 5642m , relatively easy to climb and some scientists have actually managed to get to the summit with a Land Rover ( see the article ) , but I do n't think it qualifies ... Edit : actually it is apparently wrong to say that the border is invisible elsewhere -- in the Urals there seem to be some monuments marking it , see e.g. <URL> , which has pictures of a few of them west of Yekaterinburg .
There is a minimum checkin time for Eurostar trains , which is generally 30 minutes before departure ( see below for details ) , but it does vary . Before listing the times , it 's worth thinking a little bit about how the Eurostar checkin process works , as that explains why it is as it is . When you get to the station , you need to checkin with your ticket , either using the automated ticket gates , or with one of the checkin counters ( normally only if you have a problem ) . The deadline is for going through here . After that , there 's normally a small queue ( varies with the number of services due out ) before the security screening . You can take a <URL> , but there are still <URL> . Your bags get x-ray 'd , you go through a metal detector , then you queue up again for the juxtaposed border controls . You show your passport , and clear immigration for the country you 're going to ( either France of the UK , depending on direction ) . After that , you 're into the waiting area before boarding ( and frequent travellers can visit the lounge ) Boarding of Eurostar trains normally begins 20 minutes before departure , and they tend to close the doors a minute or two before the scheduled departure time so they can leave on time . For the ski trains , and summer Avignon service to the south of France , boarding starts earlier , often 35 minutes before . For most people , on most services , the <URL> . If you 're travelling on a Business Premier ticket ( the really expensive ones ) , or you have a Eurostar Carte Blanche frequent traveller card ( lots of journeys in a year ) , then the minumum checkin is 10 minutes before . However , as you do still need to clear security and immigration , you 're probably going to have to run to the train , and there wo n't be time to go in the lounge with only 10 minutes , so getting there earlier is probably advised , especially at busy times ! For the long distance services to Avignon and the Ski Trains , the minimum checkin is 1 hour ( 60 minutes ) before departure . Boarding starts earlier for these , and most people have more luggage , so it all takes a bit longer hence the extra time . Anyone with <URL> needs to add 30 minutes extra . The minimum checkin enforcement varies a little bit . If it 's quiet , you may get away with 25 minutes , but that 's about it . At a very quiet time , you can clear security an immigration in about 5 minutes , but at busy times with lots of queuing it 'll take longer . At a busy time , they tend to be pretty strict !
It seems that the blog entry you linked is outdated ( 2012 ) , as a newer similar <URL> simply does not list the tennis rackets as a prohibited item onboard while it does list the other items . <URL> has the most recent policies , which clearly allows it . Anyway , here is a list of some of the airlines policies regarding tennis racquets , they would have not allowed them if they were not allowed by TSA : Delta : Allowed , check <URL> , under " Fragile , Bulky &amp; Other Items " . United : Allowed ( one item only ) , check the " Tennis " section in the <URL> . JetBlue : : Allowed ( counted as a carry-on piece ) , check the <URL> . American Airlines : : Allowed , check the <URL> . Bear in mind that most ( if not all ) airlines will count it as a carry-on baggage , so if your carry-on allowance is one piece , then the racquet will use that , you will need to pay some $ if you are carrying a bag with you along with it .
It kind of depends where you 're going but I 've had experience driving in Norway when I traveled there a couple years ago . Their roads are generally in GREAT shape . In some places they have luminescent paint/markers on the road . Part of having such high taxes , great public services . To be fair that applies to their major roads and anything around cities . The country roads I drove on were pretty good . Its the remote roads and mountainous places that may not be maintained as often . As it has been mentioned , winter does get very cold/slippery outside of Oslo and other major cities . The rental company may have winter tires on the vehicle in that case .
None . I have visited all those countries and I was n't asked about insurance by any country ( we have free medical care back in my home country but I think that 's irrelevant ) . A note about your credit card 's insurance : if you plan to use it , just make sure you are eligible for it before leaving the country . In most cases , you have to buy the ticket using that particular card and/or have spent a minimum amount using that card . I tried to make a claim a few months back . It did n't really went good .
I got an urgent-processing passport recently . The rules <URL> . I do n't think there 's an official cut-off time , but I showed up as early as I could in the morning just in case , recommend the same to you , since even when I showed up early there was already a line in the urgent category . You need proof of travel ( airline printout with reservation number is fine , with proof of payment ) . As the website notes , there are other things they may accept ( e.g. note on illness of family member ) . One important point : make sure that the people you list as references are ready to answer their phone ! The Passport Office will certainly call them , and in my case they called one of my references , he did n't pick up the phone in time , and I had to call the passport office to make them call again and they only did it hours later , it was very stressful . Make sure your references are literally waiting by the phone . To clarify , they 're pretty lax about the reason for urgent processing . It does n't need to be a true emergency/illness/etc . In my case the reason I needed urgent processing was embarassingly stupid and they did it anyway :) Proof of travel and payment for travel is the key . Also , needless to say , make sure you have the correct form filled out prior to arriving ( there are many different passport application forms ) , have your passport photos , etc. .
Book it when you get there . Most cooking classes - even the popular ones near Bangkok 's Khao San Road - are never full . Just book them a day before you plan to attend , although sometimes you can also walk in on the day itself . Source : I did n't attend a class , but I looked around and spoke to cooking class place owners and people who took them at my hostel . I ultimately decided not to because I found them a tad expensive for my budget .
end question
start question
Is it possible to sit at a seat of higher class , for free , after boarding a flight ?
You are not permitted to sit in a different cabin from your ticketed cabin unless you are moved there by the cabin crew ( say , there is a medical problem and extra seats are needed mid-flight -- though you 'd still probably get reseated in crew seats instead of in business class ) . " Self-upgraders " will be discovered very quickly and removed as a matter of policy on any airline . Why not allow people to move to empty seats ? One might as well ask why not allow people at the gate to fill empty seats in the economy cabin . The plane is leaving one way or the other , so those seats would be " wasted " too . But the airline must protect its revenue and minimize its costs . If it tolerated people moving up without paying , it would both disincent people from purchasing premium fares ( whether revenue or award ) , and also incur costs that it would not otherwise have had to bear . Seats on an airplane are priced according to how the airline believes it can make a profit , taking many factors into consideration . Premium cabin prices reflect the premium people ( or rather more often , their employers ) are willing to pay for a more comfortable flight and a more exclusive cabin , as well as the higher costs of operating : There are fewer seats for the given space , so each seat must cost more to make the equivalent revenue There is a higher grade of service in those cabins ; for example , there is a higher ratio of flight attendants to passengers , and the flight attendants have more responsibilities ( e.g. addressing passengers by name , distributing pajamas ) . Flight attendants are expensive . The amenities in premium cabins are more expensive , not only to purchase but to prepare . In economy , your meal probably comes on trays that come straight out of the oven . In international first , you would expect your meal to be plated , which takes much more time and effort . It is already the case that when the economy cabin is full , gate agents will upgrade people who are high status frequent flyers and/or on very high fare tickets , according to each airline 's rules and procedures ( operational upgrades ) . American , Delta , and United indeed offer " automatic " upgrades to their elite frequent flyers on domestic flights . But even in these cases , some seats may go out empty . For example , the airline may be unable to cater enough meals for a full premium cabin , and the airline would not want to risk upsetting a paying customer by failing to deliver the promised level of service .
There are plenty of buses to Eugene from other cities . From Eugene there is a bus to the McKenzie River Ranger Station a few times a day <URL> From there , its a 10 mile hike . Could make a nice little backpacking overnight trip .
Generally , the most popular tourist destination for beaches are located on East and South coast of Korea . With some minor exceptions , I 'd avoid West coast in general because most of their beaches look like this : I know one of your primary concerns is proximity of the destination via public transportation , but what you must know is that Korea has one of the finest public transportation system in the world . Given its system and the size of the country , you could almost reach anywhere in Korea within 3 hours . My recommendations are Haeundae Beach in Busan ] or Gyungpodae Beach in Gangneung . Both locations have clean , swimmable water with lots of infrastructures available . It takes approximately two hours from Seoul to Busan via KTX + maybe an hour to take the bus in between to get to the station and to the beach , you could easily set yourself a foot on Haeundae within three hours . To Gyongpodae Beach in Gangneung , you 'd have to take a bus in Express Bus Terminal . It takes about 2 hours and 30 minutes by bus + 30 minutes to get to the beach . Some of the answers here mentioned Eurwangni . If proximity is an absolute must to you ... you COULD try Eurwangni I guess , but you 'll probably be disappointed . If situation allows , I really recommend you take a day or two to visit Busan or Gangneung . Aside from swimming , there are tons of other activities you can do .
You are not permitted to sit in a different cabin from your ticketed cabin unless you are moved there by the cabin crew ( say , there is a medical problem and extra seats are needed mid-flight -- though you 'd still probably get reseated in crew seats instead of in business class ) . " Self-upgraders " will be discovered very quickly and removed as a matter of policy on any airline . Why not allow people to move to empty seats ? One might as well ask why not allow people at the gate to fill empty seats in the economy cabin . The plane is leaving one way or the other , so those seats would be " wasted " too . But the airline must protect its revenue and minimize its costs . If it tolerated people moving up without paying , it would both disincent people from purchasing premium fares ( whether revenue or award ) , and also incur costs that it would not otherwise have had to bear . Seats on an airplane are priced according to how the airline believes it can make a profit , taking many factors into consideration . Premium cabin prices reflect the premium people ( or rather more often , their employers ) are willing to pay for a more comfortable flight and a more exclusive cabin , as well as the higher costs of operating : There are fewer seats for the given space , so each seat must cost more to make the equivalent revenue There is a higher grade of service in those cabins ; for example , there is a higher ratio of flight attendants to passengers , and the flight attendants have more responsibilities ( e.g. addressing passengers by name , distributing pajamas ) . Flight attendants are expensive . The amenities in premium cabins are more expensive , not only to purchase but to prepare . In economy , your meal probably comes on trays that come straight out of the oven . In international first , you would expect your meal to be plated , which takes much more time and effort . It is already the case that when the economy cabin is full , gate agents will upgrade people who are high status frequent flyers and/or on very high fare tickets , according to each airline 's rules and procedures ( operational upgrades ) . American , Delta , and United indeed offer " automatic " upgrades to their elite frequent flyers on domestic flights . But even in these cases , some seats may go out empty . For example , the airline may be unable to cater enough meals for a full premium cabin , and the airline would not want to risk upsetting a paying customer by failing to deliver the promised level of service .
If you miss the first leg of your trip , you will be treated as a " no-show " and the rest of that trip will be cancelled . If you had a flight XYZ-PHL-LGA and wanted to get off at PHL without finishing the journey , that is okay because you do n't need the rest of the trip anyway . Most of the time , your seat will be given to someone on standby . If you have checked luggage , it might take some time to retrieve . This is also a good way to lose your checked luggage ... :) Sometimes , sneaky travel agents can actually save you money by making these kind of tickets , where you are booked onto flights that you will never use , just because the airline has a campaign that ends up cheaper than a normal fare . The airlines do n't generally like this , and it is always at your own risk .
My boyfriend and I ( female ) were able to rent a private room at the Blue Baths in September ' 10 . Okay , here 's the Long Answer : At any one of the baths , it is possible to rent a private room , exclusive of massage and kisa ( skin scrub ) . From my personal experience , The Royal Baths have the single best/nicest room ( gorgeous blue paneled " dressing room " with sofas plus separate bathroom ) , but it costs a full 60 lari and is suitable for a much larger party than just 2 . Their " next tier down " ( 40-50 lari rooms ) are n't comparable to similarly priced rooms in other baths . I imagine 3-4 people could fit in one of these . The Blue Baths - 50 lari gets a gorgeous large room ( again with a separate dressing room/lounge area ) ; 25 lari ( what I paid with the boyfriend ) gets a tiny , dingy , slightly dirty-seeming room ( with ostensible " dressing area " but no sofas , etc ) so it 's worth paying more . The Baths Halfway Up Grishashvili St ( sorry , not sure of the name . Right where the Bohemia sign is ) offer a perfectly pleasant , if not visually stunning , room for 25 lari : this is possibly the best value-for-money bath in Tbilisi . Massages and skin scrubs cost extra ; the going rate seems to be 10 lari per service per person ( in all baths ) . The attendant will knock and enter - be aware that there is no expectation of modesty on either side : often the attendant will be wearing nothing but a bikini bottom regardless of gender ( note that this is not sexualized ; in my case , the woman was an older , 60-something professional who just did n't want to get her kit wet . However , it does seem that prostitutes do use the baths as a front ( with the tacit acceptance if not cooperation of the workers ) , so mixed groups and/or groups of men seeking massages should be extra clear that this is NOT what is going on . Tea can generally be brought to the rooms by attendants for 5-10 lari .
The <URL> on Wikitravel as referenced in <URL> continues : As of March 2007 , travel beyond Kengtung to the rest of Myanmar is not possible , even with a valid tourist visa Kengtung is a town several hours by bus from the Thai border . We stayed there for a few days and then took a domestic flight to Inle Lake . You can also fly to Mandalay and Rangoon and continue to the accessible rest of the country from there . I did meet people in Burma who crossed the border from China but that involved a pseudo tour with a $ 200 price tag . I also know someone who left Burma into Thailand overland from Rangoon , but I do not remember which border crossing she used . I myself entered in Mae Sai and flew out of Rangoon to Chang Mai , which means it is possible to use different crossings when entering and exiting . If the question is whether you can enter from one country and exit into a third , this seems possible from China into Thailand as long as you have the required permits to visit usually off-limit areas . Unless you try super hard and have very good connections it seems not possible to cross the Indian-Burmese border which is what many people including me would love to do .
I think it is perfectly okay to reject housekeeping services at a hotel . I do this all the time . On arrival I set it up that the room is only serviced " on request " that way my things and other stuff does n't get disturbed . And most hotels are generally very happy to comply and appreciate it .
In general the point of the medical component of travel insurance is to deal with acute treatement abroad and then if nessacery to transport you back home ( flying someone home on a stretcher is not cheap ) . Accidents do n't just happen when travelling , so if you feel the need for insurance against disablity caused by accidents then you should probablly look for something that will cover you all the time . It 's probablly also worth checking if any pension or life insurance policies you have include any cover for this .
Any question about staying overnight at an airport can usually be answered by consulting the comprehensive <URL> website . It 's probably best to read the reviews on that site to see the experiences of previous passengers there . Since you 're arriving from an international flight , you will have to clear security , re-check your luggage if you have any , and you may or may not be allowed through security for your flight the next day . I suspect you wo n't be allowed through but ca n't confirm that . If there has been disruption , apparently the airport sets up cots for passengers . If not , you will have to find a bench or quiet corner to sleep . If you can afford it , you 'll obviously be a lot more comfortable in a hotel . Looking on google maps for hotels near the airport , there seem to be reasonably inexpensive hotels nearby in the order of $ 80 - $ 100 .
I called the passenger information number in Immingham and spoke with a live agent ... Foot passengers who do not have a vehicle will not be permitted to board on either side ; Passengers on push bikes may be permitted to board in the Immingham , unclear for the Brevik side ; The entry point in Immingham is covered by the same <URL> governing airlines , so the <URL> will be alerted from Brevik if they are carrying non-EEA passengers .
I can add that we participate in the NYC Walkabout which runs annually . Unfortunately , the one this year already happened 3 weeks ago . walkaboutnyc.com
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
Yes , you can travel between the different terminals in CDG . Apparently , when connecting from terminal 2C to terminal 1 , if both your flights are from/to outside of Schengen , you can usually connect without entering France , with the <URL> . But in your case , you do not want to do that for now . As @phoog commented , the shopping area of terminal 2E is in the international zone . so you should not need to cross the border into France . What you want to do is take the blue shuttle that links terminal 2C and 2E . Once you are done you will have to take the blue shuttle back to terminal 2C , then the green shuttle to go to terminal 1 . If for some other reason ( typically to see your friend , since this friend might not be able to access the international zone ) , you want to cross the border : as an American passport holder , <URL> ( it is still a border , so the border agent may deny you the entry ) . Once you cross the border , you can go to terminal 2E , then to terminal 1 for your connection . To go from terminal 2 to terminal 1 , you have to take the CDGVal , that appears on the <URL> . Keep in mind that crossing the border may take some time . If your two flights are with different airlines , you will probably have to collect your luggage and check it in again , so that will take even more time .
In August most roads should be open . The condition of any given road can never be guaranteed though . You should consult the website of the <URL> for up to date information about what roads are closed . If you click on the <URL> you 'll see the current state . Most roads are open by now , but its been a cold summer so not quite all of them are open . By the end of August there may be some closures ( most likely due to them being washed out ) but most should remain open . If you are unsure , you can ( while in Iceland ) call 1777 for up-to-date information . Do not try to drive on a closed road . If in doubt , call for information . It is astonishing the number of tourists who ignore road-closed signs and get themselves into serious trouble . You do not need a 4x4 on " normal " roads . If you plan to stay on the primary roads you can get by fine without one . However , you should not go on any roads marked in red on <URL> if you are not driving a 4x4 with good ground clearance . Note that you can drive on regular roads all the way to Vatnajökull , the largest glacier in Europe . Just follow the ring road ( route 1 ) along the southern coast . Ca n't miss it . It is about 4-5 hour drive from Reykjavik , assuming no stops . And there are plenty of interesting places to stop along the way .
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
In addition to other answers , I can think of : A psychological advantage , people who hate flying tend to board late . This somehow makes them feel better . If the plane is not full and you are boarding last , you can sit at any empty seat . Passengers who board early usually sit in their assigned seats to avoid any embarrassments unlike people who board late ( they know there 's few people left ) If you were trying to use some smart ways to be upgraded to B/C or F/C , boarding late is important . If you have an aisle seat ( especially in wide bodied airplane ) boarding late is better to avoid standing and getting out of the way to let people sit . If you are a paranoid person and you are obsessed about gear collapse , boarding late will decrease the chances of facing a gear collapse situation ( gears collapse while the plane is parked , causing the fuselage to hit the ground which might lead to injury ) .
I will only be in London for 2 days and plan to take the tube no more than 2 or 3 times , so it does n't make much sense to buy an oystercard . You can buy single journey paper tickets for the tube , but they strongly discourage it through pricing . I just looked up a zone 1 tube fare and it was # 2.40 on oyster but # 4.90 on a paper ticket . At those prices even if you do n't get your card deposit back ( or you get the visitor card with it 's non-refundable charge ) it does n't take very many journeys for oyster to beat paper tickets . Another option is to use a contactless credit/debit card but if you have a non-UK card beware of foreign transaction fees . Also note that while you can use paper single tickets on the tube you ca n't use them on busses in london . Your only options there are oyster , contactless and travelcards . ( I read there is an activation cost and you wo n't get a full refund if you use it for such a short time ) . There are two types of oyster card . Regular cards and visitor cards . Regular cards have a # 5 refundable deposit , visitor cards have a # 3 non-refundable " activation fee " . The visitor card can only be obtained outside london . Regular cards can be obtained at any tube station . The visitor card comes with a few special offers for london attactions that the regular card does n't but otherwise the cards are much the same . AIUI with cash at a machine you can top up any ammount down to the smallest coins the machine will take while if you pay by card at a machine or pay at a ticket office the minimum top-up is # 5 . Getting the deposit and remaining credit refunded used to require dealing with a manned ticket office but it seems it 's now possible to do it at a ticket machine .
The hotel wo n't mind if you check in and not use any of their services ... less food eaten equals less cost to them . But while you may not want to officially check out as that might cancel the last night you plan to use , it might be good to let the front desk know you may not be sleeping there every night , so they do n't call the police when your room is empty for three nights in a row . But an all inclusive does n't mean you are stuck there , you could use the rooms every night and set out to explore by day ( at your own expense or maybe with one of their activities if it suits your interests ) . You can head out to eat or eat in , no real restrictions . Is it sensible ? Hard to say , without more details . Is the cost of the package deal ( air , lodging , transfers ) less than the cost of just airfare ? Are there other benefits of the package you want to enjoy that you ca n't get on their own ?
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
end question
start question
Why is the train between Barcelona and Madrid so expensive ?
There are political reasons behind this and I believe that this is n't the appropriate website to discuss this . Anyway , you can find cheaper rail and air tickets for the BCN-MAD route . Try with <URL> for instance . This website returns prices for airlines and Renfe trains . I 've tested for you some dates and you can fly for less than 30 euros and go by train for less than 40 euros . For example , on february 21th go by air is 27 euros ( Vueling ) and go by rail is 32 euros ( renfe ) . So , the response is : going by high speed train is very expensive but " slow " train has a reasonable price .
No , no way to walk from Kowloon to Hong Kong island , there are several ferries to cross the harbour , but none of them is free . There is no tunnel you can walk through either , just motor traffic .
I am currently in Skopje in Macedonia and there is a 6am bus to Thessaloniki every Monday , Wednesday and Friday <URL> No trains at the moment .
To clarify things beforehand , liability insurance is not generally needed for bicycling in Lithuania ( to the best of my knowledge ) , but to use the services of Cyclocity Vilnius . <URL> Your responsibility [ ... ] Make sure you have third party liability insurance , which is mandatory in order to use the service . Liability insurance is generally very good to have so my first recommendation would be for you to get one in your home country or country of residence ( you indicate Belarus ) and make sure that the terms &amp; conditions also cover your travel to Vilnius . Otherwise you could try to purchase a liability insurance just for travel . You will likely still be better off with offers from Belarus but you could also try with international providers . The first hit googling for " liability insurance for travel " gives me this ( apparently American , but targeting internationally ) <URL> ( no affiliation ) , I am sure there are many more upon a more thorough search . Alternatively , I found two other providers of bike rental in Vilnius ( they also offer bike tours ) : <URL> <URL> They do not mention need of a liability insurance but be aware that the system is different from Cyclocity ( which is similar to Velib in Paris , i.e. you can drop and take bikes at/from several stations in town ) and you rent a bike e.g. for the day . Finally - though this is not recommended and only my assumption - I do not believe that Cyclocity checks that you do have liability insurance . I would not know how to prove mine , I do not carry around my contract when traveling . And if you do get in trouble , you are in double trouble .
I work in Reading and regularly cycle in the area and also use the station . I can tell you that no such provision exists for secure bicycle storage . The station is a known hotspot for cycle theft so I would not risk leaving a decent bike there . But ... if your bike is n't particularly expensive and does n't stand out you 'll probably be OK . Just remember to follow <URL> .
As noted elsewhere , you can not take the price of a single itinerary on a single route on a single date and make conclusions about rail travel on a single service compared to rail travel on an entire continent . Even if you could , it would not hold . I tried some bookings for 27 February at 0800 . Amtrak 's Acela Express would be $ 78 . SNCF quotes me 70 EUR ( ~ 96 USD ) for Paris to Brussels , DB quotes me 59 EUR ( ~ 81 USD ) for Hamburg to Berlin , and a Hikari train on the Tokaido Shinkansen from Shizuoka to Shinagawa is 6,180 JPY ( ~ 61 USD ) . But on a short trip like this , there is no reason to take the Acela , as the Northeast Regional is almost as fast , and would only cost $ 36 . But Amtrak costs what it does fundamentally because the price of transportation depends on supply and demand . While the balance can be distorted by things like subsidies , the constraints on both explain why a flight from DC to New York costs as much as a flight from DC to Los Angeles , even though it is only one-tenth the distance . And in this respect , Amtrak remains broadly competitive with other modes of transportation along the NEC . Ten years ago I never took Amtrak ; why would I when I could get from Downtown DC to Midtown Manhattan , door to door , within 3 hours , for $ 116 round trip on the Shuttle ? Nowadays , with more rigorous airport security , capacity reductions , higher fuel prices , and transit service cuts among things , I would allot at least 4 1/2 hours and $ 340 . To drive would also take 4-5 hours , and entail almost $ 60 in tolls and $ 50 in gasoline , plus the stress of driving I-95 and the New Jersey Turnpike and then finding parking . So Amtrak offering me a round trip for $ 260 is compelling . ( yes , there is the bus as well , but it 's as uncomfortable as the plane and as slow as Amtrak and as dangerous as driving , so naturally you should expect a discount . ) And while Amtrak does not practice price discrimination as ruthlessly as the airlines do , this may partly explain why your NLC-BOS ticket seems overpriced : they do n't want someone riding NLC-BOS if they can sell the same seat for more profit to a NYP-BOS passenger .
I see that every answer here is going on and on about special , luxury trains . This is specifically what the OP does NOT want . <URL> , trains higher up in the hierarchy are usually costlier . There are some exceptions , such as ' Garib Raths ' where the air-conditioned fares are lower than those of ' Express ' or ' Mail ' trains , but by and large this list shows the hierarchy of trains . Within a specific hierarchy ( such as ' Express ' ) and for a specific fare class such as ' sleeper ' or ' third sleeper ' , the fare is proportional to distance . This implies that for ' regular ' trains , the most expensive fare simply depends upon the distance . This can be found from the list of <URL> .
In Wikipedia there is a <URL> about the relations between Croatia and Serbia For the first time in history , Serbia as an independent country will be represented by its national team against the Croatian team on March 22 , 2013 in qualification group A of the 2014 FIFA World Cup . For the safety of the lives of those attending the next two matches in 2013 , the football federations of Serbia and Croatia will cooperate to ban foreign guests from coming to the stadiums at which the two games will take place . So I think it 's not possible to attend this game . And even if 's allowed , it 's not a good idea . There will be a lot of police , but it will be still dangerous on and around the stadium
While what constitutes a " best " spot is subjective , here are some popular options : <URL> This road is located in Tokyo , between the Gaienmae and Aoyama-Itchome stations . The best time to visit is from mid-november to early december . <URL> <URL> While this doesnt feature only Ginkgo trees , you can enjoy the view in this traditional japanese garden . <URL> <URL> The temple grounds feature many Ginkgo trees , plus you get so visit one of the biggest temples around . <URL> The lesson here is that there are n't many dedicated spots for Ginkgo trees , but they are more or less omnipresent in Japan . Visit during the end of november and you are sure to get your fill of beautiful colors . <URL> <URL>
The latitude is less likely to matter than the time of the month . If it is at or near new moon , you will not see the moon at night . The " wrong side of the plane " reason can be seen as a subset of the " small window " reason , so I would say it is a combination of the small window ( combined with the plane 's orientation ) and the point in the lunar cycle at which you are flying . To improve your chances of seeing the moon in the future , fly during or near the full moon , and , if you have an east-west flight , sit on the port ( left ) side of the plane in the Northern Hemisphere , or the starboard ( right ) side of the plane in the south . If you are flying from west to east , reverse that . The full moon will be lower in the sky near the summer solstice ( late June in the north ; late December in the south ) . It will rise later and set earlier , too . If you try to see the full moon in the winter , near midnight , it is likely to be too high , unless you are very close to the pole . If you are flying a north to south route near the full moon , the moon will be in the east ( to your left ) in the early evening , overhead near midnight , and to the west ( right ) as dawn approaches . Again , if you are flying from south to north , reverse that . To see a dramatic crescent moon , fly a few days after the new moon on a route where you can look west just after sunset . Or , fly a few days before the new moon on a route where you can look east just before sunrise .
This train is cancelled because of political crisis between Russia and Georgia ( as I think , because the route was on rebel territories , and this was definitely done according to the orders from Russian president ) . For now air and automobile connections are started to being reestablished , but not the train . All you can do - use the <URL> ( Sorry , only a Russian site ) - there is no border problem when using it , and there are trains from <URL> to <URL> . Armenia had no borders with Russia , and I do n't think you should use trains to Yerevan . Update : About the old trains . I found <URL> . According to it the <URL> , so for now it is closed , and there is not any chance Russia and Georgia will create a new one in the near future . There was a narrow gauge railway between Tskhinvali and Vladikavkaz , and it is closed now too . Another update : About the rest part of the railroad - yes , you can use it , and for now there is a <URL> between Moscow and <URL> ( the capital of Abkhazia ) , which uses exactly the same railroad .
You can do such trip by " <URL> " company : From Kerch to Poti every Tuesday , at next day you are at Poti . Operations service phone : +38 ( 0482 ) 34-76-63 . According to <URL> , schedule is set at the start of each month , so you should call there before you came in Kerch . Also there is a line Batumi - Ilyichevsk , which is more popular line ( ferry goes each 2-3 days ) , and you have more chances to use it than Poti - Kerch .
By train it 's 21 minutes and currently costs $ 7.70 ( one way ) . You can check the time tables , and even buy tickets online on <URL> . You can also directly choose option when buying Eurostar ticket , which seems to be $ 7.50 surcharge ( for one way ) . How it works : Travelling to other Belgian stations The fares on this page all include travel from Brussels-Midi/Zuid to any Belgian station . That means you can use your Eurostar ticket to travel on any domestic Belgian service * within 24 hours of arriving at Brussels-Midi/Zuid . Please note Any Belgian station tickets can only be booked more than 48 hours prior to travel to allow for printing at home . Otherwise they will only be available for collection from Brussels station . * excludes Thalys and ICE services . Thalys and ICE are international services , not really relevant when going to the Brussels airport .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
Passports are your ID when traveling globally . Driver licenses and national IDs are not always accepted as a form of ID in many countries . As such everyone who needs to verify your identification will ask to see your passport . For flights to the USA , there is often several layers of security employed . The first is a security check before you reach the check in counter , with a number of questions regarding destination , what you might be carrying etc. . They will check your passport . When you check in for the flight , the airline will need to document your identity ( via your passport ) and also if you have the proper visas or permissions to enter the country , as the airline will be fined if they knowingly board you without proper documents . Departing Immigration is only concerned about your visit to their country , they could care less if you are permitted to enter the next destination . At the gate , another layer of the US imposed security will again check your passport , boarding pass and sometimes even look through your carry on bags . They may also ask if you have the necessary documentation to enter the country . Why this last security check ... because you could give your boarding pass to someone else after you have checked in , someone who has less than desirable ideas in mind . And as I mentioned in my comment , it is impossible for any of these people to know all the rules for all the passports that might be presented . Too many rules and exceptions .
Recently came back from the trip . Ganzi is an option for better accomedation ( more options ) , and we did stayed there on the way back from Maun . Unfortunately , it was too far from Gaborone for us ( 670 Km ) , and added another 100 Km to the trip . We did found a place to stay in closer to the middle : Kang village which is 420 Km from Gaborone and about 400 Km from the Namibian border post . There are several guest houses and one <URL> , fueling station and convenience store . The second night we stayed across the Namibian border in <URL> .
The ITA Matrix software was developed by MIT engineers . <URL> ( as well as other <URL> ) . Quoting from <URL> : In the mid-nineties , a group of MIT computer scientists took aim at a complex computing challenge that had plagued the travel industry for three decades : how to quickly , consistently and accurately identify the best available airfares without relying on high-cost , low-efficiency mainframe computers . The results of their work was a revolutionary airfare pricing &amp; shopping engine called QPX . The beta version of QPX was first introduced to the public in November 1999 , and Orbitz became the first customer in 2001 . On April 12 , 2011 , Google acquired ITA Software , and shortly thereafter launched Google Flight Search , an incredibly fast and easy way to search and plan travel . So the Matrix is n't better nor worse than Google flights , since the former relies on the latter when looking for flights . It 's just a matter of using one tool versus the other . Personally I stick with the Matrix because I 've grown fond of the interface . The main feature difference would be that you can purchase some plane tickets via Google Flights , whereas the Matrix itself does not allow you to do so . Moreover , the ITA Matrix seems to give you many more search options than Google Flights . Finally , Google Flights , being a Google product , will integrate with other Google products whereas the " pure " Matrix might not always .
First Class on the TGV means a wider seat , power sockets , less people ( so a generally quieter environment ) , and that 's about it . Standard Premier on the Eurostar is pretty much the same , except you get a small cold dish and a cold alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverage . The difference in price is more due to demand than the actual cost of the service . Whether it 's worth it is up to you . The choice is not between Eurostar Standard Premier and TGV First Class , the choice is between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier . If the price difference between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier is small enough to you that it 's worth it to spend those two hours with more space , a power socket , and a small free meal , then go for it . note : carriages 5 &amp; 14 have power sockets on the Eurostar , so if you book a seat in one of those and buy yourself a nice meal from M&amp;S to take on the train , the difference comes down only to the difference in seat size .
There are 67,000 people in the TSA , and an <URL> to do the job instead , so some variance will be inevitable . In your particular case , it sounds like either you 've been going through the <URL> at OAK , or they 're confused/lazy/running a quiet trial and applying the Precheck rules to all passengers : TSA Precheck allows passengers who have been pre-approved to keep on their shoes and belt , not remove their jackets , keep their laptops inside their cases , and not have to remove select liquids and gels from their bags . Full-body scanners are not mandatory and are in fact <URL> from all airports because ( shh ) they did n't work .
You may have to change buses once or twice . After all , these are in two different countries . The website you cite has connections between Torres del Paine and Puerto Natales as well as Puerto Natales and El Calafate in Argentina . <URL> in the Los Glaciares park are frequent . However , you can get more direct transportation via the small <URL> you find everywhere in these towns . Especially in El Calafate I saw many of them advertising tours to Los Glaciares and Torres del Paine , as well as packages including both . Since ( judging from your other question ) you 'll be flying out of El Calafate , it makes sense to have that as your " base camp " and make multi-day trips from there to El Chalten and Torres del Paine . Keep in mind : this is South America . They do n't have everything organized perfectly , but they make up for it in flexibility . If you have multiple people wanting to make a specific trip for which there is no official bus schedule , they 'll just find some guy with a minibus to take you there . Some more advice ( I just travelled the region using a rental car in November ) : Arrange accomodation in Torres del Paine in advance if you 're not camping . It will be expensive . Do n't make too tight a schedule - leave room for the unexpected . We experienced a fuel shortage in the Argentinian parts caused by strikes and were lucky not to get stranded for a day or two . The direct road from Purto Natales to the southern entrance of Torres del Paine at Rio Serrano is being repaired and paved , so this summer the only access is via the much longer road to the north entrance , which is especially annoying if your accomodation is at Rio Serrano
end question
start question
Why are shops closed at 6pm in Wolverhampton city centre ?
It 's fairly normal in many parts of Europe that regular non-entertainment , non-tourist oriented shops keep regular business hours and do n't open in the evening . This is especially true of smaller shops . The historical , economic and social reason is simple - shop-workers like to have a life . They do n't want to work evenings any more than you do , and most shop owners do n't want to pay staff to work evenings unless there is the trade to support it . Europeans have n't bought into the idea that ' shopping is entertainment ' , or that everyone should be able to buy plumbing supplies at 2am . it is n't a hard and fast rule . The bigger the city , and the bigger the store , the more likely it is to be open later . You will almost always find a big grocery store that opens well into the evening , and often bigger department stores on the outskirts of the town open late too . But smaller stores in the centre of town usually do n't . Restaurants , pubs , clubs etc. do of course open late . For essential services like a pharmacy there is usually one that is open late in most towns , on a rotating basis .
The simple answer is that it 's because the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) - the global organisation that is responsible for settings standards for passports - recommends that they should be valid for no more than 10 years . For example , the ICAO " <URL> " states that : Passport Validity Period [ ... ] Recommended Practice 3.16 - Contracting States should normally provide that such passports be valid for a period of at least five years ... Note 1 -- In consideration of the limited durability of documents and the changing appearance of the passport holder over time , a validity period of not more than ten years is recommended Of course the question then becomes why does ICAO have such a requirement ! In addition to the obvious reason that the biometric data on the passport ( at a minimum , the photo ) will be out of date after a period of time , the primary reason for expiring passports is likely to be that it allows the underlying technology to change without there being too many legacy passports in circulation . For example , most countries started implementing " Machine Readable Passports " in the 1980 's . Given a maximum expiry of 10 years , that meant that by the year 2000 it could be guaranteed that people from most countries had an MRP , and thus countries could start to enforce their use - such as how the US did in the mid-2000 's . If passports had a 20 + year expiry , then even today there would n't be a guarantee that people would have MRPs . The same is true for " electronic " passports . For example , Australia started issuing these in 2005 , which means by the end of 2015 countries will be able to enforce that Australian passports must be electronic . Expiring passports also reduces the number of stolen/forged/etc passports in circulation - both due to the expiry of those that are in circulation , but also by enforcing newer anti-forgery standards for new passports .
According to Lonely Planet , a Taxi in Bulgaria costs around 0.70 lv per minute at night in Sofia " The rates per kilometre may range enormously from one taxi company to another , but the standard rate is 0.59 lv per minute in the daytime , 0.70 lv per minute at night . " In Romania it should not be more than 2lei/kilometre ( http://www.lonelyplanet.com/thorntree/thread.jspa?threadID=1883761 ) Assuming that it takes 8 minutes to drive 5 kilometer ( assuming an average speed of ~ 37.5 km/h ) , it should you cost not more than 5.60 lv ( 2.80 Euro ) , respectively 10 lei ( 2.40 Euro ) . So I would say 3 Euros should be way enough even if it is more expensive when it is necessary to cross a border in a taxi .
Even though the people who walk past are unlikely to be want to buy a suitcase right now , they are still the target demographic . How many other locations are there in a city where you can open a store where 100 % of the people that walk past are people that travel by air , and thus the type of people that will be in the market for your products ? How many non-airport locations around an area like the San Francisco Bay Area would you need to open a store in order to pretty much guarantee that every person who flies internationally at least once a year walks in front of your store ? A dozen ? A few dozen ? How about if you do it in an airport ? Perhaps 2 ? ( eg , SFO has 2 international terminals ) . Some of the luggage shops you find in airports are for a particular brand . eg , there is a Tumi store in Newark airport . Even if that store was to never actually sell a single piece of luggage , they are building their brand and allowing people to see and try their product range before going home and ordering the same pieces from their website or from another store - all of which works in their favor . The remainder of the stores generally sell high-end luggage which they would likely be able to ship to a home location if someone purchased something and was unable to take it with them or collect on their return trip . At the end of the day , do n't think of these as luggage stores , just think of them as high-end retail , marketing to a demographic that frequents airports ( high wealth/travelers ) .
I always thought it was to avoid breathing too much pollution or avoid catching diseases from other people . In fact it 's the other way around . My Japanese friend always wears one when she has a cold because she does n't want to infect other people !
I 'm not aware of any official statistics but as far as I remember it took me about 30 minutes . The airport is small and did n't look very busy but I arrived at 2:00 am so I 'm not quite sure if it 's going to be more crowded during daytime . You need to compile an entry paper and pay a fee ( about $ 50 now for a single entry ) .
According to <URL> , For most resorts , the ski and snowboard season in Japan generally starts around mid-December and goes through until around early April . Opening of course depends on the level of snow that accumulates at a particular resort , and some resorts do actually open as early as late October ( " early skiing " ) and can continue to operate until mid-May ( for " spring skiing " ) , usually with the help of snowmaking machines . They <URL> 88 resorts in Nagano so you could use that as a starting point to find resort web sites for more details and predictions about this year . I know that Canadian resorts will have a planned opening date on their website before they are actually open .
<URL> If you select Terminal 2 International and click on each one of the shops listed , you 'll see that a few of them are found before security . These are : Jaya He Museum Store Jaya He Museum Store offers exquisite art , craft and design based collectibles made by renowned and upcoming artists of India . Pick exquisite art and craft forms in contemporary styles inspired by the Jaya He GVK New Museum at T2 . The Museum store also feature an exhibition outlet selling real time works of celebrated artists in the original form as well as product adaptations . Location : Departures , Level 4 Kama Ayurveda Browse through Kama Ayurveda 's treatment based and Internationally acclaimed holistic solutions for the skin , hair and body made with pure , natural and organic ingredients . Location : Terminal 2 , Level 3 , South-west pier , International Departures Xpress Xpress is a one-stop airport shop for a wide assortment of books &amp; magazines , choicest Indian snacks , beverages , gift items , toys and daily essentials . Stopover to pick up a few essentials before you board . Location : Level 4 , International Departures , Before Security Check Level 2 , International to Domestic Transfer Area Level 3 , International Departures , After Security Check , South West Pier I 'm not sure what means , but there might even be a pharmacy available at Terminal 2 : Apollo Pharmacy Forgot first aid for the long trip ? Headache ? Tummy trouble ? Head to the Apollo Pharmacy for all your medical needs . Location : Departures - Opposite Security Check Area - 1 I 'll let you search for available shops in the remaining terminals .
A close proxy for " most religions " that is much more easily measured will be what is called a " Global City , " and Wikipedia happens to have <URL> . The criteria used in determining their ranking are : A variety of international financial services , notably in finance , insurance , real estate , banking , accountancy , and marketing Headquarters of several multinational corporations The existence of financial headquarters , a stock exchange and major financial institutions Domination of the trade and economy of a large surrounding area Major manufacturing centres with port and container facilities Considerable decision-making power on a daily basis and at a global level Centres of new ideas and innovation in business , economics , culture and politics Centres of media and communications for global networks Dominance of the national region with great international significance High percentage of residents employed in the services sector and information sector High-quality educational institutions , including renowned universities , international student attendance [ 8 ] and research facilities Multi-functional infrastructure offering some of the best legal , medical and entertainment facilities in the country Now clearly not all of these criteria will directly correlate to cultural ( and therefore religious ) diversity , but it 's a close proxy . And rounding out the top of their list , with Alpha + + rating are : London , UK New York City , USA The cities with Alpha + rating are : Hong Kong Paris , France Singapore Shanghai , China Tokyo , Japan Beijing , China Sydney , Australia Dubai , United Arab Emirates Now , you 'll want to apply your own filter to this list , as various religions have different legal statuses in some of these places . But this list should be a good place to start looking for culturally-diverse cities you might want to visit .
New Years day is a <URL> . So yes , many places will be closed . Indeed , many shops stay closed until the 6th , with winter sales starting again on the 7th of January . This is reflected in a post on <URL> : Restaraunt wise we were amazed at how many closed over New Year . I expected some would be closed on the 1st but some were closed from the 31st till the 6th ! We did struggle to find a place to eat a couple of times and ended up having to go to one of the numerous self service restaurants which are fine but not exactly what we were looking for on holiday . and this recommendation on the same page : I live in Milan and I personally do not reccomend to spend the new year in the city . Basically there is nothing to do . Milan people usually go out of the city for new year 's eve : to ski , on the lake , in the coutryside , to visit other cities . The situation is different in the other Italian cities , like Rome or Florence . Of course many restaurant and clubs are closed , maybe is the worste day to see Milan . So long story short ( unless you have specific sites in mind , in which case I 'd check their individual websites ) , in general a lot of stuff is closed during this holiday period .
Although nowhere near as ubiquitous as in the US , coffee shops are relatively common in major Thai cities , especially those with high tourist numbers ( eg , Bangkok , Chang Mai ) . In addition to over 100 Starbucks stores around the country you 'll also find countless McDonalds , many of which have " McCafe " and - depending on the area - many western style coffee shops serving your choice of various forms of espresso and drip coffees . When ordering it 's worth making sure that you 're getting what you think you are . " Cappuccino " does n't vary around the world as much as some other drinks , but there are slight variations between countries ( and often between shops in the same counties ! ) . Starbucks has the edge here in that they will almost always make the US version of a drink regardless of what country you 're in . Expect to pay about the same as what you would in the US , which means that your morning coffee could well be the most expensive thing you buy all day !
I do n't find any relevant EU regulation at the moment and the practice may even be based on national law , but the purpose is to determine if the purchase is subject to VAT or other taxes . At least in Germany , purchases from shops in international airport terminals are not subject to VAT if the customer is a foreigner ( not German citizen ) and is bringing the items to a destination outside the EU ( <URL> ) . Hence in Germany , the shops usually ask for both passport or id and the boarding card . Restaurants and bars usually do n't care , since their products are intended for immediate consumption ( not for export ) and hence are subject to VAT even if you e.g. are a foreigner and intend to travel outside the EU .
Generally shopping malls in Taipei open by 11 AM but other shops open by 10am . It says here : <URL> Working hours department and other stores are 10:00 -9:30 pm ( some stores upto 22h ) This page says <URL> Shops are open daily 1000-2200 , while night markets stay open till 0100 and convenience shops are open 24 hours . As for shopping markets , including <URL> ( boai road ) , you can see here : <URL> <URL>
What you 're describing is called an " Open Jaw " ticket , and there 's a very simple rule for determining if it applies or not . Lets say you 're flying A-B and then C-A . There 's 3 distances involved here - A-B , B-C ( ie , the overland segment ) and C-A . For a ticket to be a valid " open jaw " , the distance B-C needs to be shorter than both A-B and C-A . eg , SFO-STL ( 1735 miles ) and ORD-SFO ( 1846 miles ) is a valid open jaw as the distance between the two cities is 258 miles , which is less than both of the flown legs . SFO-LAS ( 414 miles ) and DEN-SFO ( 967 miles ) is NOT a valid open jaw routing , as the distance between LAS and DEN is 628 miles , which is greater than one of the flown legs . For US domestic flights , it often does n't matter if it 's a valid open jaw or not . Many domestic flights are sold on a " one-way " basis , so it does n't matter if your flights are a valid open jaw or not - or even if they are purchased on the same ticket or not - they will cost the same as in effect you 're just paying for 2 one-way fares . Some fares do specify that they are only available for return or open-jaw , and that 's when these rules do come into play . For international flights , open jaw can make a huge difference to fares , as most cheap fares are not available one-way , they are only available as part of a return or open jaw ticket .
Yes you could I guess but I am not sure I would do it , for two reasons : Timing I made a quick ideal case scenario : <URL> <URL> your time in the city 30min back to the airport by train 1h again at the airport 30min last call for boarding before departure time which leaves you with ca. 2h by my calculations to see the city . However that was a best-case scenario and your calculation could go wrong at any time above : delays of your incoming flight queues at immigration and/or security questions at immigration once the tracks where blocked on my train into the city and I waited 30min on the train stopped at a station before resorting to alternative means get lost in Frankfurt I am a fairly risk-averse person and honestly would not do it unless I had an important errand to run and could fall back on taking a taxi back in case , but this is up for your judgement . If you do go , plan ahead every detail , i.e. what terminal you arrive , how to get into town , where to get off , where to walk around , when and how to get back , ... Attractiveness Personally I do n't find Frankfurt that attractive for a visit and if I had a friend come to Germany and could show them only one place , it would be among the last to come to my mind , but hey , you might have only this chance to see Germany and it is better than nothing . Have a look at <URL> beforehand and plan how to get around . Alternatively , sometimes ( and only sometimes ) you get pretty good views of the " skyline " at take-off and landing , <URL> .
Airlines have a pricing strategy known as " yield management " or " revenue management " - they charge less for some seats than others , and expect these seats to be bought a long time in advance . They know that only a certain percentage of their customers are able to buy seats well in advance , and that those customers would n't fly if they could n't get inexpensive seats . A speculator could buy a $ 100 ticket and then offer it on eBay close to the flight date for $ 200 . If more than half the seats this speculator bought were sold this way , the speculator would be making money . But the airline , which wants to sell seats close to the flight date for $ 500 , would not . In fact very quickly the speculator enjoying selling 75 % of tickets for $ 200 would see it fall to 0 % because of another speculator selling them for $ 150 , and then later another for $ 110 and so on . This is just how reselling markets tend to work . By insisting that a ticket is not a commodity to be bought , traded , resold , and passed around from hand to hand , the airline is able to keep its complicated pricing structure in place . Overall , this is a good thing , because those last-minute high-price tickets cover a LOT of the cost of the flight - their existence is what keeps the long-advance-notice tickets so cheap !
Welcome to the wonderful world of airline pricing ! Exactly how trips are priced will depend on a number of factors including the airline and the exact time you 're flying , but as a generic answer ... Flights are normally prices on a per-leg basis , and then the price for each leg is combined to make up the total trip price . When you fly a round-trip , the prices for each leg will often be cheaper than if you just buy a one-way ticket . Open-jaw trips are normally priced at the same price ( per leg ) as round-trip trips , so normally you 'd expect the overall prices to be similar for a round-trip as they are for a open-jaw . So , when you buy NYC - > ABC and DEF - > NYC , it 's fairly simple - it 'll be the round-trip/open-jaw price for each of those legs combined . However if you buy NYC - > ABC , ABC - > DEF , DEF - > NYC there 's a number of ways it could be priced . The obvious way is that the prices for each of those three legs could be calculated and added together . This is normally referred to as a " circle fare " , and obviously it is always going to be more than paying for the open-jaw as it 's basically the open-jaw plus an extra flight . However , it could also be priced as NYC-ABC , ABC-NYC with a stopover at DEF . Or as NYC-DEF with a stopover at ABC , and DEF-NYC . Picking the first of these an as example ( NYC-ABC , ABC-NYC with a stopover in DEF ) , you 're now no longer purchasing a ticket to DEF , but a return trip NYC-ABC . If flights to ABC are cheaper than DEF - which they could be for any reason including more competition on that flight , a sale on at the moment , etc , then you 're obviously going to pay less . Some airlines will charge you a little more for a stopover along the way whilst some will allow a single stopover for free - but even if you have to pay for it it 's generally going to be cheap . Most good travel booking websites will automatically look at the options available and work out the cheapest option for you . ie , they will compare the prices for the circle-fare option , the NYC-ABC return with a stopover , and the NYC-DEF return with a stopover options and then allow you to book the cheapest of the 3 . As an similar example , I recently had to book a ticket SFO-LHR which was going to cost around $ 1200 . However I decided that I wanted to spend a few days in Istanbul on the way back , so I decided to try and book SFO-LHR-IST-SFO ( with multiple days in both LHR and IST ) . You would expect that this would cost more , as clearly it 's a much longer flight , however it actually cost only $ 1000 - cheaper that the direct option . The reason was that it actually priced out as being SFO-IST , IST-SFO . ie , technically I bought a round-trip ticket to Istanbul , and just happened to have a stopover in London on the way . Airfares to Istanbul at the time were cheaper than airfares to London , so even after paying ~ $ 100 extra to have a " stopover " in London , it still came out $ 200 cheaper !
I suspect this is a result of Jet streams . This is most commonly observed by different flight times between the same cities . It generally takes longer ( 25 % or so ) to fly from Europe to the U.S. than from the U.S. to Europe . This is because the high-altitude jet streams across the Atlantic blow from west to east , providing a boost in one direction , and a penalty in the other . You can read a bit more about it <URL> , as well as many other places on google . The jet stream will either improve fuel efficiency and flight time , or hurt it , depending on whether the aircraft is flying with or against the wind . To help compensate for jet streams , routes are often altered one way or the other , to provide for the most efficient travel . This can lead to drastically different miles flown , as well . On aircraft equipped with flight status monitors , you may notice the discrepancy between two flights . Unfortunately , I doubt this will ever affect your frequent flier miles :) This would easily explain a difference in carbon emissions .
' Expensive ' is relative . That said , a quick search on <URL> saw me get prices for under 500 euros for ten days . Still not very pleasant , but better than 1100 euros . Your question is really asking why Iceland is so expensive , as the relatively high cost of things in Iceland is not limited to just car rentals . Numbeo shows that the cost of living <URL> is about 30 % higher than <URL> . In addition , the cost of getting a car to Iceland and maintaining a car in Iceland will be significantly higher than doing the same on the European mainland : cars need to be shipped farther , in small numbers and suffer from much more corrosive weather . Furthermore , because it 's not as likely that small cars are too usable in Iceland , outside of the city , because weather and road conditions can be quite harsh , it 's more likely that the smallest models available in the Netherlands will not be available in Iceland . So , based on the above points , it would be reasonable to expect the cost of renting a car in Iceland to be significantly higher .
There 's <URL> , so flying business or having status does n't make any difference . There are up to 5 scanning stations , and they do tend to open all of them at busy times . Most people travelling through City Airport are regular travellers , so know how to prepare for security , and consequently things tend to move pretty quickly . I would say that 20 minutes is cutting it rather fine , especially if you do n't know the airport well . You 'll need to allow 2-3 minutes from DLR to checkin , then a minute or two to print a boarding pass ( longer if checking luggage ) , then 1-2 minutes minimum from checkin upstairs to security . Even assuming no-one ahead of you , you 've then got probably 2 minutes to unpack / security / wait for bags / repack , then walk to the gate . It 's not unheard of for a BA flight to begin boarding before checkin closes , so if you cut it that fine you may struggle to find somewhere nearby in the overhead racks ! If you 're after anecdotes , you 'll find a lot in <URL> <URL> FlyerTalk BAEC threads on LCY security . Personally , I 'd not want to cut it finer than 30 minutes at LCY . There are decent places to eat and drink before and after security , and free wifi throughout the airport , so getting in with a bit more time to spare is n't the end of the world . If you 're aiming for 20 minutes and the DLR has a tiny hiccup you 're stuffed , so best not risk it !
end question
start question
Are swimming costumes required for hot springs in New Zealand ?
Japanese-themed and Japanese-operated <URL> on the spine of the South Island has a Japanese-style public bathhouse where swimwear is optional : Pretty much everywhere else , including the outdoor area at Maruia itself , swimwear is required .
You can see this in the <URL> or on any map with the <URL> . The first place to see a new day is the <URL> , more precisely the part that belongs to <URL> ( formerly known as the Gilbert Islands ) . The Line Islands are in the UTC +14 timezone , and the rest of the country is in UTC +13 . This has been the case since 1995 ; before that , the country straddled the date line . The Line Islands saw some first-to-new-millennium tourism in 2000 . Since today , 31 December 2011 , there is another territory in the UTC +14 timezone : <URL> , a dependency of New Zealand . Together with the independent country of <URL> ( UTC +13 ) , <URL> to move from the western hemisphere to the eastern hemisphere , in order to match weekdays with the other countries in Oceania . There is one more country at UTC +13 : <URL> . Most other Pacific nations are in UTC +10 to UTC +12 . And if you want to be the last to cross the line , there are formally a few places at UTC-12 , but they are uninhabited <URL> . In UTC-11 are more US Minor Outlying Islands , <URL> and the New Zealand dependency of <URL> ( as long as it does n't follow Tokelau 's example ) .
Not with kids of my own and it being a while since I was that age , I 'll leave it to you to decide , but <URL> lists several childrens ' attractions in the city : Audubon Zoo ( Audubon &amp; University District ) Aquarium of the Americas ( French Quarter ) Louisiana Childrens ' Museum ( Central Business District ) Storyland Amusement Park , City Park ( Mid-City ) Streetcar rides -- many children from cities without trams find riding on an old streetcar an interesting novelty in itself -- and parents can enjoy the scenery and historic architecture . I can attest to finding Melbourne , Australia and Christchurch , New Zealand 's trams to be quite the novelty when I was younger . When I was older too , but that was when we hired the tram out for company drinks :)
After about 30 minutes of searching , I 've finally tracked it down ! Possibly someone in the NC government needs to spend some time on the <URL> ;-) The official details are available on <URL> and are : 2 litres de vins tranquilles ET 1 litre de boisson titrant plus de 22 ° OU 2 litres de boissons titrant 22 ° ou moins Which in English is either : 2 litres of still wine and 1 litre of spirits of more than 22 % or 2 litres of spirits of 22 % or less
Even if you 're with a tour group , you almost all enter at the same point , and will be buying tickets at the gate . It 's important to note that while there 's generally a few thousand a day at Machu Picchu , they severely restrict the numbers each day for Huayana Picchu . So if you want one of those ( 2x200 I believe ) , you need to make sure you 're on the first bus up there , or speak to your tour guide about getting there early . Fight for it if you have to - it 's totally worth it . As @Itai says , it 's steep , and take insect repellent ( never been bitten so much in my life ) but the view from the top is totally worth the climb :)
Wikipedia gives the reason <URL> . The Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument make provision for requiring passengers disembarking or embarking in the United Kingdom , or any class of such passengers , to produce to an immigration officer , if so required , landing or embarkation cards in such form as the Secretary of State may direct , and for requiring the owners or agents of ships and aircraft to supply such cards to those passengers . Hence the reason at the moment is that it 's the law , though the form of providing the information could be modified by statutory instrument at any time . The US did something similar with their I-94 forms a few years ago and made them all electronic . However , you still have to fill in a customs form when entering the US so it makes little difference unless you have Global Entry or use the mobile passport application . You can read the whole act <URL> and the specific section to do with landing cards <URL> . The purpose of them was explained in a freedom of information <URL> : Landing cards fulfil the following functions : to provide statistical information for use both inside and outside the department ; to provide a record of the arrival in the UK of persons subject to control ; and To enable the immigration officer to record what a passenger has said to him/her on his arrival , the circumstances which led to the granting of leave to enter and any information which may be useful to caseworkers if the passenger subsequently applies for an extension of stay .
I have n't done a Times Square New Year 's Eve in over a decade , but I 'd say if you can manage changing trains at 42nd Street during rush hour , it 's no great challenge . Compared to most American cities ( if not , say , Mumbai ) , New York City is an " unyielding crush of humanity " on any ordinary day . The sidewalks are crowded , the subways are crowded , the stores are crowded . The good news is that on account of this , New Yorkers are quite accustomed to negotiating crowds wherever they go . You find others in the crowd going the same direction as you are and go with that flow rather than trying to move against it on your own ... or you learn to push and be pushed a little . That 's how the stereotypical New Yorker is , to this day , always rushing around town from appointment to appointment -- not working endlessly at the office like a Tokyoite or on the mobile phone stuck in traffic like an Angeleno . New Year 's Eve is the biggest party day , but there are other big parties like St. Patrick 's Day , not to mention dozens of parade days , street festival days , game days , and other excuses to congregate in public areas . Inside Times Square or wherever the main event is , people will be shoulder to shoulder , but in the area beyond only an extreme agoraphobe would be unable to move about . Road travel is tougher , as surrounding streets may be closed during special events and it may be hard to find a taxi , but that 's true of any city . If you find a group of immobile tourists on New Year 's Eve in Manhattan , it 's probably the cold . People seem to underestimate how cold it gets , since the tall buildings both block out the sun and channel stiff winds .
There are restrictions on importing left hand drive vehicles into New Zealand . It is unlikely that you would be able to purchase a new caravan overseas and successfully import it . From <URL> : Are there restrictions on LHD vehicles ? Yes . Most left-hand drive vehicles have to be converted to right-hand drive ( RHD ) before they can be driven on New Zealand roads . For modern vehicles , this is either very expensive or impractical -- especially if the vehicle has a modern frontal impact protection system ( eg airbags and crumple zones ) . The only vehicles that can be registered as LHD and driven on New Zealand roads are those that belong to one of the specific categories of LHD that are permitted by law . Before going to the expense of importing a LHD vehicle , you should check very carefully that your vehicle is either belongs to one of the permitted categories or is capable of being converted to RHD . Otherwise , you may find it impossible to use the vehicle on New Zealand roads . Additionally , New Zealand Customs has an information page on <URL> . There are concessions on taxes for residents importing certain vehicles , which would imply that non-residents may still be permitted to import such vehicles but are not eligible for the concessions . <URL> indicates that motorhomes attract both 15 % GST plus an additional 10 % duty . If you intend to take your vehicle with you when you leave , Customs states : Temporary entry -- tourist motor vehicles If you are a tourist you may import a motor vehicle into New Zealand without payment of Customs charges , provided your intention is to take the vehicle out of New Zealand at the conclusion of your visit . However , even in this case you would still be required to properly register the vehicle with NZTA for use on New Zealand roads . You would almost certainly be better off buying a ( used ? ) caravan in New Zealand and selling it when you are done . This will likely be considerably less expensive and time-consuming than attempting to import a vehicle . ( Even if you were to successfully import a vehicle , you may not be able to use it for weeks or months as it passes through customs , biosecurity , licensing paperwork , and so on . )
The relevant law is California Vehicle Code § 12502 and § 12505 . According to § 12502 , ( a ) The following persons may operate a motor vehicle in this state without obtaining a driver 's license under this code : 1 . A nonresident over the age of 18 years having in his or her immediate possession a valid driver 's license issued by a foreign jurisdiction of which he or she is a resident , except as provided in Section 12505 . 2 . ... According to § 12505 , [ ... ] residency shall be determined as a person 's state of domicile . " State of domicile " means the state where a person has his or her true , fixed , and permanent home and principal residence and to which he or she has manifested the intention of returning whenever he or she is absent . Prima facie evidence of residency for driver 's licensing purposes includes , but is not limited to , the following : ( A ) Address where registered to vote . ( B ) Payment of resident tuition at a public institution of higher education . ( C ) Filing a homeowner 's property tax exemption . ( D ) Other acts , occurrences , or events that indicate presence in the state is more than temporary or transient . [ ... ] ( c ) Any person entitled to an exemption under Section 12502 , 12503 , or 12504 may operate a motor vehicle in this state for not to exceed 10 days from the date he or she establishes residence in this state What that all means is that , yes , if you have in your possession a driver 's license issued by your country of residence , and it legally allows you to operate a motorcycle , you can use that foreign driver 's license in California to operate a motorcycle . There is also a decent writeup by not a lawyer at <URL>
Visitors to Jamaica must have a yellow fever vaccination ( and accompanying proof ) if they 've arriving from a yellow fever prone country . Other than that there are plenty of recommended vaccinations but none required . <URL> <URL>
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
Tattoos or <URL> as they are called in Japanese were criminalized in the beginning of the Meiji period ( some time after 1868 ) as a way to make a good impression on the west . ( A bit ironic in this case ... ) It was legalized again after the war in 1948 but still retains its image of criminality . For many years , traditional Japanese tattoos were associated with the yakuza , Japan 's notorious mafia , and many businesses in Japan ( such as public baths , fitness centers and hot springs ) still ban customers with tattoos . ( from wikipedias <URL> article )
There 's a link as provided in the comments about <URL> . The requirements to apply for a work visa are : Labour contract with the company or institution in Argentina Birth certificate , translated into Spanish by a certified translator Marital certification , translated into Spanish by a certified translator ( if an application is being made for a spouse ) Passport with a minimum validity of 18 months remaining ( for each family member ) 3 passport photo 's for each family member ( 4x4 ; preferably light blue background ; 3/4 profile right side ) The most common types of work visas are : Article 29 ( e ) visas -- This visa is a short term visa and is issued for short term work in Argentina . The initial validity is of 15 days and can be extended for another 15 days once in Argentina . Article 15 ( E ) visa ( Labour Contract -- Temporary Residence Visa ) -- This visa is issued for employees and people on internships contracted by companies in Argentina . The minimum duration is 6 -- 12 months . You will be treated as a local employee that means a CUIL has to be applied for as well . A formal labour contract between the company in Argentina and the employee is required in order to obtain the visa . Article 15 ( E ) visa ( Secondment -- Temporary Residence Visa ) under provision 18/94 -- This visa is issued to employees send abroad by their company for at least 6 -- 12 months . A labour contract is not required Notes : Persons having a contract with an Argentinean company or institution also have to sign an employment agreement in the presence of the consul ( there is usually a supplementary charge for this made by the consulate ) Persons sent to Argentina by foreign companies have to sign their labour agreement at the corresponding company . Spouses and children of applicants of a temporary working permit that want a permit to live in Argentina have to show proof of the family ties . This can be done by means of a marriage certificate and/or birth certificates at an international form . Once employees arrive in Argentina , they also need to apply for a DNI / National Identity Document and a CUIL / Unique Code for Work Identification .
DB treats the Railjet as an IC/EC train , no supplement is required . While travel to Salzburg is basically treated as domestic German travel , even if you were traveling in Austria , the ÖBB does n't distinguish ticketing between train classes except for in extremely discounted regional tickets ( Einfach Raus Ticket can only be used on S , R , REX , ... ) , supplements do n't exist in Austria . ( In regards to " are all [ international ] train tickets valid " the answer is no . Although your ticket is valid , there are a number of tickets that are either tied to a specific train / departure time or limited to regional trains . )
There 's a more in-depth article on Wikipedia -- the <URL> . However , the downside for you here is that while English was one of the three main languages until 1853 , there was then a concerted effort afterwards to wipe it out . The closest lexically was Bislama , although the words were different , so that might be an ' easier ' one to learn if you wanted to learn some phrases in a non-European language , however , realistically , French is going to be your best bet here , it would appear . However as you 've no doubt noticed in your travels , even in places where you would n't expect it , people quite often know some English ' unofficially ' , and you may be surprised . It 's also surprisingly easy and fun sometimes to communicate without words ;) Indeed , according to <URL> , if you 're in Noumea , you may in fact be ok : The official language is French , and it is difficult to find English speakers outside of Noumea . In Noumea , French , English , and Japanese are widely spoken at hotels , restaurants , and shops . To enjoy a place like this , you should really endeavor to learn some French .
Arguably , no . What if you do n't have an address ? What if you 've just moved back ? <URL> and assume you 're staying somewhere - and as a result , hotel addresses are acceptable . So if you wanted to legally dodge it without any possible problems , book a night at a hostel , and use that hostel 's address on the form . As for refusing , I 've seen people try , and it does n't work . The border guys want an address . However , it 's just process - I 've seen one backpacker literally turn and ask anyone behind in the queue if they know the address of a hotel , and someone named the one from Pretty Woman on Rodeo Drive . So he wrote that in , and handed it to the border guard , who shrugged , stamped , and completed the process .
You 're <URL> to pass Canadian customs , so no need to pick up and recheck your bag , they 'll be <URL> to New York . However you do need to pass the immigration requirements to transit through Canada . Assuming you have a Dutch passport , you <URL> . After that , you have to pass American immigration officials ( because of pre-clearance at Pearson , but this means you 've already done immigration once you arrive in NY ! ) then security once more . Phew ! Sounds like a lot , but in practice this should n't take very long
ATMs at the airport are numerous and easy to find . In Thailand , ATMs give you a better exchange rate than changing cash , especially for less-popular currencies like NZD . However , you need to be aware of the fees your home bank may charge ( fixed fee + percent commission ) . On top of this , almost all ATMs in Thailand charge an additional 150 THB fee for international transactions , so it 's better to withdraw larger amounts . Citibank ATMs near Asoke/Sukhumwit BTS Skytrain station do not charge the 150 baht fee ( as of Jan 2012 ) . Second best is probably changing cash to THB in Thailand . Rates at the Bangkok airport are reasonable , but some places in the city offer better rates . Exchange rates for THB in your home country are probably significantly worse than in Thailand ( due to currency export controls ) .
I was there last month , and while there 's no additional student discount , every traveller ( pretty much ) in the hostel used a 7 day Metro Card , for $ 30 ( plus a $ 1 activation fee for the card ) . This and other options ( hop-on/hop-off bus ) for you to look at are available on the <URL> . It was honestly the most convenient option . The subway goes almost anywhere you could possibly want to go as a tourist in that time ( I also stayed five days ) , and considering the price of a single journey , it 's well worth getting .
According to the <URL> , they recommend MMR , DPT , polio , Hep A/B , Typhoid and Japanese encephalitis Also Malaria meds are recommended . That being said , I 've lived in SE Asia and travelled around with only MMR , DPT , polio and the Heps . A lot of people swear by Malaria meds , but every time I take them , I feel horrible and ca n't really do anything so I generally skip them . I would strongly recommend Japanese encephalitis though , it is currently rated at endemic and is seen even in Bangkok . Hep A/B are rated at a low threat in Thailand , but they are generally good immunizations anyway . MMR , DPT , polio are considered standard for international travel , and are highly recommended . Typhoid is rated as a threat in rural areas . I 'm not sure of the rates in cities .
end question
start question
Which embassy/consulate to contact when you need consular support for a family where the parents have different nationalities ?
Embassies and consulates will only assist their own citizens . For example , the section of the US embassy that performs this function is called " American Citizen Services " . You and your spouse would have to contact your respective countries ' embassies . As your children are dual citizens they could get assistance from either embassy . Only in exceedingly rare emergency situations such as evacuations during times of war you might get assistance for your entire family despite that fact that some members are non-citizens . For anything else routine you would have to visit your home country 's embassy . Many people are under the impression ( usually from watching too many movies ) that an embassy will going to extraordinary lengths to protect their citizens . In reality , it is usually the opposite and the embassy will rarely intervene in emergencies . For example , if you are arrested in a foreign country , you should only expect a consular visit and the telephone number of a local lawyer . If you run out of money , they are not going to loan you money to fly home etc. . Finally , in theory , EU citizens can visit the embassy of any other EU country if their home country does not have local representation . For example , Portugal does not have an embassy in Cambodia , but in theory a Portuguese citizen living there could receive assistance at the French Embassy there . I 've heard that in practice that this does n't work as well as it should .
When in doubt , follow the instructions given by the foreign consulate . You ca n't really go wrong ; worst case , they 'll tell you what to do and it should n't be a radical difference from the posted information . They seem to process things very quickly , and the process is very similar to the process for getting a US visa from Canada ( which I 've done ) . So I will answer as if you have not read the page you linked :P Yes , <URL> . <URL> ( possibly now outdated ) has the details for the " L " tourist visa . Previously the submission requirements included : Your US passport and a copy of its information page A photo of yourself , subject to the usual requirements of size etc. . The completed visa application form $ 130
I 've found the answer in the <URL> . The bad news is that if you renew your passport , you have to re-apply ( and pay again ) for a new ESTA : What should I do if the information on my passport has changed ? If you obtain a new passport or there is a change to your passport information , you must apply for a new travel authorization and pay the associated fees . There are <URL> that you can update about your ESTA without having to re-apply , but they are n't passport related . The list is : E-mail address Telephone number Carrier Information City where you are boarding Address while in the United States
As Air India mentions in their <URL> , For domestic journeys , along with a copy of your ticket , you will be required to show any of the following identification : Photo Identification of the passenger i.e. : Passport , Driving License , Pan Card , Voter card , Student ID , Military ID , Photo Credit Card , Airlines ID , Any Photo ID card by Airline , Any other photo card issued by Government agencies . <URL> also provides similar information , It is mandatory to produce a valid photo identification using the Kiosk check-in boarding pass for security clearance as well as for boarding . A valid photo identification could be an official Government issued photo identification , a driving license , an election photo identification , Passport ( for international guests ) , or a photo credit card What I infer from this is as long as you have any official documentation from the government or from the airline or a credit card with a photograph , this would be considered a valid photo ID . As far as I can understand the Marriage Certificate should be acceptable on grounds of being a photo identification issued by a Government agency , but there is no guarantee of this because Air India mentions Photo Card whereas Jet Airways does n't mention this at all . I would suggest you to use either a Voter ID or Aadhar Card .
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
Generally speaking , from my experience VISA has wider coverage than MasterCard , but neither is 100 % . So to get best coverage , it 's recommendable having one of each . Niche brands like American Express or Diners Club are not commonly accepted , so do n't bother with them for international travel . However , keep in mind , that in many countries , there are places where credit cards are not commonly accepted in shops . For example in the Netherlands you can pay anywhere with " PIN-card " , which basically means only the debit card and only from local bank . It however seems to be slowly improving with introduction of EMVs ( chip cards authorized with PIN ) . As for Visa vs. Visa Electron or MasterCard vs. Maestro , I have n't seen any place which would accept the debit , electronic ones , but not credit cards . On the other hand there are places where only credit cards ( not debit cards ) are accepted ( car rental , hotel reservation , etc ) .
The registration requirement for Mongolia is , as you say , and as <URL> other sources <URL> , for tourists who plan to stay longer than 30 days there . They have to register within 4 days of arrival . Since you have got a thirty day visa , I can only assume that you do not plan to stay longer than 30 days , and therefore do not need to register . If you currently plan to not overstay 30 days , but change your mind later , I would suggest that you go and talk to the <URL> at that point in time . You would have to do so anyhow in order not to violate your visa status .
Entering through France is definitely not a requirement . Even if you had planned to enter through the Netherlands from the get go , if you are staying in France the longest , getting a French visa is what you were supposed to do . Changing your plans compared to the itinerary you submitted with your application is not completely forbidden either but it does make your situation a little bit more difficult . Depending on the details ( including whether you have used this visa or stayed in the Schengen area before ) , it could in theory raise questions . Ultimately , border guards have the power to deny entry or even cancel a visa . They would not do that merely because you enter through the " wrong " country but only if they think you got a French visa to game the system or want to do something illegal like working in the Netherlands . That 's probably the source of the stories you heard . Because of this , buying a ticket at the airport would not help as it 's not a matter of fulfilling some formal bureaucratic requirement . The question is whether border guards believe you intend to go to France , do what you claimed you would do and generally respect the rules of the Schengen area . If they do believe you , it 's OK , you do n't need a ticket . But if they do n't , it 's too late , they wo n't let themselves be swayed by your willingness to spend some money to buy a ticket on the spot ( who would n't when faced with the prospect of immediate removal ? ) . On the other hand , buying a plane or train ticket to France in advance , while not required , could be a good idea and add to your credibility if challenged . Having other documents showing you will really go to France at hand would also be useful . Same thing for a return ticket leaving from France ( if that 's what you want to do ) and , of course , a good explanation for your change of plans . But only do that if you really plan to use that ticket and do not lie at the border ; You risk getting trapped in your own lies and giving the appearance that you are trying to cheat , which would greatly increase the likelihood of a negative outcome . See also the following questions for a full review of the rules and some issues people have faced in practice : <URL> <URL> <URL>
When you have a card from another EU-country , it 's possible that your bank has a partnership with one or more German banks and those will have the lowest fees . You should ask your bank . At the airports and train stations there are some ATMs that have very high fee - avoid those . Use only ATMs that belong to banks ( Postbank , Deutsche Bank , Sparkasse , Citi Bank etc. . ) . I think that Sparkasse and Volksbank do n't have low fees , but I 'm not 100 % sure . Before every withdrawal , the ATM will show you the fee and you can confirm or cancel .
This is a common situation , and it 's generally no problem . I 'll use A for the country you 're in , and B for the country you 're going to , but all the " flows " described here work equally well if you want to use your B passport to go to a third country . Case 1 : Same name , dual citizenship OK If you have the same name in both passports ( that is , same first name and last name , minor variations are OK ) , and both countries accept dual citizenship ( if you 're not sure , <URL> ) , the basic formula is : Show the airline the passport of the country you 're going to Show immigration the passport for the country you 're in In step-by-step detail , when flying from A to B and back : At check-in , show your B passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your A passport . ( In countries without exit immigration , like the US , you may need to show A as well at check-in . ) At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . And on the way back from B to A , just reverse the process : At check-in , show your A passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Pictorial representation for a UK/US dual citizen visiting the US , courtesy <URL> : <URL> Case 2 : Different names , dual citizenship OK If your names are different , but your countries are OK with each other : Book your flight with the name on your A passport . At airline check-in , show your A passport that matches the name on your ticket , and your B passport , that proves you 're allowed to enter . At exit immigration , show your A passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , at check-in , show your A passport only . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly back . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Case 3 : Same name , dual citizenship not OK Things get harder if one or both your countries does not accept dual citizenship , especially if they care enough to look for visas or arrival stamps . The key thing to understand here is that the airline is not a part of immigration . They do not care if you have multiple passports and they are not going to tell immigration if you do , all they want to know if whether you will be allowed in at your destination . So here 's one way to avoid letting A know you are also a citizen of B : Book a flight from A to B via a neutral third country C , where you do not need a visa . ( For example , Malaysia does not accept dual citizenship , so dual-citizen Malaysians often travel via Singapore . ) On check-in , show your A passport . At exit immigration , show your A passport . Fly to C. Connect to your flight to B . At arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , though , you will need a short detour : At check in , show your B passport . At exit immigration , show your B passport . Fly to C. On arrival at C , do not go to transfer , but instead go to immigration , show your A passport and get it stamped . ( Leave enough time for this ! ) If you need to check-in again , show your A passport . At C 's exit immigration , show your A passport again and get it stamped again . Fly to A . At arrival immigration , show your A passport . This will have a departure stamp from C , neatly hiding that you were actually in B. Beware that this is not totally foolproof , as a very careful inspection of your stamps will reveal that you were not in C for the whole time , but unless you 're North Korean , it 's unlikely you will be subjected to this level of scrutiny . Some people choose to go through immigration in C on the way out as well , so they get more decoy stamps . Case 4 : Different names , dual citizenship not OK If you have different names and your countries do n't like each other , you can still use the same method as above , but you 'll likely need to to book your A-C-A flight in your " A " name and your C-B-C flight in your " B " name .
Which Embera Community ? I believe there are several Embera communities ( including but not limited to Embera Drua ( Upper Chagres ) , Embera Puru and Arimae ) , and hence various different places one can be picked up along the Chagres on the way to the village . Hence this question is kind of on the broadish side according to TSE 's regulations . Nevertheless I understand that finding information on the topic is quite challenging , and I assume that for the purpose of your question any information to privately reach any village will do . So here we go . Visit Embera Drua <URL> explains how to visit the <URL> . It suggests contacting the village to arrange a private visit . More importantly , it mentions a rendez-vous point on the lake , which I assume is Lake Alajuela , at Puerto El Corotu . This might be the place you are looking for . As it turns out , the <URL> , with information on how to visit , and detailed instructions on how to reach Puerto El Corotu . Quoting from the website ( emphasis mine ) : Driving Directions from Panama City Take the Transístmica Highway to the community of Cabima . Or , to arrive quickly ( and bypass city congestion ) , you can choose to take the Corredor Norte to the " Colon / Las Cumbres " exit , where you will end up again on the Transístmica . Then , continue north toward Colon on the Transístmica Highway for 6.8 kilometers to La Cabima . There , you will see a Super 99 grocery store , Mr. Precio and a Pío-Pío restaurant in a small shopping center on the right . Turn right after the shopping center and pedestrian bypass . Immediately after turning , follow the road as it curves slightly to the left . Continue for 6.5 kilometers until you reach the Bayano Cement Factory ( Cemento Bayano ) . Turn left at the factory 's sign marked " Cemento Bayano . " Continue on for 8 kilometers until you reach a green and yellow one-story building on your left . This is the Panama National Environmental Agency ( ANAM ) station in Chagres National Park . Pull in and register as a park visitor and pay a small entrance fee ( $ 1 per person for Panamanians , $ 3 for others ) . Exiting the station , turn left back onto the road . Follow this road to the lake . This is the port of Corotú . Welcome ! You can park your car at the port securely . There is a police presence overseeing the port all day . Moreover , the website mentions the possibility of helping you arrange transport to Puerto el Corotu . Below are the contact details : Google Maps Meeting Point Curiously enough , <URL> which could also be interesting to you . It 's difficult to say if this is Puerto El Corotu , or even if it is for charter boats alone , or which community will be picking you up here . Nevertheless it 's still a valid clue in my opinion .
May be you will be interested in this data . It 's old by still shows dynamic how easy is getting visa C in the Schengen countries . Portugal and Netherlands looks like the best choises . Data from here : <URL> <URL> is also file with statistic of 2010 . You may see data of issued visas by you nationality . Make your own research to choose right country .
Your colleague is correct . <URL> : A JAPAN RAIL PASS can not be purchased inside Japan . You must purchase an Exchange Order from an authorized sales office or agent before you come to Japan .
Michael gave you some pretty common destination so I 'm going to add some less touristy but awesome places around Milan . Since I love lakes I would suggest you a visit around the many lakes you can find in the area , Lake Garda being probably the most famous one . <URL> What to do <URL> It is where the Italian writer Gabriele d'Annunzio lived after his defenestration in 1922 until his death in 1938 . The estate consists of the residence of d'Annunzio called the Prioria ( priory ) , an amphitheatre , the light cruiser Puglia set into a hillside , a boathouse containing the MAS vessel used by D'Annunzio in 1918 and a circular mausoleum . <URL> and <URL> <URL> is surely worth a visit among with <URL> . <URL> Verona is a pretty nice and small city which was awarded the World Heritage Site . The city itself is beautiful and there 's the famous amphitheatre and well . . the balcony of Juliet , of course , among many others thing you may want to visit . One option you may consider is to stay somewhere in Verona or Desenzano and then do day trips to the places I listed ( or others you have found yourself ) . You may also consider to ride a bike so you wo n't be bus-bounded ( even tho the bus system in that area works pretty well ) . <URL> is the official site for trains schedule . Milano - Verona is about 1h 20mins and it runs pretty frequently . A ticket is around 20 $ . The area around <URL> is also very beautiful and closer . Honestly , tho , If you have never been to <URL> , I would spend the five days there since five days are perfect to really start to get to know the city , not just the most crowded touristy places . If you are lucky you can find hostels for about 20 $ / night but you better book in advance . After visiting the most famous places just roam around the city and get lost , go to Castello , Dorsoduro , sestieri where people hang out the clothes outside ( well , probably not with these weather :) ) far from all the tourists . Venice is also pretty safe so roaming around night ( less tourists as a bonus ) it 's highly recommended . Do n't be afraid to get lost in those small calli , it 's totally awesome . I love to just walk and look around and Venice is a good place to practice this degeneration but I do n't know if it 's the same for you . If you are more for a quick visit to the touristy places than you may want to stay in Venice two to three days and then move somewhere else . If you are on a tight budget you may want to consider grab some food at the grocery store instead of going to the restaurant ( eating something reasonably good for a reasonable price in Venice it 's very difficult ) . Grocery stores that I know are : <URL> <URL> ( in Italian but pretty easy to figure out the address ) Local dishes you may want to try are : <URL> Cotoletta alla milanese ( milanese after its place of origin , Milan ) is a fried cutlet similar to Wiener schnitzel , but cooked " bone-in " . It is fried in clarified butter or olive oil [ 1 ] and traditionally uses exclusively milk-fed veal . <URL> Risotto alla milanese is made with beef stock , beef bone marrow , lard ( instead of butter ) and cheese , flavored and colored with saffron . <URL> <URL>
According to <URL> : If you do n't have photos you will be asked to pay a small fee ( few dollars ) for scanning your photograph from your passport , and placing it onto your visa application form . Another opinion from <URL> : passport photo is/may be required ( although you may be able to pay a US$ 1 " fee " to have this requirement waived ) - recently ( June 2013 ) passport photos were not asked for ( at Friendship Bridge ) .
I would expect most countries to allow exceptions to their usual immigration procedures in cases of emergency ( there may even be some pieces of international legislation about this ) . Japan does , in <URL> : In the case of disease or any other accident which urgently requires the landing of a foreign national aboard a vessel or aircraft for the purpose of medical treatment , an immigration inspector may grant permission for emergency landing to the foreign national concerned based on an application by the captain of the vessel or aircraft or the carrier who operates the vessel or aircraft until the cause thereof ceases to exist , subject to a medical examination by a physician designated by the Minister of Health , Labour and Welfare or the Minister of Justice . ( Note that in Japanese immigration parlance , landing means entering Japan by passing through immigration , etc. )
From <URL> : A family entering Australia can pool their individual allowances . For example : a family of 4 ( 2 adults and 2 children ) are entitled to bring in : 4.5 litres of alcoholic beverages ( 2 x adults alcohol allowance of 2.25 L = 4.5 L ) + 100 cigarettes ( 2 x adults tobacco allowance of 50 cigarettes = 100 ) + $ 2,700 worth of general goods ( including gifts , souvenirs , cameras , electronic equipment , leather goods , jewellery , watches and sporting goods ) ( 2 x adults general goods allowance + 2 x traveller under 18 years general goods allowance ) . ( edit ) So to be clearer - for alcohol and cigarettes , you can not allocate to the kids , but you can for other items with no age limits .
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
Yes , Brazil requires visa applicants from the US to <URL> . They explicitly state that they do not accept applications by mail . No visa applications will be accepted by mail . When you finish filling out the electronic visa application form , print the application receipt , glue your picture on it , sign on the appropriate field and bring your application receipt form along with the other required documents to the Consulate . The <URL> is in Miami , so it would require one visit to Miami . You would not be able to apply in New York or any other consulate . Fortunately you do n't have to go back to Miami later to pick up your passport ; <URL> if you leave a postage paid envelope with them . In order to save you a second trip to Miami to pick up your passport , you may leave a prepaid self-addressed Priority Mail Express envelope from the USPS ( United States Postal Service , the Post Office ) for the return of your passport . The envelope must have a tracking number . The Consulate does not accept envelopes from other companies such as FEDEX , DHL or UPS .
This ploy is known as " hidden-city ticketing " , and you should find plenty written about it if you search for that term . For example , Nate Silver wrote an <URL> ; that caused some controversy , and there was a followup on the <URL> .
end question
start question
Schengen Visa exipres a day before departure . Do I need to re-apply for visa ?
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
I got my Italy tourist visa approved today with Multiple entry option for 15 days for a 30 day period . I did include all the details about wife in the cover letter and included copies of her residence permit and deputation letter from her Indian employer , her flight tickets as well as additional the documents .
As a EU citizen , you are entitled to visa free entry throughout the EU . You need proof that you are an EU citizen , and the easiest way to provide this is with your passport . Furthermore , as a UK citizen , you enjoy <URL> - not including those in the EU . It is safe to say , you enjoy a great deal of freedom of movement even outside the EU .
No , you do n't need any other visa . You would not get one if you tried to apply for it . On the other hand , your point of entry is indeed Germany , it 's not even something that 's a matter of interpretation . You will go through a passport check and get an entry there , at which point there is nothing physically stopping you from leaving the airport and driving through several countries if you want to . That 's the way airport are setup everywhere in the Schengen area . But allowing you to enter a country with a visa issued by another one is the whole point of the Schengen regulations ( or at least one of its cornerstones ) . It 's by no means mandatory to have a visa from every Schengen country you intend to visit ( what would be the point of a common visa policy if it were the case ? ) nor even from the country you are entering first ( as the rule is very clear : you have to apply to your main destination , not to the country of first entry ) . In some very specific cases , showing up somewhere unexpected with a visa from another country can raise questions about the truthfulness of your application and your real intentions but in your situation , transiting through a major hub with a multiple-entry visa and a ticket to somewhere else , that 's extremely unlikely to be a concern .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
You can always apply . There is no specific delay between applications in the UK or Schengen area ( even to the same country , let alone to different countries ) and no automatic ban or anything like that following a mere refusal . However , you may want to be careful to address the problem raised in the UK visa refusal because , even though some of the rules and guidelines are slightly different , Schengen consulates tend to have similar concerns .
The way I see this , you will need a Schengen visa in any case and therefore need to apply for one either from Spain or the Netherlands following the usual rules . The fact that you are also going to Bulgaria does not change that and Bulgaria obviously is n't the country where you are staying the longest within the Schengen area . And once you have a Schengen visa , I do n't see any point in getting a Bulgarian one as well ( provided you satisfy all relevant rules as far as Bulgaria is concerned -- I assume this could mean staying less than X days , not working , having sufficient means , documentation of your return trip , etc. ) . On the other hand , IANAL and I never went to Bulgaria on a Schengen visa so I have no personal experience to report .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
De jure there are dozens of complex laws and regulations regarding remote employment , under which you may or may not need a special visa in order to work in a given country . Tax laws are an additional complication , where countries such as the UK can deem you as a tax resident for <URL> on British soil . De facto , as long as you do n't mention your remote job to immigration personnel at the airport , there 's a 99.99 % chance no one will ever find out . There are millions of people breaking the law by being employed at on-site jobs in any given country , so digital nomads are a pretty low priority for law enforcement .
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
As I understand your situation , you 've made quite the mess . You lied about the purpose of your visit on your first application , were refused , and now wish to apply for substantially the same trip , presumably without too much time in between , with a different purpose . That is bad , yes . So you 're proposing one of two options : Admit that you lied before and explain the true reasons for your travel . The problem is that you 'll be admitting to deception , and so your new application will have a major credibility problem . Pretend like nothing happened and make a new application . The problem here is that the consular officer can plainly see your previous refusals and will wonder why your tourist trip has turned into a business trip with the exact same itinerary . This looks both desperate and untruthful . Genuine applicants do not change the purpose for their trip . A history of further refusals will only make the problem worse at this point . The best thing to do at this point would be for your company to engage a qualified German immigration lawyer to help make a new application . You should explain to this lawyer the full details of your previous application and denial .
The Rainbow Bridge is a land border crossing between Canada and the US . There are no facilities to cross it without departing one country and entering the other , so as a result you will need whatever legal status is required to enter the other country - which obviously depends on your citizenship . If you are a Canadian or US citizen then you do not normally need a Visa , but you will require a passport or a passport card . There are exceptions to this if you have a criminal record , etc , but these are the same for any Canadian citizen entering the US or vice versa . If you are a member of a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) for entering the US then you do not normally need a visa ( again , with the usual exceptions around criminal records , etc ) . As you are entering by land you do not need an approved ETSA as you would if entering by air , however you will need to fill in an I94W form . If you are from a country that requires a visa to enter the US , then you will require a visa . Technically if you do not have a visa then the US would most likely " deport " you to the country you arrived from ( ie , back over the bridge to Canada ) - do not think of this as an easy way to get around the requirement if you are just expecting to see the bridge . Doing this will give you a permanent mark against your US immigration record , and make it harder to enter the US in the future ! The main thing you need to keep in mind is that you will be departing from and then re-entering Canada , and thus if you require a visa for entering Canada you should make sure that it will allow you to re-enter . eg , if you are on a single entry visa for Canada , you will technically not be allowed re-enter after visiting the USA .
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
Overall , this is seen to be abusive because you are attempting to get more leave than was issued to you ( whether you intended to or not ) . The controlling technical reference for your question is found in Paragraph 30C of the <URL> which says ... An Immigration Officer may cancel an entry clearance which is capable of having effect as leave to enter if the holder arrives in the United Kingdom before the day on which the entry clearance becomes effective or if the holder seeks to enter the United Kingdom for a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance . You would be in breach on both conditions . What this means is that the Immigration Officer has the right to cancel your entry clearance and send you back to Australia to make a fresh application . They can also contact your sponsor and tell them you are attempting to abuse your YMS visa . I have seen it happen . The IO does not have to remove you if you have a convincing excuse . Acclimating yourself to the UK would be a weak excuse ( i.e. , " a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance " ) and looking for a flat will raise alarm bells ... Depending upon where you are located in the UK vis-a-vis the on-going roll out of the new ' right-to-rent ' regulations may affect the legality of a tenancy agreement . So while your strategy is not illegal , it is likely to be seen as abusive without a really good reason . And if they are not satisfied with your excuse , they can remove you . If they let you in on 10 August , you will need to leave the UK on 10 August two years hence to avoid overstaying ( even if your visa says 16 August ) . Update ... In commentary , you added that you hold a YMS visa and that you have ( prudently ) discussed the strategy with your sponsor . Your sponsor thinks a channel hopping strategy may work ; I 'm not necessarily in agreement and suggest they confirm it with their solicitor . For your second question , about asking the consulate to change your start date , it depends upon the information in your certificate . They may decide you need a new certificate or may adjust your start date . It 's impossible to accurately predict without seeing what your sponsor sent you .
Yes , actual visas are <URL> : As a foreigner , you are required by Thai Immigration Law to initially enter the Kingdom on a Visa if you wish to have a long-term stay in Thailand . This can be a visa ( tourist visa for 60 days or non-immigrant visa for 90 days ) issued by a Thai Embassy or Consulate outside of Thailand . Also note that the tourism visa is 60 days , although it can be extended once in the country to 90 days . If you want 90 days off the bat , you need to apply for a non-immigrant visa , and that in turn requires proof of business ( sponsored by Thai company ) , education ( study in Thailand ) or retirement/marriage to a Thai national . See the aptly named <URL> forums for the latest scoop on what this means in practice .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
Based upon what you wrote , you should create an account at <URL> and use it to apply for a ' <URL> ' . Your husband does not qualify as a family sponsor , so you would fill out the form like in this image ... <URL> Should i book tickets before the visa will that make any difference on the decision ? It is a very bad idea to purchase tickets in advance of a visa application . It tells the decision-maker that you did not read <URL> and probably do not understand the rules . You also undergo the risk of cancelling tickets in the event your application is not successful or it takes a long time for them to reach a decision . Here 's a screen shot of the relevant <URL> ... <URL> And finally , in the remarks section of the form , you put down that you are visiting your husband and include his entry clearance number . If you have problems substantiating your marriage , then use ' partner ' everywhere . Your husband / ' partner ' should write a letter to the consulate supporting your visit ( naming you as wife or partner ) and you should include it with your application . They prefer wet signatures if possible . It 's ok to explain in the remarks section why you do not have a license as long as the explanation is reasonable .
Here is a Canadian government website that will <URL> , whether briefly in transit or for a more extended visit . You can enter your country of citizenship and all other information about your trip , and it will tell you if you need a visa , and what visa you need . Some general rules : If you do n't need a visa to visit Canada , you do n't need a visa to transit Canada . This includes citizens of the US , UK , EU and many others . You can not stay more than 48 hours with a transit visa The Transit Without Visa program ( TWOV ) and the China Transit Program ( CTP ) allow certain foreign nationals to transit through Canada on their way to and from the United States without a Canadian transit visa , if they meet certain requirements . You can apply for a transit visa by filling out the application for a Temporary Resident Visa and selecting transit visa from the list of options on the form . You may not need a transit visa if you are travelling to or from the United States . If you are in doubt about your eligibility you can contact your nearest Canadian embassy by email or otherwise .
Assuming you have a debit card on the Cirrus network , you should be able to get Canadian cash very easily . You should know we have two kinds of ATMs - those associated with a bank and the so-called " White label " ones that are typically in convenience stores and hotel lobbies and charge a much higher fee . The machine will tell you the fee as part of the transaction ( and you can cancel without incurring it if you do n't like it ) , but if you seek out a bank-associated one ( on the outside wall of a bank , typically , though there may be bank-associated ATMs at the airport ) you will save on fees . It would help to know a little French - please , thankyou , and numbers for speaking , more than that for reading . You will find that written signs are often in French only ( eg instructions in a parking garage ) which you can probably muddle through with a phrasebook as long as you have the time . Most people speak English , but the signs do n't give you that impression . Service people will typically greet you either with bonjour or hello-bonjour , which can be hard to recognize as a greeting at first . If you do n't have enough French to follow a TV show in it , and you do n't care about Canadian sports and politics , you are not likely to enjoy watching TV in the hotel ( the channels are half-and-half English and French and the hotels seem to carry less US channels than the rest of the country ) , so perhaps bring a book or something else for evening entertainment . Montreal is a great city for walking and a horrible city for driving . Bring a guidebook and go for walks at lunchtime , check out the old city , and try not to sneer at us for considering that to be old . I recommend against having an opinion on The Two Solitudes , Distinct Society , and the like . Eg do n't say " were n't you guys going to separate or something ? " with people you 've only just met . And bring your appetite ! The food in Montreal is amazing . You should eat smoked meat and bagels , and poutine , because they 're iconic , but you will also find wonderful fine dining , locavore , slow food , and more .
end question
start question
Must drivers stop at zebra crossings / crosswalks in Michigan ?
Michigan specific information Michigan does have a section of law regarding traffic control areas . This mostly deals with crosswalks at signals , but portions of it refer to crosswalks in general . See <URL> which deals with disabled individuals crossing at any crosswalk , not just signal locations . There is also a <URL> which is very broad . It simply requires that it was designated by regulation to be a school crossing . Children have the right away and vehicles must stop . Finally , the definition of a crosswalk in Michigan is setup in <URL> which states that the crosswalk is any designated walkway for pedestrian crossing . Your mileage may vary with regards to getting a ticket for entering a crosswalk , but I would not take the risk . Outside of putting others in danger , there is a very real chance that these statutes apply to you as the driver even if there is not a specific law that says so much in one sentence . If you run into the unfortunate circumstance that a person is injured or killed by your vehicle , even if the crosswalk is in the middle of the block , the prosecutor will likely use the above statutes to press charges . The best thing you can do is to stop for pedestrians in such situations . In Michigan , it may be a legal grey area , but in reality , it is the right thing to do . Original Answer ( the question used to ask for a general driving rule in the United States ) As a general rule , states give pedestrians the right of way when in any marked crosswalk or while crossing at any intersection ( marked or unmarked ) . Many states , including my home state of Minnesota , set up sting operations where the police will secretly watch a corner and hire a pedestrian to walk out into the crosswalk . If a motorist does not stop , they will be issued a ticket . Failing to stop for a walker where " zebra stripes " are present , even in the case that the stripes are in the middle of a roadway ( not at a corner ) , is usually grounds for a fine . In most jurisdictions , one must assume that failing to stop for a pedestrian is a ticketable offence . Here are a few example laws for your reference . It would be too much to list every state and local jurisdiction . <URL> <URL> <URL>
It 's fairly normal in many parts of Europe that regular non-entertainment , non-tourist oriented shops keep regular business hours and do n't open in the evening . This is especially true of smaller shops . The historical , economic and social reason is simple - shop-workers like to have a life . They do n't want to work evenings any more than you do , and most shop owners do n't want to pay staff to work evenings unless there is the trade to support it . Europeans have n't bought into the idea that ' shopping is entertainment ' , or that everyone should be able to buy plumbing supplies at 2am . it is n't a hard and fast rule . The bigger the city , and the bigger the store , the more likely it is to be open later . You will almost always find a big grocery store that opens well into the evening , and often bigger department stores on the outskirts of the town open late too . But smaller stores in the centre of town usually do n't . Restaurants , pubs , clubs etc. do of course open late . For essential services like a pharmacy there is usually one that is open late in most towns , on a rotating basis .
The <URL> mentions two interesting bits of information . First thing is , of course , that you should inform your airline of all particular needs you might have , for them to make the necessary arrangements . Secondly , according to the afore-mentioned website , airline staff is approachable in both Domestic and International terminals : Wheelchairs Travelers requiring wheelchair assistance are encouraged to advise their airline of their needs when making flight arrangements . Upon arriving at the airport , travelers with wheelchair or other special requests should approach an airline representative for assistance . At Domestic Terminals 1 , 2 , and 3 , airline staff can be approached at curbside and check-in areas . At the International Terminal , please proceed to your airline 's assigned counter or dial 1-6210 from specially marked phones at all terminal entry doors . Arrangements for assistance to and from other locations at SFO can be made with your airline . Moreover , <URL> also mentions security checks with dedicated lanes for disabled passengers , and their family/helper : Getting Through Security As part of the Transportation Security Administration 's ( TSA ) Diamond Self-Select program , dedicated lanes that allow families , individuals unfamiliar with air travel and travelers with special needs to go through security at their own pace are available at all SFO security checkpoints . Please visit the <URL> website to learn more about screening for travelers with disabilities and medical conditions .
There are no notices posted any where at Sambhar lake that you can or can not pitch tents there . There is <URL> to prevent you from doing that either . Legally speaking it is government land and is part of a wild life reserve and you are not allowed to pitch tents there . My advise to you would be to pitch your tents near the Sambhari devi temple where there is a small shop as well and a few people live there including the priest and his family so just talk to them and let them know what you intend to do . Sambhri temple also has a small parking area where they may allow you to pitch your tent as that is where I parked through the night as " Neel gai " roam on the lake bed even at night besides some other animals .
Finally , I went there , so I can now assure that the bus really stops there . I discovered that , in general , buses from <URL> do have many more stops than the ones showed at the timetables that you can find at the company website . This bus stop is ideal to go from Montalcino to the Sant ' Antimo abbey by walk , a very nice stroll , and then return to Montalcino by bus .
No . At an unplanned refuelling stop , the crew will be focused exclusively on landing , getting fuel on board , and taking off again . There will not be disembarkation services , including no jet bridge , no ramp bus , no barriers set up to guide you to immigration , etc. . Unless there is a medical emergency , you 're not getting off the plane .
Timatic ( the visa system used by most airlines ) does not mention any requirements to show details of accommodation . Many countries will ask for details of accommodation on entry , generally as one of their multiple check to confirm you are a legitimate tourist , and that you will be staying in approved accommodation . In your case , you will be able to show your airline ticket and/or boarding pass for your same-day outgoing flight , so showing accommodation details would not only be silly , but would actually be an indication they you were NOT intending to leave the country as planned , which would be far more of an issue ! If you are asked to provide your accommodation details in writing just put " In Transit " . If you are asked verbally , just show your boarding pass . Either way , you 'll be fine ! Note that citizens of some countries do require a visa to enter Mauritius . If you are from one of these countries you will require a visa to enter the country - even if only for 8 hours !
From a colleague who had a similar itinerary ( only knew major stops ) the following seems to be all you need in your itinerary : All major stops - where you are staying in large cities eg what hotel you will stay at in Tokyo , along with dates Start and end dates , including flight information Rough timelines on less well known information If your itinerary changes , this should n't be too much of a problem , assuming your end date and flights are still correct . My colleague had to change his itinerary , so kept his original printout , along with an updated one in case he had to tell authorities that he had planned one set of trips but had to change to a different version . As it happened , he did n't need to inform anyone of the changes and had an excellent visit .
Yes , you can . And I did . I just tried it from my recent trip from Narita to Shanghai Pudong via Incheon transit . I first asked Asiana Airline via email if it is possible , and they answered I must call by phone to cancel the flight . Then I called , and the operator said I should cancel the flight at the check-in counter . They seemed to not cancel my flight at that time . Then at the time of check-in , I asked again and the staff there said I can , as long as I book another return ticket and show him the ticket . I did n't have another ticket , so I immediately tried to search for and booked my return ticket , which is from Incheon to Narita in 6 days after . He accepted it , but during him checking my ( original ) ticket , he said that I can change the date of the ticket ! . According to his explanation , I did n't have to book another return ticket ; I should just change the date of the ticket of the only Incheon to Narita part . Hmmm ... it 's too stressful . It meant that I replaced my Asiana ticket with the cheap LCC one and also lost my US$ 100 . Sigh ... My ignorance ... But if you want to ditch only the last part of your return flight , it is possible ! . NOTE : Because I just booked my flight shortly before the departure , and had n't booked my hotel , I got myself into the investigation room at immigration . You shall be better off expecting a slightly more demanding , scrutinizing inspection .
It is still quite common , yes . In Sweden , long-distance buses are only staffed by the driver , and they only check for tickets on stops where people get on or off . On stops for bathroom break or when a longer stop is necessary for some reason , the bus driver will announce on the intercom how long the bus will be at the station , and when it will leave . As announcements are usually made in Swedish , you should either ask somebody native sitting nearby , or better yet , the driver him/herself . The majority of the drivers will understand some English , especially if you are on an " airport transfer " bus . Be aware that Swedes are very time-oriented and strict , so if the leave time is announced for 15:30 , then the bus will leave in 15:30 sharp , regardless of whether you are on it or not . The driver would not bother counting the passengers most of the time , but might possibly wait a minute or two if you talked with him and are obviously a tourist . But I would n't count on it .
The CBP has a <URL> . Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) Note that they are not necessarily at all terminals though . <URL> . U.S. or Canadian citizens , U.S. green card holders , legal permanent residents , ESTA and visa-waiver holders may use one of the 50 self-service kiosks when arriving at IAH on international flights . All eligible foreign visitors must have entered the U.S. at least once prior .
You could change without the rental firm knowing , but it 's very risky . Suppose there is an accident while the other driver is driving . If there are any witnesses to the accident ( drivers of other vehicles , for example ) , the company will find out . When considering this possibility , remember that endeavoring to drive very carefully does n't help very much , because your car could be in an accident caused by another driver . If that happens , any insurance will likely be invalid , leaving you responsible to pay for any damage . There could of course be additional penalties for renting the car fraudulently . The second driver fee is probably relatively small even considering the relatively remote possibility of the above .
I arrive in Frankfurt Hahn airport ( a good 90mins drive from the city ) at 9:15 PM . No worries ! The HHN airport is indeed far from Frankfurt , but the connections are not that bad . Just take the 10.30 pm bus . Ticket for an adult is 15 $ ( 14 $ if you buy it online ) . You find the bus schdules via the airport 's official site : <URL> . Click Frankfurt on the map and <URL> opens ( <URL> ) . September 29 is Tuesday , and the last departures from the airport are : ( Note that departures at/after midnight are shown in the next day 's -- in this case Wednesday 's -- timetable . )
When I was last at T3 in Dubai , the terminal did have free wi-fi but it was excruciatingly slow . Boingo hotspots are present in all terminals in Dubai International Airport . <URL> . <URL> : <URL> : For a more long term option , and if you are a frequent traveller , consider purchasing a data stick from your home country that you could use in Dubai . If you travel to Dubai often , consider purchasing a data stick from one of the two ISP 's : <URL> and <URL> .
<URL> If you select Terminal 2 International and click on each one of the shops listed , you 'll see that a few of them are found before security . These are : Jaya He Museum Store Jaya He Museum Store offers exquisite art , craft and design based collectibles made by renowned and upcoming artists of India . Pick exquisite art and craft forms in contemporary styles inspired by the Jaya He GVK New Museum at T2 . The Museum store also feature an exhibition outlet selling real time works of celebrated artists in the original form as well as product adaptations . Location : Departures , Level 4 Kama Ayurveda Browse through Kama Ayurveda 's treatment based and Internationally acclaimed holistic solutions for the skin , hair and body made with pure , natural and organic ingredients . Location : Terminal 2 , Level 3 , South-west pier , International Departures Xpress Xpress is a one-stop airport shop for a wide assortment of books &amp; magazines , choicest Indian snacks , beverages , gift items , toys and daily essentials . Stopover to pick up a few essentials before you board . Location : Level 4 , International Departures , Before Security Check Level 2 , International to Domestic Transfer Area Level 3 , International Departures , After Security Check , South West Pier I 'm not sure what means , but there might even be a pharmacy available at Terminal 2 : Apollo Pharmacy Forgot first aid for the long trip ? Headache ? Tummy trouble ? Head to the Apollo Pharmacy for all your medical needs . Location : Departures - Opposite Security Check Area - 1 I 'll let you search for available shops in the remaining terminals .
The Airport Limousine ( route # 600 ) bus runs every 18-20 minutes between Seogwipo and the airport in Jeju City express , stopping only at a few select stops , including Jungmun Tourist Resort Complex ( and International Convention Center ) , World Cup Stadium and terminating at the Seogwipo KAL Hotel . These are all usable stops . They 're there for people at the stadium/hotel/resorts to get on the airport limo to the airport , or to get from the airport back to any point . However , if you 're wanting to use it to get from say , stop 2 to stop 3 , there 's no reason for a driver to say ' no you ca n't get off ' . ( That would be , in essence , kidnapping ;) ) You may find , however , that the driver gets frustrated as there 's no way to charge you a partial ticket , but if you 're ok paying the full fare , just say you 're buying a ticket , and then request an early stop . It probably would n't be the most common , or economical use of the bus , however , and it may be worth investigating whether a taxi or regular city bus is n't more useful for short distances , depending on your planned route .
The solution to the language barrier problem may be much simpler than relying on the immigration to provide the interpreter for the native language of your family member . Given that he/she is coming from your native country it is much simpler to do one of the following : Find a person on the plane who speaks one of the major languages as well as the native language of your family member . My mother-in-law does it all the time . When she arrives she asks to come through immigration with that person to help her understand what 's being asked and she had no problems on her numerous visits . Ask the air crew for the same help . Yes it may require them to stick around longer then they would normally would but they normally speak at least one language in addition to the native and on most international flights ( if not all ) you will be able to find a person in the crew that speaks the native language of the destination country in this case France . He/She can try to arrange it prior to departure this service definitely is available for kids traveling alone but you can try it for your relative .
According to Timatic ( the source used by most airlines ) , YES , a US citizen visiting South Africa DOES require an onward ticket , although there is an alternative . This is the relevant section : R38 ) Ticket ... . Immigration authorities may request visitors and transit passengers to prove that they will depart from the country within the prescribed period , by showing a return or onward ticket to their next international destination . Unless stated otherwise , return/onward ticket is defined as : a. International airline ticket ( i.e. any types of airline tickets , reservation confirmation , booking code etc. ) ; or b. Evidence of departing from the country by other means of transportation ( e.g. confirmation of joining a cruise , train , bus or ferry tickets , proof of departing by private boat or plane , etc ) . Technically there is a provision for visitors arriving without a return ticket , which is : Warning : - Visitors arriving without a return or onward ticket will be required to pay a refundable deposit in lieu of ticket . Failure or inability to pay this deposit will result in refusal of entry . There is no mention of how much the refundable deposit is , or how it must be paid . In general , your airline will confirm that you have an onward ticket before you board your flight , and it is possible that they will not consider the deposit clause when refusing you access , so it may not be a good idea to rely on that if possible . You may be able to work around this by purchasing a fully refundable ticket for the return , and then cashing it in once you have arrived in the country . If you are caught doing this you can expect to be immediatley deported - but realistically the odds of that happening are small . If you have frequent flyer miles , it 's worth checking if you can use them for such a flight - even if there is a fee for canceling , it 's frequently less than for a normal ticket , and you wo n't have to tie up your money in order to buy a full fare/refundable ticket . South Africa also requires that : Visitors are required to hold proof of sufficient funds to cover their stay and documents required for their next destination . So if you book your onward ticket to a country other than the US , make sure that you have the required documents for that country as well !
After visiting Grjótagjá , I 'm able to respond my own question since @MikkaRin answer is not as complete as it should be . When you arrive to Grjótagjá you find these panel : It 's self-explanatory : " The public is prohibited from bathing or use of caves for purposes other than for inspection and photography " . Given this , it states that the temperature is between 43 and 46 degrees , over the <URL> ( that is near 42ºC ) . Also , the panel warns about the possibility of falling rocks and leaves at your own risk the entry . So if with all this you still want to bathe , is possible ? Yes . When we first stayed there , nobody was watching the site and a couple of islanders ( probably , not confirmed ) were leaving the site after bathing . The next morning , when we returned to make some photos with natural light , nobody was at this area . What happen if you bathe ? I confess we bathed . We made a flexible interpretation of the panel : we can bathe here if we have a photographic purpose . Also , we thought that we ca n't have any problem with the owner of the land or the authorities ( because we stayed just 30 minutes , nobody guarding and other people were bathing here before we arrive ) and we thought the probability of failing rocks were very low . The big problem was the water temperature . It 's very hot , hotter than I have ever tried ( in Budapest I could stay 15 minutes without any problem in a 42ºC hot tub ) . I had to go out after 10 minutes and other friends could n't ever stay more than 5 minutes . After bathing , you have to dry up very fast or you will start to shiver and start feeling sick ( it happened to 2 of 5 persons in the group ) .
There is really very little difference between two crossings that take about 5 minutes to cross . In all seriousness , this is really akin to asking , " Should I take 7 Mile Road or 8 Mile ? " Fundamentally , you are n't going to remember either . The <URL> always struck me as the bigger , rougher cousin - the one that felt more like a war zone ( which , of course , in downtown Detroit is relative ) - but clearly the bigger of the two . Windsor is just a little place for casinos to cater to Americans who ca n't gamble in Detroit . As the bigger of the two crossings , the customs officials will be slightly more experienced , perhaps , but not enough to make a hill of beans difference . In contrast , the <URL> is a little more upscale , and a little less congested , but only somewhat so . Detroit generally gets nicer as you move North ( Bloomfield Hills , Gross Point ) , but ( and I say this as a person whose parents are from Detroit ) , it 's still Detroit . ( Okay , " Detroit-ish " ) . Additionally , the speed limits are a little higher in the US , and the Blue Water is closer to London so during rush hour , you might save a few minutes . On the other hand , once you 're out of Windsor , you 're just in farm country , so you may be able to pick up a little bit of time if there are n't any RCMP . Really , the only question between the two , assuming the distances are equal , is " Do I prefer inner city Detroit or norther suburban Detroit ? " And trust me , it ai n't that big a deal .
end question
start question
Where is the Asia-Europe divide and where can we cross it ?
There is only one location that checks all your boxes , and no others come close : Istanbul . The west part of the city ( its historical center ) is considered to be in Europe , the part on the eastern side of the Bosphorus strait is in Asia . There is a bridge that you can drive over , the city is extremely scenic with many beautiful mosques and the Hagia Sophia , and it does n't get much more historically significant ; it was the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire , of Byzantium , and of the Ottoman Empire . Other than that , the border between Europe and Asia is ill-defined and although the concept of the border is of historical significance , there wo n't be much of a historically significant or even visible physical border on the ground . The usual convention is that the border runs along the Caucasus and Ural mountain ranges , mostly in Russia , but I do n't think you 'll find nice marked crossing points there . Some people opine that Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus is also on the border , but according to <URL> it 's actually north of the Caucasus watershed that is usually used as the border . It 's Europe 's highest mountain at 5642m , relatively easy to climb and some scientists have actually managed to get to the summit with a Land Rover ( see the article ) , but I do n't think it qualifies ... Edit : actually it is apparently wrong to say that the border is invisible elsewhere -- in the Urals there seem to be some monuments marking it , see e.g. <URL> , which has pictures of a few of them west of Yekaterinburg .
Crossing Bering Strait on a boat does seem possible but it 's going to be difficult practically . <URL> . From the looks of it , it appears you might have to pay your way through it on commercial fishing vessels which operate in the area . According to this resource , <URL> . From the linked source : It is recommended to cross in a seaworthy vessel capable of handling intense storms . It is possible to cross the narrowest part of the Bering Strait in a smaller boat such as a kayak during a calm period of weather , however a support boat would be recommended . The problem , however , is the possibility of having the boats confiscated upon reaching shore . and ( assume there are similar problem the other way ) How do you cross the Bering Strait legally ? This is very difficult . Not only is it necessary to arrive in Russia in an official port of call , but it is also necessary to depart from an official port of call . We have not heard of any adventurers who have received permission to arrive or depart from the remote shoreline of Russia . <URL> . A pertinent point is while it may be possible to cross , going on from there onwards to rest of Alaska/America has its own problems too . It should be noted that Nome is not a usual port of entry into the USA , and it could be a problem as there is only a part time Immigration and Customs agent . In addition , from Nome to the rest of Alaska would then require an expensive flight to either Anchorage or Fairbanks . Also from Provideniya there are only occasional flights to Anadyr , the Chukotka capital that is considered one of Russia 's less desirable destinations .
Currency inflow/outflow in India is regulated under the Foreign Exchange Management Act . <URL> : Import of Indian Currency is prohibited . However , in the case of passengers normally resident in India who are returning from a visit abroad , import of Indian Currency upto Rs . 7500 is allowed . This translates to roughly USD 150 ( depending on current exchange rates ) . There is no limit on amount you can bring in foreign currency into India . If the amount is above USD 5000 in cash or if carried in form of travellers cheques + cash , then any amount above USD 10,000 has to be declared using a customs declaration form when entering India . Even though you are technically allowed to bring in large amounts of cash/money in other forms , you may be asked questions by Customs officials when you hand in your declaration form . I believe the limit your bank has mentioned refers to the first rule , although at current exchange rates it wo n't translate to 200 Swiss francs . In practice customs officials rarely , if ever , check how much currency a traveller is carrying but if you do get stopped for inspections for any reason and they find you exceeding any of the limits mentioned above , then they can take action against you .
Here 's a <URL> about it , including a pointer to the location on <URL> . As you can see , it 's hard to find and there 's barely anything there aside from a few overgrown stone walls . The last couple of photos are of a shrine along the way , not the ruins .
I found two rental companies apparently located in San José , Costa Rica : <URL> ( US$ 55-80 per day , minimum 3 days ) <URL> ( US$ 90-145 per day ) Prices as of April 5 , 2012 .
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
An e-mail to Kahlúa asking about tours was answered with : Thanks for your email and your interest in Kahlúa . Unfortunately we do n't currently offer a tour of the Kahlúa facilities . If you have any further questions , please do n't hesitate to ask . Best regards Martin
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
I would try the <URL> in Shinjuku . In addition to kimonos they offer used books , hanging scroll art , prints , and accessories . Like anything secondhand it can be hit-or miss on what is available when you are there . Alternatively if you are willing to travel a bit ( 4.5 hours ) the <URL> is one of the best places to buy a genuine secondhand kimono in Japan . To get an idea of what to expect they have a really good <URL> that you can browse . Hanazono Shrine Antique Market Schedule Every Sun ( Closed on Shrine activity days and rainy days ) Open hours : Sunrise - sunset Address : Hanazono-jinja shrine grounds , 5-17-3 Shinjuku Shinjuku-ku
Realistically there 's nothing near the station food-wise , with the exception of a Coke machine and a snack machine within the waiting room at the station itself ( make sure you have coins ! ) Even though you may have a 24 minute wait , the process actually varies dramatically depending on how many people are on the bus ( es ) . When the train arrives the buses will normally be lined up outside of the station ( having been used to bring in people to catch the XPT when it turns around and heads south again ) . People generally file pretty much straight off the train and onto the buses . For the more popular routes ( which basically just means the one to Brisbane ) there will be multiple buses , and they will normally load them one at a time , and they will depart as soon the they are full . The last bus will normally not leave until the scheduled time , but obviously the earlier the bus you get on , the earlier you 'll arrive in Brisbane ! It 's also not uncommon for the inbound XPT to be at least a few minutes late ( in fact , I do n't think I 've ever seen it actually be on time into Casino ! ) , so your 24 minutes probably is n't a real 24 minutes ... Your best bet is probably just to either bring something with you , and/buy something from the buffet car on the train ( keeping in mind that they often run out , and they close a while before they get into Casino ) The other option is to catch the night train , which is a train all the way to Brisbane , arriving early morning ( exact time depends on whether it 's during daylight savings or not ) - or just fly which is normally going to work out cheaper !!
For Singapore , camping is limited to certain places : Changi Beach Park - From Carpark 1 to Carpark 4 and Carpark 6 to Carpark 7 ) East Coast Park - Area D and Area G Pasir Ris Park - Area 1 and Area 3 West Coast Park - Area 3 For all the places above , a camping permit is required , however you can apply for it easily online at the <URL> . The maximum camping period is 4 days for each applicant . You could also try to camp in Pulau Ubin ( Jelutong , Noordin and Mamam Beaches ) . These beaches do not need any permit . Another option is to camp in Sentosa beach , with permission from Sentosa authorities . Try to email to administrator@sentosa.com.sg to get the permit .
<URL> allows you to specify almost any conveivable trip combination . You can specify the cities or airports to fly through , the layover times , the airline alliance or airlines and even the aircraft that you 're willing to fly . Example : If you wish to fly from London to San Francisco via New York with a stopover in New York of more than 48 hours on the outbound , only on aircraft operated by American Airlines , you would use LON : :O : AA * / minconnect 2880 to SFO : :O : AA * If you 'd like to further specify your requirements , I 'm sure we could supply you with the options you would need to use .
<URL> : Passenger : Dear Lufthansa My sister is flying with Lufthansa on Thursday , from Johannesburg to Zagreb . She will be flying with her musical instrument , the violin . Please let me know how we can get permission for her to take her violin on board as hand luggage , as she can not let it out of her sight , even for a second . In the past , it was no problem to take it on board , but lately I know of some challenges . The violin in its case is les than 2 kg . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , if your sister is travelling in Economy Class , then she is allowed to bring on piece of hand luggage into the cabin . The maximum weight is 8 kg and the maximum dimensions are 55 cm x 40 cm x 23 cm . If these restrictions are not exceeded than it should n't be a problem to bring her violin into the cabin . More information about hand luggage can be found here : <URL> Passenger : Thank you . The dimensions are 15 x 25 x 85 though . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , as one of the given dimensions is exceeded I ca n't guarantee from my side that your sister will be allowed to bring her violin into the cabin . This decision needs to be made by my colleagues at the airport . So it 's going to depend on what size your case is , I suspect , and the feelings of staff at the airport , on the day , as to whether it 's allowed as carry-on . As for checking it , Lufthansa , like other airlines does their utmost to ensure it 's safe . However , airports employ non-airline staff to handle luggage , so sometimes it 's out of Lufthansa 's control . In the event it IS damaged ( unlikely but possible ) , <URL> : Report the damage immediately at the airport Make a subsequent complaint about damage and that they 'll compensate you <URL> - roughly 1200 Euros , which can fluctuate . So ideally you 'll want good travel insurance , with your instrument itemised on that policy beforehand , with photos and details to prove it before you depart .
As Ilmari commented , the <URL> by " <URL> " is very good . It even mentions my favorite bar , Pub Magneetti . I like his other recommendations too : <URL> &amp; somewhat hippie atmosphere at Alppipuisto ; public sauna in Kallio ; berry-picking ) . Some more ideas below . Many of these may not be " only in Helsinki " things , but stuff I love about this place anyway . ( I 've lived in Helsinki for almost 14 years . ) The sea and nature spots are never far even in central Helsinki ; for me a big part of the spirit is related to that . On a warm summer day , head to Suomenlinna for a picnic <URL> . It 's truly a unique place for this , and a <URL> too . Buy some strawberries from the Market Square before boarding the <URL> . Maybe hit the supermarket on the main island for some food , beers or ciders . ( What locals do anyway . ) When leaving , please take your trash with you . :-) Photo : <URL> , Wikimedia Commons Go to Hietsu ( Hietaniemi ) , the most famous sandy beach in Helsinki , a walking distance from centre <URL> . The beach itself ( or the cool water ) may not impress you much , but on hot days it 's a really lively place with a mostly youthful crowd . Besides sunbathing , you could join some of the many groups playing beach volley . ... Or if it 's Sunday , come to the park very close to Hietsu at Hesperiankatu &amp; Mechelininkatu <URL> to play ultimate frisbee with local &amp; visiting couchsurfers , starting 3pm . Then , continue to Töölönlahti : at the amphitheatre behind the National Opera <URL> , there 's a ( free ) salsa party on summer Sundays starting 6pm . Whether you dance or just hang around , the atmosphere is lovely . Salsa at the Opera . Photo by me . On the opposite side of Töölönlahti , overlooking the bay , there are some lovely old villas . Go to Café Sininen huvila ( " blue villa " ) to have a coffee and read a book perhaps . <URL> Besides Hietsu , good places for swimming and spending a summer day are the city 's two public open-air pools : the <URL> <URL> and <URL> <URL> ( admission 3.60 $ ) . To me , these places feel somehow " traditionally Finnish " , in a good way . There 's a sauna too , of course . The one in Kumpula is farther from centre , but located in a charming residential area with wooden houses . ( Only downside is that it can get too crowded sometimes . ) Climb to the rocks in Vallila <URL> to watch the sunset and views over the beautiful old wooden buildings of this working-class neighborhood turned hip . ( Combine this with visiting Pub Magneetti at Mäkelänkatu 20 . ) Or for a sunset in more bourgeois environs , try Munkkiniemi on the western side of Helsinki peninsula , just where tram 4 terminates <URL> . There 's a lovely ( and expensive ) <URL> with a terrace there , or you can just hang around on the seashore . Sunset at Munkkiniemi , August 2012 . Photo by me . For a proper nature retreat , you could do like the NYT blogger and head to Sipoonkorpi , but it would be somewhat easier to reach Uutela nature park in eastern Helsinki by the sea ( take the metro to Vuosaari , then walk ) <URL> . Nuuksio in Espoo is also great for this though a little farther away <URL> . If it 's your cup of tea , getting drunk -- and getting to know locals in the process -- is obviously one of the most popular ways to feel the spirit of Helsinki . Tour the ( relatively ) cheap bars in Kallio , for example , and head to city centre for later-night action . If it 's Thursday , go to " Kalle " ( <URL> ) which for some reason is packed ( only ) that day ( go before 10pm to avoid a long queue ) . ( Alcohol is generally expensive in bars/clubs ; what Finns commonly do is pre-drink at a house party or a park or something . ) Follow the events organised by <URL> collective . All kinds of urban culture , parties , bike trips , artsy events . Really fun stuff . ( Find someone to decipher the Finnish for you . ) NB : almost all of the above is quite summer-specific . But then Helsinki is at its best in summer and that 's when most tourists come here . In winter , you could try <URL> at Rautatientori , the square next to central railway station ( admission 5 $ + skate rental 5 $ ) . ( I 'll edit this later if I forgot something . )
I believe it 'd be at <URL> on Google Maps . I found it by following the directions on <URL> : Zaouiate Oued Ifrane is located about 100K south of Fez . The road which dead ends at Zaouiate Oued Ifrane turns off from the main roadway after the town of Souk L'Hdd and before the city of Mrirt . Transportation to and from Zaouiate Oued Ifrane is the only deterrent to visiting , if there is one . By personal car/vehicle it is no problem , just head south from Fez toward Azrou , at Azrou , continue on as if going to Marrakesh and then take the left directly after Souk L'Hdd . On google maps there 's not much civilisation there , but there is a road that ends at the Cascades . Wiki mentions there is a great swimming hole up the river where one can relax on large rocks in the sun and take dips into the cold spring fed river at their leisure . Or if you crave something a bit colder and more adventurous , take a shower under the 100 foot waterfall . which seems to match this . Satellite view confirms that there is a town there . I then looked it up on OpenStreetMap and <URL> by this name which matches these directions .
I 'd stop in Albury then Goulburn both about 3.5 hours drive and on the Hume Highway . I 've visited both and Albury has some nice parks and if you 're onto big things Goulburn has the Big Merino . *
<URL> has information going back several years . Their level of coverage is generally excellent , although it can vary a little depending on the airline/location . You will need to create a free account in order to view data more than a few days old . Specifically for your flight they do n't have any specific information , only scheduled information that the flight was from Zurich ( ZRH ) to Amsterdam ( AMS ) , departing at 7:25 PM and arriving at 9:00 PM on an Embraer RJ170/190 . The lack of information could mean that there is a hole in their data , or it could mean that the flight did not fly for some reason ( ie , it was canceled ) . Checking that same flight for days before and after there is full information available .
This answer only deals with the US part . USDA regulations on Cut Flowers specifically exempts dried flowers : 7 CFR 319.74 Subpart -- Cut Flowers provides the following : restricts or prohibits importing fresh , cut flowers , but exempts dried , bleached , dyed , or chemically treated decorative plant materials from the definition of cut flowers Source : <URL> Dried plants are sometimes subject to restrictions , but only if they are listed explicitly : If a name is not listed in the reference table or the Index , that article is most likely merely subject to inspection -- that is , release it without a permit it if is free from plant pests . Source : <URL> Lavender is not listed , so I think it 's safe to assume that there are no restrictions on what you can bring back into the US with respect to agricultural regulations . As with all of these things , it 's always best to declare it though .
The one he is probably referring to was actually presented by Venezuela - <URL> of <URL> , liberator of Bolivia , Panama , Colombia , Ecuador , Peru , and Venezuela from Spanish rule . This statue is at the entrance to Central Park at the north end of Sixth Avenue - The Avenue Of The Americas - so it fits the context of the story well . Photo from nycgovparks.org
Thanks to a tip from my hotel , I 've discovered there is somewhere open in the mean time - <URL> . The Msheireb Enrichment Centre is located on a medium sized barge moored off the Corniche , just west of the Sheraton Hotel ( the triangular pyramid shaped hotel near the north eastern edge of the Corniche ) The exhibition is sponsored by Msheireb Properties , who 've apparently done lots of building works around Doha . No-one seems to know if it 'll stay long term , or close when the National Museum re-opens , but for now it 's your best bet for a short visit to learn about Qatar 's history and culture ! ( It 's at the other end of the Corniche from the Museum of Islamic Art , but there are public buses running round the Corniche you can take mostly between the two , if you do n't fancy the 4.5 km seafront walk )
end question
start question
Flying in the EU , can I transit in Istanbul airport without a passport ?
I also asked the Turkish airlines sales office and received the reply below : Puteti calatori doar cu cartea de identitate cu conditia sa nu iesiti din zona de tranzit . Buh Tk Office Translation : You can travel with just the identity card on the condition that you do n't exit the transit zone . Update following @phoog 's suggestion . I also asked the Turkish embassy in Romania and received a similar answer : Daca veti tranzita Turcia fara a parasi aria aeroportului nu aveti nevoie de paşaport . Daca veti parasi aria aeroportului aveti nevoie de paşaport valabil minim 6 luni . Translation : You do n't need a passport if you 'll transit in Turkey without leaving the airport . To leave the airport you need a passport valid for a minimum of 6 months .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
<URL> applies : No , you do not need a visa for going from the US to India via Frankfurt airport ( or vice versa ) , as long as you stay in the transit area and have a connection in less than 12 hours . <URL> , emphasis mine : Indian nationals can Transit without Visa via FRA or MUC if holding a valid visa for the destination and a valid Visa for any of the following countries : Bulgaria , Canada , Cyprus , Ireland , Japan , Liechtenstein , Romania , UK and USA ( the approval notice I-797 is not valid document for visa free airport transit ) . <URL> confirms this as well .
In the strictest sense : Yes , that works1 . ( But you should be well-prepared for a discussion with the police , just in case ) Since you mention going to Freiburg , we 're talking specifically about Germany , and the relevant applicable laws are § 20 FZV and § 3/13 KraftStG . The first one states that it is legal to temporarily use a foreign car with a valid foreign registration . The second one exempts you from having to pay tax . There are several important preconditions to fulfill : Temporarily means less than one year . For your example , that 's the case . The vehicle must not be designated to be regularly registered in Germany . In non-gibberish , this means that trips must usually start abroad , i.e. the car must have it " home base " abroad . It 's the car that matters , not you . For a car rented in Basel , that 's arguably the case . You must not transport goods or people for profit ( or else the tax exemption is void ) . The car must be properly registered and have an insurance , with papers in German . No issue when renting in Basel . The car must be " safe for traffic " . Pretty much guaranteed in your case , too . 1Let 's be more careful and say : " should work " , because you never know . Police sometimes has an odd opinion , even when you are perfectly right , so you can not ever be sure . For example , depending on whom you encounter , they can be very inventive for giving out fines on purely imaginary regulations , such as when your first aid kit has no expiry date or the date is expired ( there 's no law requiring that ) , or if you drive with perfectly legal daylight ilumination , which the particular police man does n't recognize as such .
Since Turkish Airlines offers <URL> to passengers with layovers like yours , you 're going to want to tell them . You might prefer a free stay in a hotel instead , but I would go for the tour . The FAQ does mention : There is luggage custody office next to Hotel Desk with a service fee . You may check the conditions and prices ; <URL> . If requested , touristanbul participants can leave their luggages ( unless they are electronics or precious items ) to the assigned tour shuttles at their own risk . It sounds like everyone can use the Baggage Custody Services , and in addition if you do n't want to pay for that , you can bring your baggage on the tour and leave it on the shuttle bus . But talk to the airline , because you may just be able to check it right through and not worry about it .
Certainly not . As a foreigner who lived in the UK for four years , I definitely only needed my passport for international travel . I used my New Zealand photo driver 's license initially for ID ( eg , to get into a bar ) , and then my UK one . For opening bank accounts and others where you sometimes require two forms , then you bring your passport . The UK is not like Russia or Uzbekistan where police on the street can and do stop you without cause and demand ID ( in my case , six times in one day in Tashkent , Uzbekistan ) . And in the event they DO need your ID , a driver 's license generally suffices - or they can go with you to your place of residence to get your passport if you for some reason got into serious strife . I can only think of a handful of cases that I needed my passport . To open a bank account , to prove my visa status for starting a new job , for renting a flat / staying in a hostel , and you definitely need it for hiring a car . I remember this one as I tried to argue it , but had to eventually go back home and get my passport . I was n't pleased .
Since Emirates and Air Asia uses separate terminals at KLIA , you will be required to pass through Malaysian Immigration , and <URL> states : Malaysia ( MY ) Passport required . - Passport and/or passport replacing travel documents must be valid at least six months on date of arrival . So yes , I would recommend you renew your passport first if at all possible . That said , since you have an immediate onward connection you might be able to argue a ) Emirates into them into letting you on board ( this would usually entail signing a disclaimer where you agree to all responsibility if you 're not allowed in ) and b ) Malaysia into letting you into the country . But why risk it ?
Yes , you can leave the station . The period of validity is said to be two days on their official embassy sites in both the US and <URL> , so you should be okay leaving the next day . <URL>
There are two aspects to the question : EU countries are extremely unlikely to put specific restrictions on entry by dual citizens . It 's never been done nor discussed and would raise many questions . There is a general difference in philosophy at play here , US authorities routinely look at the country of birth for many purposes ( e.g. security clearances ) whereas European countries do not do that in the same way ( being a citizen trumps everything else ) . It would not make sense as retaliation for the recent changes to the US visa waiver program either . In any case , nothing has been announced and such a new rule would require an extensive rewriting of the Schengen regulations , which can not happen overnight without anyone noticing , given the way the EU decision process works . EU/Schengen countries are also very unlikely to put a blanket restriction on entry by all US citizens . This would in fact make sense as a retaliatory measure ( or to protest other restrictions like the ESTA requirement or the fact that citizens from some EU countries are still not eligible for the VWP ) and would be easier to implement ( just a matter of removing the US from one list and adding it to another ) . But it would also jeopardize visa-free access to the US for all EU citizens and neither the treatement of Bulgarians , Poles and others nor that of dual Iranian-something citizens seem to be enough for other member states to take that risk . Of course , that 's not a certainty ( what is in this area ? ) but until now the EU has only been able to complain a bit , with member states delaying any serious action and I feel fairly safe in predicting that it will continue that way . Case in point , the regulation cited by Tor-Einar Jarnbjo contains some pretty strong language but always had possibilities to delay actual restrictions pretty much indefinitely baked in and , sure enough , several ostensibly crucial deadlines have passed without any agreement to go beyond empty protestations .
The kicker is the delay , once you pass the airlines reporting deadline , the chances for compensation drop to basically zero . Too easy for folks to start claiming all sorts of non-existant items . Personally I would have been persistent with calls or perhaps gone back to the airport to report the theft . At this point your best bet is to write a polite letter explaining the situation , include copies of the ticket , boarding passes and purchase receipt . You might get lucky . But I suppose at this point the two of you have learned the number one rule about baggage when flying ... put nothing of value in checked bags .
PEK-J268-GYD-J263 TXL has a layover of 1 hour 45 minutes in GYD . This is above minimum connection time and should be fine . However , Azerbaijan airlines ( J2 ) only has one flight per day from GYD to TXL so if you do miss it , they would most likely rebook on you on the next day and you would have to stay overnight . It is possible that they could also rebook you via another route and occasionally might rebook you to another airline , but I would doubt that . Airlines rarely wait for connecting passengers these days , but might if there are a considerable number arriving from a connecting flight . Your bag should be checked through to your destination and you should n't have to pick it up in Baku . Enter your citizenship and travel details in <URL> and it will tell you whether you need a visa . Timatic is the system the airlines use to determine whether you require a visa and thus wo n't carry you without it .
There are two ways for Saudis to travel legally to Thailand : First Way Get a paper from " Chamber of Commerce " indicating that you have business in Thailand . keep it with you until the renewal , and it 's easy to get . Conditions : You should have Establishment ( <URL> ) , now you can have Establishment without Location , or you can use your relatives Establishment if someone have one . You should n't apply if you are a Government Employee in Civil Affairs . if this conditions are applied on you , continue reading the first way , otherwise move on to the Second Way :) Now you just have to go to " Chamber of Commerce " and give them this printout papers of the following : Your Passport . National ID card . Commercial Register . Chamber of Commerce subscription . Apply for form in Chamber of Commerce ( you will find it there ) . They will contact " General Directorate of Passports " directly to check if you are not Government Employee then they will give you the permission . Second Way Get a paper from " Ministry of Health " or " Emara " indicating that you are going to Thailand for medical issues . Any Medical Report will help here , for example headache , lower back pain . And try to have invitation from physical therapy from Thailand and apply it to nearest " Emara " ( BUT YOU SHOULD FOLLOW UP WITH THEM A LOT ) because they are slow . Thailand up to a few years ago was stamping on external paper , but it seems they stopped that now so do n't count on it .
Yes , not because the bars and hotels want to check it ( some will ) , but because the police have the authority to stop you in the street and demand identification and the proof that you are staying in Japan legally . Source : got checked for passport in JR Tokyo Station .
Usual regional ( not highspeed ) trains do n't require ( or offer ) reservations ; so yes , you can just go there , buy a ticket , and enter the train . However , the South Korean " standing seat " system ( if I understood it correctly ) is not known here . With reservation , you 'll have a guaranteed seat ; and without reservation , you may have to stand ( anywhere ) or you 're lucky and find an empty , unreserved seat . There are no lower prices for people refraining from using seats at all . For many high-speed trains ( ES Frecciarossa/Frecciargento/Frecciabianca , InterCity ) , seat reservations are mandatory . For Pisa-Firenze , this wo n't be a problem , there are many regional trains ( I 'm not even sure if there are non-regional trains at all ) . If you need/want to take a high-speed train somewhere , usually it 's still no problem to buy the ticket right before entering ; most trains are not sold out . However , buying in advance is probably cheaper .
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
Assuming that you have the right to enter the Schengen area without any additional hassle , 10 hours is more than enough to go to the center , hang out there , even do some sightseeing in case you 've never been to Munich before , then return and safely catch your onward flight . There 's a direct <URL> connection to the airport that takes around 40-45 minutes from the center . Getting out of the airport is pretty fast , I assume it would take you around 15-20 minutes on a normal day . Obviously you should reserve more time for security checks and that sort of stuff for entering the airport later on , but 2 hours before your flight departure time is very much on the safe side , you usually need much less than that . If you 're 100 % cautious , it will still leave you more than 5 hours in central Munich . It 's a pretty city , I would recommend visiting in case it 's your first time and you have the necessary documents to enter the Schengen area .
Yes , Switzerland is part of the Schengen area , so you will have no trouble traveling there , provided you remain within <URL> . You will still see border checkpoints for commercial traffic , as Switzerland is not part of the EEA , but you should not be affected .
Istanbul Ataturk airport is open 24 hours . I have personally gone through transfer in the international zone at 4 or 5 in the morning several times . I believe the domestic zone is the same . Note that the gate information likely wo n't be available until about two hours before departure of your second flight . Please edit your question and add details of your flights ( from/to locations , times , airlines , whether they are all on one ticket or separate tickets ) - and we might be able to help further .
According to Visa Waiver Program <URL> ( I assume you can join the Visa Waiver Program ) Passport validity The standard requirement for passport validity is 6 months beyond the expected date of departure from the United States . However , the US has signed agreements with a number of countries to waive this requirement . <URL>
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
end question
start question
How long does it take to transfer from Terminal 3 to Terminal 1 at SFO ?
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
According to <URL> : Showers - Location : Freshen ' Up International Terminal - landside , level G , Main Hall . Hours : 7:00 am - 11:00 pm . Fee : $ 15 for the Deluxe Shower ( 30 minute shower + 15 minute massage chair with towel , soap , shampoo , lotion , shower shoes , and a hairdryer if required ) / $ 8 for the Standard Shower ( 20 minute shower with soap and towel provided ) . Sleeping - Best sleeping spot Ive found so far is a lounge in Terminal 2 near Baggage Claim # 4 , with two padded benches each of which is big enough for you and the one you love .
When you get to CDG , you 'll need to clear immigration , get your bag , then go through customs . You can then take the CDGVal to Terminal 2 , if you 're not already there . Head to the station area , which is quite well signposted , and situated between T2C , T2D and T2E . You can spot it in the middle of the <URL> . Once in the station area , find the ticket office , find the badly sign-posted TGVAir desk ( do n't just the long main ticket queues ! ) . Show them your ticket reference , they 'll find your ticket which they should 've already printed , stamp it , and hand it over . At this point , look at the time . You need to be at the right point on the platform 5 minutes before scheduled departure , and I 'd suggest at least 10 , ideally 15 minutes before to avoid stress/worry . The platform should be announced 30 minutes or so in advance . That gives you your waiting time , which could be fairly short , especially if there were delays ! In the <URL> , there are a few cafes . I seem to recall there are some with power sockets , ca n't remember about wifi . I picked the one nearest the ticket office last time I was there , and it was fine to kill the time until the train . There area also some seats in the central area which are at a bench-thingy with power sockets , most of which worked . If you have under an hour , just pick one of those If you have a long time , it 's a 5-10 minute walk to much of T2 , so you can always go for landside cafes there
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
To have an idea of the prices you can go to the <URL> ! And when I read the menu web page , it tells the " chef 's recommended course " is worth 30,000 yen , which is around 300 euros .
I have not done this journey in a superjeep , only in normal transportation in summer months . But I can tell you that it is usually around a 2.5 hour journey . Its a fairly pleasant drive in my experience . During winter , Iceland only has around 4 hours of daylight per day . At worst , on the Winter Solstice ( 22nd December in 2015 ) <URL>
Head to the <URL> , find the ticket office ( <URL> ; open Monday-Sunday 05:00 -23:59 ) , and buy your ticket to Canterbury from there . ( I 'm not sure if you can buy the ticket online or not , but personally I 'd just buy it from the station . )
Most of these flights are on so small airlines that it 's hard to get historical performance data on but the <URL> flight out of 34 observations , 85 % was on time , averaging only 9 minutes of delay , maximum 31 minutes of delay . So yes , the schedule is pretty firm . <URL> does show some bus connections but it 's 1.5-2 days and does not show a significant savings over a flight taking less than 2 hours so I have not pursued this avenue further . On further research I have found some outdated information on ferries going from Manila to Iloilo and on to General Santos taking even longer closer to three days . I have n't researched this either but the Wikipedia page on <URL> reports it to be a modern fleet so one can presume it 's on schedule .
There is a photo of walkways in the google map gallery , which shows a 360 ° view with a DFW sign visible . <URL> Judging from the escalators at either end of the walkway , this appears to be beneath the tarmac and used to connect between two terminals .
It turns out one can view their bus ticket on <URL> : Enter the flight confirmation number along with the email used on Wizzair.com to reveal the E-ticket : I think they 're supposed to send out a notification 3 days before the flight takes place , but there 's no need to wait for it . If the ticket does n't show up on P-Airbus . com , it 's possible to receive it by contacting the transfer service support at wizzair@wizztransfer.com .
If you are flying with Jet Airways , Air Vistara or Air India only you will land on international airport in Mumbai . For rest you have to take the Bus internally .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
I guess it depends on what you want to do , and how long you 're staying . Traveling around the country might be a little more difficult , but if you 're just staying in the Reykjavik area you should be fine . I just got back from a short trip to Reykjavik , and had a great time . As another commenter said , more darkness means more time for the Northern Lights . Also more time for drinking and partying , if that 's your thing - Reykjavik has lively , non-stop night-life during the weekends . There is also good food , and lots of public heated swimming pools to explore ( my blog entry about my visit to some of those pools should be up in the next day or two ) . Have fun !
No you do n't . You can transfer to other terminals and exit there . However , you must be travelling with hand luggage only , otherwise you will have to return to the original terminal land-side to collect your luggage , which would be difficult as you would need to get past customs to collect it . Here 's an <URL> on flytalk . One of the quirks of the airside transfer buses and the flight connection areas in each terminal is that you can arrive on an INT flight at T5 but cross the UK border at another terminal . In fact you can also do this in reverse , so arrive on an INT at T3 for example , and cross the UK border at T5 . Whilst this is not really recommended normally , you may wish to do this if you have your car or left luggage at another terminal or you find the UK border at the terminal you arrive at to be very busy .
A lot of what you need you can just get in the grocery store - rice , pasta , dried potatoes ( either mashed or slices for " au gratin ) , sausage like pepperoni and salami that specifically does n't need refrigeration , dried fruit and nuts , instant hot cereal ( oatmeal , cream of wheat etc ) , dried legumes ( especially lentils which do n't need soaking ) jam , honey , and peanut butter will take care of a lot of your needs . You 'll want to put things into different packaging so they can survive in your pack and so that you 're taking the right amount for the length of the trip . My favourite camping breakfast is instant oatmeal . Add extra raisins , brown sugar , or other dried fruits if you like . Boil water in the morning and you have coffee and oatmeal and you are set for a pretty physical day . ( Bring a whisperweight stove that uses butane or liquid fuel - fires are far too slow for morning purposes . ) Beef jerky ( made at home if you have a dehydrator , or bought in the store if you do n't ) along with dried fruit and nuts will meet any snack needs through the day . If you must have lunch , you can use bagels or English muffins ( on week + trips I <URL> english muffins , your trip is short so just bring a few packages ) with cheese ( the " light " cheeses keep better , and buy several small ones so they stay sealed longer than one big one ) , sausage ( the no-refrigeration needed ones ) , peanut butter , jam , or honey . If one of your days features a big climb to a gorgeous lookout and you know you 'll want a rest , packages of soup mix from the grocery store can make a 30 minute stop into a delightful lunch . Again the whisperlight stove and some locally-sourced water . Dinner the first night can be meat you took from your freezer that morning , wrapped in plastic and several layers of newspaper . I 've done it and when we unrwap it , it 's not just cold , it still has ice crystals in the middle . Fry it , and cook some fresh veg with it as you would at home . The second night try <URL> using that no-refrigeration pepperoni , some cheese , and maybe some onions and any other veg you 've brought . The third night , something vegetarian built around lentils and rice - we love kusherie - or beans in a sauce , like meatless spicy chili with dumplings . You can also dry hamburger meat ( cooked ) in your oven at home and use that as the meat in spaghetti sauce or shepherds pie filling . Set the hot pan of cooked sauce aside with a towel around it while you cook the starch - it will stay plenty warm and you only need the one little stove . These need you to bring canned or dried veg , I choose dried for the weight and rehydrate them right in the sauce or stew . Bottom line is this is way easier than you think . Have a great time !
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
Possibly . It 's not every passenger that has to , but you may , if : They ask you to do so , or Your shoes contain metal ( eg steel toed/capped shoes ) Source : <URL>
The other answers are correct , but they rely on the assumption that wet wipes are not liquid , gel , aerosol , cream , or paste , without any evidence that the TSA would accept that . As you correctly pointed out in a comment , wet wipes contain liquid . How can we check whether the liquid contained in wet wipes causes them to fall under the 3-1-1 rule ? Try the Prohibited Items page of the TSA web site : <URL> Here , there is a box with the text " When I Fly , Can I Bring My ... ? " If you type " wet wipes " into the box , and click the " Go " button , you will get a pop-up window informing you that You may transport this item in carry-on baggage or in checked baggage . For items you wish to carry-on , you should check with the airline to ensure that the item will fit in the overhead bin or underneath the seat of the airplane .
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
end question
start question
Where can I buy US prepaid credit card outside US ?
I 've used a lot of these cards almost since they were introduced to the market over a decade ago , so I 'm drawing on my experience here ( technical corrections are welcome ) : Prepaid debit cards in the US come in two major classes : reloadable and non-reloadable . Non-reloadable cards are purchased with a fixed amount of U.S. dollars on the card , and can not be topped up . Once they are empty , they can be discarded . These are often sold as " gift cards " , do not require an ID check , and can be found in most grocery stores , drugstores , shopping malls , etc. . They generally have a flat fee for purchase of the card , and usually no other fees . The highest denomination I have ever seen for these is $ 1000 , though I believe the law allows for them to have up to $ 3000 . Most are in the $ 25 - $ 100 range , though higher denominations can be found with some shopping . You will receive a card immediately at the point of purchase , usually with the name of GIFT CARD or something similar . This once caused one cashier to glance at the receipt as I was finishing my purchase and tell me " Thanks for coming in today , Mr. Gift . " Reloadable cards are purchased with an arbitrary amount of money loaded on the card , and can be topped up at any time . These typically carry monthly fees , top-up fees , and sometimes transaction fees . They also require an ID check , and the issuer may restrict issuance to US residents . ( Thanks , PATRIOT act ! ) They can be loaded with up to $ 3000 at any given time , though the issuing bank may have a lower limit . Reloadable cards may have to be mailed to you at a US address ; you do not typically get the card at point of purchase , though you may get a temporary card . The card you receive in the mail will have your name on it , and it generally takes about a week or two to arrive . As far as I know , neither type can be obtained from outside the US ; you must obtain them in person at a point of purchase . Both types of cards will have a web site where you can register the card and associate a physical address in the US with it for the purpose of online shopping . The web site will also show the activity on the card and its current balance . For reloadable cards , the registration is mandatory and you will do it as part of the process of purchasing the cards . For non-reloadable gift cards , it is optional , and only needed if you wish to use the card to make online purchases . ( And those virtual cards you mention are only usable online ; they can not be used in physical stores . ) Which type is better for you , I think only you can say . But I would think that a high-value non-reloadable card or two would be the way you would want to go here . My favorite place to get them is at shopping malls ; the mall customer service desk will sell them , generally in denominations up to $ 250 or $ 500 depending on the mall , usually for a fee of about $ 5 . Finally , a usage note : When your card gets near empty , you can instruct a merchant to charge the exact amount remaining on the card , and then pay the remaining balance via another payment method , as long as you are n't doing this at a restaurant , hotel or possibly gas station ( since these places may authorize an amount higher than the amount given and settle the exact amount a few days later ) . This allows you to empty out the card and not lose any money . You might also consider just using your own credit cards while in the US ; if they have a magnetic stripe and are Visa , MasterCard , American Express , etc. , they should work in most places in the US except for " pay at the pump " gas station pumps ( <URL> ) . You 'll usually get a good exchange rate , too , though this does seem to vary a lot by country and bank . Note that Maestro cards do not generally work for purchases here , though they work at most ATMs .
You 'll want to decide whether you need to make calls , send SMS , or if you 're just after it for data . Then take a look at the <URL> . Depending on what phone you have , you have a few options there , and it 'll depend on how much data you plan on using in those five days , of course , as to which one suits you the best , but you 'll be able to choose between 3 KHK , One2Free NextG and PEOPLE 's , each with their pros and cons .
The rental desk often wishes to see that the credit card is issued in exactly the same name as the driving licence . If you and your father share a name or a first initial it would probably be acceptable , but it seems to me a bit risky . A better solution is to ask your father to take out a second card on the same account , but in your name . This is called a " supplementary card " . He will be liable for any spending that you do , but the card will be in your name .
An American breakfast is simply the American variant of an <URL> , which is elsewhere an <URL> -- what Wikipedia in its neutralism calls a <URL> , in contrast to the so-called <URL> . A full breakfast is a " heavy " breakfast high in animal protein such as eggs , sausage , ham , and/or bacon , often fried . The American variant will have some kind of bread such as flapjacks/pancakes , French toast , or a waffle , and American-style sausage or bacon . I have rarely seen a hotel " American " breakfast that includes genuinely American dishes like waffles and chicken , grits , or biscuits and gravy .
It turns out that hotels are happy to receive mail for you before you arrive , provided you give them a heads-up first . I just bought my tickets from the Tigers ' <URL> , and had them send it to my hotel . I added my arrival date to the address , as " Lastname樣 ( 4月8日宿泊 ) " . The hotel got it fine . I did have to provide a Japanese phone number to the ticket purchasing website . My Japanese Skype number was n't accepted ( maybe because it has an area code specific to VoIP numbers ) . I used my friends ' number , but I imagine you could just use your hotel 's number ; it 's not like they got a call .
As of the information available on the Ride Metro site and on the list of approved retailers there are none in the airport itself . The closest retailers that sell the card would be <URL> on US 59 or Treaschwig Rd. . You can probably use the <URL> and the <URL> to see if there is anything closer but I have n't found anything nor there are any retailers in IAH 's zipcode ( 77032 ) .
I am told , the problem with them Indian customs is , you can read them boys all the rules from the book , but if they see you with more than 2 average sized ( 750 ml ? ) alcoholic bottles , you have had it . By the book , you can carry 2 liters of alcohol : <URL> The best option in experiences of people I know and as others here have suggested , it 's best to buy in US , pack well and put it in the check in luggage . Many liquors are way cheaper in the state run package stores than what it is in any other package/beverage store . In case it helps , I think last time I bought a Gelnlivet 18 year old 750 ml was 95 bucks . But you have to also keep in mind , the bottle weight of such liquor can get very heavy . There should n't be any problem all along the way . Just my personal suggestion ; You get all the GLENLIVETs and GLENFIDDICHs in India for reasonable price . How about taking something exquisite which is n't available in India at all ? May be a Tequila 1800 ?
There are two early-opening Wetherspoon 's pubs right by Glasgow Central . Wetherspoon 's do well priced , reliable vegetarian breakfasts . I 've been in one for a super-early veggie fry-up and it was quiet , spacious and relaxing on a morning , with very comfy sofas . Ca n't remember which one , is probably true of both . <URL> <URL> And there 's a <URL> right by the exit that ( I think ) will do you pickled eggs alongside an authentic <URL> . Lots of chippies near the station do chips &amp; cheese . But I 'd consider not just stumbling to somewhere nearby . Glasgow has been voted one of the UK 's best cities for vegetarians and vegans and has <URL> . Off the top of my head , Mono , Tchai Ovna , Stereo and The Arches are all very well loved ( but I think they open later ) . There are many more .
For travel in the US ( which I did in April ) you only need your passport as a form of ID . This is for the immigration process ( you 'll need a visa , most likely , in your passport ) , and for all internal flights as well . It is possible to fly internally without a passport as a foreigner , as an English friend did in April as well , but it was VERY difficult , as every security person expects you to have your passport available to travel with .
It 's possible and easy . You just have to go to one of the many mobile shops around and buy the sim card . In Portugal there are 3 physical operators : <URL> formerly known as <URL> <URL> <URL> You also have some virtual operators : <URL> - they usually have nice prices but everything is done on-line . You can buy a card in mobile phone shops or by snail mail <URL> - similar to uzo <URL> - you can find them in every post office shop ; it belongs to the post office company . <URL> - kind of new . It 's widely available and aparently with good prices . <URL> formerly known as ZON - it 's part of a cable tv group ; in principle a good solution but only if you subscribe to cable <URL> A very recent virtual operator , currently offering Internet when you top up . Recharging a pre-paid simcard in Portugal , for someone from abraod , can be a problem since the most common way of doing it is in ATM machines . You probably ca n't recharge your phone with a foreign ATM card since you only get a small set of operations . The alternative way is to go to the physical shop where you bought the card ( or another one from that network ) or go to any shop with " payshop " . You can find a near by agent here <URL> ( only pt ) . Lycamobile allows for an on-line recharge .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
Legally , probably . Sounds iffy , but that 's the state of the law at present - it 's evolving and is ' iffy ' . A US Appeals Court has determined <URL> , and that : " It is clearly established in this circuit that police officers can not , consistently with the Constitution , prosecute citizens for violating wiretapping laws when they peacefully record a police officer performing his or her official duties in a public area , " the appeals court said . The <URL> and states that : When in public spaces where you are lawfully present you have the right to photograph anything that is in plain view . That includes pictures of federal buildings , transportation facilities , and police . Such photography is a form of public oversight over the government and is important in a free society . and in regards to your camera/phone : Police officers may not confiscate or demand to view your digital photographs or video without a warrant . The Supreme Court has ruled that police may not search your cell phone when they arrest you , unless they get a warrant . Although the court did not specifically rule on whether law enforcement may search other electronic devices such as a standalone camera , the ACLU believes that the constitution broadly prevents warrantless searches of your digital data . The Huffington Post has an article - <URL> which confirms that it 's legal in all 50 states : " There 's no law anywhere in the United States that prohibits people from recording the police on the street , in a park , or any other place where the public is generally allowed , " Osterreicher said . However , conflicting state laws might still find you in hot water - they might go after you with another sneaky rule , for example , from the same article , according to Massachusetts law , citizens are permitted to record police officers in public , but only if the police have been informed that a recording is taking place . You 're more likely to run into problems if your recording interferes with police business , or if you 're being a nuisance . So if in doubt - ask the officers that you 're filming first , and avoid the complications of offense , arrest and trial ( if not worse ) if possible .
if merchant has secured booking in advance and locked your payment does n't matter card is valid or cancelled , you will be charged after no show . if debit/credit card payment is not secured and cancelled before no show up then you will not be charged
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
I bought a <URL> in December 2012 in a Kaufland supermarket in Berlin . <URL> was via the congstar web site , and done in some minutes . There are several thirty day data packages available , most notably : 1GB at 12.90 EUR and 3GB at 19.90 EUR . congstar is a discount daughter company of Deutsche Telekom ( T-Mobile ) , and network coverage of Deutsche Telekom is perhaps the best in Germany . Concerning your question : If you subscribe to a data package , it will only be extended if there is sufficient credit on your card . There is no deactivation fee . Quote from the section for the 1GB data package , Surf Flat Option 1000 , in the <URL> ( German ) : Die Buchung und die Wirksamkeit der Option setzt voraus , dass der Kunde zum jeweiligen Abbuchungszeitpunkt des monatlichen Optionspreises über ein ausreichendes Guthaben auf seinem Guthabenkonto verfügt . Der Abrechnungszeitraum der Option beträgt 30 Tage . Die Option verlängert sich automatisch jeweils um 30 Tage , wenn sie nicht mit einer Frist von einer Woche zum Ende eines 30-Tage-Zyklus gekündigt wird . Weist das Guthabenkonto zum Abbuchungszeitpunkt kein ausreichendes Guthaben auf und kann der Optionspreis nicht abgebucht werden , gelten die Konditionen der Option bis zu einer erfolgreichen Abbuchung nicht mehr und die Datennutzung wird nutzungsabhängig nach dieser Preisliste abgerechnet . Soweit die Option nicht gekündigt wurde , führt congstar maximal bis zu einer Dauer von 180 Tagen regelmäßig einen Abbuchungsversuch durch . Wenn dieser erfolgreich ist , erhält der Kunde eine SMS-Information und die genannten Verbindungen werden wieder zu den Konditionen der Option abgerechnet . Andernfalls wird die Option gelöscht . As Google Translate struggles with this text , a rough translation done by me ( disclaimer : IANAL - I am not a lawyer ) : The booking and validity of the option ( i.e. data package ) requires that , at times of billing of the monthly option price , the customer has sufficient credit on his prepaid account . Billing period for the package is 30 days . The option automatically extends for 30 days , unless it was cancelled at least one week before the end of the 30 day cycle . If , at the time of billing , the prepaid account does not have sufficient credit and the option price can not be withdrawn , then the option will not be valid anymore and data usage will be billed according to usage as described in this price list . If the option has n't been cancelled , then congstar will repeatedly attempt to withdraw from your prepaid account up to a maximum of 180 days . Once an attempt has been successful , the customer gets an SMS information and data connections will again be billed according to the option . Otherwise , the option will be deleted . Just to clarify : Guthabenkonto refers to the virtual account where the money is stored that you charged your card with . Above , I translated it as prepaid account . Guthabenkonto does not refer to your bank account , which you do n't have to specify , unless you want automatic recharging for convenience .
If it 's a VISA debit cart , then it can be used as a credit card anywhere VISA is accepted , so you should n't have to worry about it . Note that many rental companies will want to charge the deposit to the card - most likely in the area of $ 200-300 . This money will be unavailable to you if the charge is on the debit card . While it 's easy to determine whether the card is a debit or credit card ( often , but not always ) by the card number alone , the rental company wo n't care . All they need is to be able to charge the amount owed to them . On a separate note , I strongly advise that you think carefully whether you really need a car in Paris . Paris is one of the worst cities in Europe to drive in . Updated based on the comment : If you want to rent the car to go to Belgium , you may need to inform the rental company that you will be taking the car out of the country - which in turn may make the cost of rental more expensive . You will likely be breaking the terms of your rental contract if you take the car across the country border without notifying the rental company .
You 'll want to go to a locutório ( like a small shop ) . It 'll be called that - " Locutório " with a purple sign saying " SUBE " in the window . Where are these shops ? There 's a handy website that <URL> . Then according to a <URL> : You 'll fill out a small application with your name , address , and passport/DNI number and pay the $ 20 ARS . However , your card will not come loaded with funds and the locutório may not charge SUBE cards . So you will have to find a kiosko that does . There are many along Santa Fe that sport the SUBE logo in their windows . These places may or may not be able to charge your card at that time , so again , you 'll just have to ask . When you find a charging station , you can have up to $ 50 ARS put on the card at a time . The clerk will charge your card on a space age sensor machine and hand you a receipt with the proof of funds .
This wiki is a very good source of info : <URL> Many companies offer prepaid SIM cards . <URL> is a good option . I use a <URL> SIM card , which is a re-branded blau card that is sold for 5 $ in Netto grocery stores ; other discount grocery stores ( Lidl , ALDI , etc ) have their own offerings . A one-month data plan will cost 10-15 $ . I just saw an ad for what appears to be an amazing deal from Telekom ( the largest operator ) that seems to include unlimited use of the Telekom network for only 10 $ per month : <URL>
Give them your Canadian passport . From the US point of view , whichever one you travel on is the one you 'll be using and therefore , your citizenship . Example : I have New Zealand and South African , and travelled through the US on my New Zealand . Never need to mention the South African one - there 's never a question about it , apart from some forms asking your place of birth . You provide the passport to the airline for this trip - they 'll ask again . You could have a new NZ passport by now , or a different citizenship , so they 're always going to ask again .
Although the official currency of Peru is , US dollars are widely accepted in many places . I found out three ways to exchange dollars into soles : In banks - the banks have the worst exchange rates and there were always lines . Besides , not all commercial bank exchange money . I do n't recommend this . From street moneychangers - there are people in most cities , they wear blue vests with euro and dollar signs , and they are licensed money changers . They offer better rates than banks and sometimes you can even negotiate the rate ( almost always in Lima , not so often in smaller cities ) . I recommend this In supermarkets - most supermarkets ( like Wong , etc. ) accept payment in USD and give change in PEN . They had the best exchange rates and I frequently paid with large notes to get more money changed . I strongly recommend this . I heard that casinos , which are almost at every corner in Lima , exchange in the same way as supermarkets , and have even better rates .
end question
start question
When in doubt , ca n't you just show two passports ?
It is n't really the airline 's decision to choose which travel document you travel on . Yes , we all know for instance that you should enter the USA on the US passport ( by law -- if you have one ) , but should you enter the UK on your US passport or your Greek passport ? The document you use will depend on the purpose of your visit , and your own circumstances . And although we can advise which might be more convenient for most cases , it certainly is not the job of the airline to make that guess . Second , some people ( including airport check in staff who should know better ) assume that you can only have one passport , and that in possessing two you must be breaking some rule [ even if you are n't ] . If you have multiple passports issued by the same country , it 's even worse . Since the airline staff ( or contractors ) then do n't know which passport to enter in the system , or whether they are supposed to report this ( ! ) or something ridiculous , it can cause delays when they go away to find out from a supervisor or the station manager . So actually it 's probably better to turn up at each desk knowing which passport to hand over .
I have had a lot of looking at sites like this ( Traveller Century Club , Most Traveled People , etc ) , and while there 's a US Centric one ( The All Fifty States Club ) , I 've never seen a European one . Perhaps it 's time to start one ? :) Of course , the biggest problem you 'll have is - what counts as a visit ? <URL> has a great description of the argument faced - is it when you set foot ? Leave the airport ? Eat a meal ? Sleep one light ? What counts as visiting ? Then you have the problem of what IS a country ? Is Gibraltar ? What about Kosovo ? There 's also an Extra Milers Club - which records visits to all 3142 counties of The US :)
In France there is no distinction between local and international stamps . All french stamps are created equal ( except their value ) . You can put as many stamps as you want and you can put as much value as you want . You just need to put at least the required value to the destination .
I just checked airbnb.com and found accommodation for under 40 euros in August . It seems , indeed , that there are either very few or no hostels in Cannes , if a hostel is an accommodation with dorms . I suppose flashy Cannes does not have much of an interest in the lower end of the tourism industry . Nearby Nice does have hostels , or rather , accommodations with dorms , but these are not too cheap , starting at roughly 30 euros per night per bed .
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
I did received boarding pass for spicejet from the transfer desk in Dubai without any issues . Thanks
So basically it 's not just two countries that make up the difference . For example , as as Dutch citizen you can get a visa-on-arrival in Mozambique , while Sweden ca n't . Sweden has visa free entry into Vietnam , while Dutch do n't . Rather than list all the differences , I 'll point to these two Wiki pages : <URL> <URL> They list all the countries and the rules for the citizens - visa free , visa-on-arrival , and so on . It also means it 'll continue to be more up to date as the rules change ( eg this past year <URL> - go figure ! )
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
It is an ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , and as you know ICAO is the organization that standardize all international travel documents . From the document <URL> ( Machine readable Travel Documents ) which regulates all kinds of travel documents worldwide including passports : 11/II Sex of the holder , to be specified by use of the single initial commonly used in the language of the State where the document is issued and , if translation into English , French or Spanish is necessary , followed by a dash and the capital letter F for female , M for male , or X for unspecified . Anyway , there are some studies to remove the gender field from travel documents , such as the review from <URL> , things are still under study and it will take long time for this to be implemented , as such a change will require a lot of policies and procedure all over the world to be changed as well . To answer the why part , the gender field is/was important to identify the passport 's holder along with other features , some guys do look like girls with long hair and vice versa , it also reduces the risk of issuing the passport to the wrong identity or issuing multiple passports to one person , I guess the gender field is there to help in these cases . Read the review by the new Zealand passport office mentioned earlier for more details on this .
1 ) You can have them mailed to someone else 's address , maybe where you 're staying or if you know anyone in town . There 's also a cosubscriber option you can benefit from if you know someone in town who has one . You can also not subscribe and pay per ride , you do n't need keys in that case . 2 ) If you only need 2 weeks ' worth of biking , you might want to look at pay per use , it depends on how often you 'll need it so I ca n't say if you 're better off . Be aware though that Quebec City has its own network , and that even if you 're subscribed to the monthly plan you still pay extra if the ride exceeds 45min <URL> , which makes taking the bike out of town a pretty bad idea . 3 ) Highly subjective , but keep in mind they were designed as a quick way to go from A to B , not as a way to stroll around town . They 're pretty heavy to deter theft too . The system is pretty reliable though , there 's stations all over town and defective bikes are usually replaced quickly . In my own experience I can say some stations more uphill tend to be emptier because people usually leave them downtown instead
There are no experience-related difference to speed limits in Germany ( where I live ) , and neither are there in Poland , according to <URL> <URL> . I think the Belarusian regulation is rather unusual .
Well the main problem is that the host/hostel staff have yet to meet you . They do n't necessarily know you , and they do n't know what emergency it will be for . So the call might go something like : Operator : What 's your Emergency ? Host : Er , I 'm not sure . Someone 's meant to turn up , and they have n't ? Operator : Can you describe them ? Host : No , I 've never met them . And so on . At best , you could get them to report you as a ' missing person ' , but the timeframe for when police consider you to be really missing differs from country to country . In Australia , for example , <URL> , IF you have serious concerns about their safety/wellbeing and their whereabouts are unknown . However , generally it 's for cases where being missing is out of character , which is hard to say if the host does n't know you . In New Zealand , however , if you do a hike you can state when/where you are expected to be/return , and if you do n't show up a rescue party can be sent out to find you . So long story short - it depends . Based on this , the call could go : Operator : What 's your emergency ? Host : Bart Arondson , a guest of mine was meant to arrive today and has n't . He was going to be hiking from Nelson to Pelorus Bay today , and left there this morning but has n't arrived here . At which point the police/search and rescue might make a judgement call about the weather , conditions and the likelihood that you 're in trouble .
From <URL> Can a Visa Waiver Program traveler with more than one passport travel to the United States on the passport that he or she did not use when applying for a travel authorization ? No . Each Visa Waiver Program traveler must have an approved travel authorization for the passport they plan to use before they travel to the United States . If a traveler obtains a new passport , they must submit a new travel authorization application in ESTA using the new passport . A processing fee will be charged for each new application submitted .
It 's 100 % legal now , within some limits . <URL> : Adults aged 21 or older can grow up to three immature and three mature cannabis plants privately in a locked space , legally possess all cannabis from the plants they grow ( as long as it stays where it was grown ) , legally possess up to one ounce of cannabis while traveling , and give as a gift up to one ounce to other citizens 21 years of age or older . Consumption is permitted in a manner similar to alcohol , with equivalent offenses proscribed for driving . Public consumption remains illegal . The one big difference to Amsterdam is that , unlike Dam 's coffeeshops , you are not allowed to smoke pot in the stores that sell it , or any other business open to the public . In practice , this means <URL> is at your home ( or someone else 's with their permission ) . <URL> has more practical details , including the important note that , without Colorado ID , you can only buy 1/4 oz ( ~ 7g ) from a shop . Bringing cannabis to the airport is also illegal , and taking it out of state lines is also a bad idea ( because it 's illegal everywhere else except , soon , Washington ) .
The simple answer is that it 's because the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) - the global organisation that is responsible for settings standards for passports - recommends that they should be valid for no more than 10 years . For example , the ICAO " <URL> " states that : Passport Validity Period [ ... ] Recommended Practice 3.16 - Contracting States should normally provide that such passports be valid for a period of at least five years ... Note 1 -- In consideration of the limited durability of documents and the changing appearance of the passport holder over time , a validity period of not more than ten years is recommended Of course the question then becomes why does ICAO have such a requirement ! In addition to the obvious reason that the biometric data on the passport ( at a minimum , the photo ) will be out of date after a period of time , the primary reason for expiring passports is likely to be that it allows the underlying technology to change without there being too many legacy passports in circulation . For example , most countries started implementing " Machine Readable Passports " in the 1980 's . Given a maximum expiry of 10 years , that meant that by the year 2000 it could be guaranteed that people from most countries had an MRP , and thus countries could start to enforce their use - such as how the US did in the mid-2000 's . If passports had a 20 + year expiry , then even today there would n't be a guarantee that people would have MRPs . The same is true for " electronic " passports . For example , Australia started issuing these in 2005 , which means by the end of 2015 countries will be able to enforce that Australian passports must be electronic . Expiring passports also reduces the number of stolen/forged/etc passports in circulation - both due to the expiry of those that are in circulation , but also by enforcing newer anti-forgery standards for new passports .
I 've been to Thailand renting a scooter from different hotels , agencies on different islands and they never ask you for driving license when renting a scooter . Renting a scooter is very popular and it costs only around 200-250baht / day . The only trouble is that sometimes they could hold your passport during rental period ( See : <URL> ) . It should be similar in Malaysia . So it is not necessary to have driving license when renting a scooter . In <URL> article at Trip Advisor we can read : According to the UN Traffic Act of 1949 and the Thai Traffic Act of 1979 , an IDP is not required if you are a tourist/visitor in Thailand as long as your license is in English , has a photo , and your country is a contracting state of the 1949 treaty , which most are . ( See motoring law below ) If you are a resident , however , you require a Thai drivers license . As a tourist , rental car companies , insurance companies and police will all accept your home license . Still , it not a bad idea to obtain a legitimately issued INTERNATIONAL DRIVING PERMIT ( IDP ) before you leave your home country . MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY ACT ( Thai Law ) Section 42 Anyone who wishes to drive a motor vehicle on public roads must possess an appropriate driver licence . The driver must carry the driver licence and a photocopy of the registration book and show them to competent officers upon request . This does not apply to those who are learning to drive a motor vehicle according to the provision of Section 57 . If the driver is an alien who does n't have an immigrant visa , he may drive a motor vehicle with a driver licence specified in the Section 42-2 . In such a case , he must carry documents specified by the treaty between the Thai government and the government which issued such driver licence , and show them to competent officers upon request . Section 42-2 In case there is a treaty between the Thai government and a foreign government regarding mutual acceptance of driver licence , an alien who does not have an immigrant visa may drive a motor vehicle with a driver licence issued by such a foreign government , or an automobile association authorised by such a foreign government . Once you obtain a non-immigrant visa or establish you are a resident ( such as enrolling kids in school , buy a car etc , ) and are no longer a toursit , you need a Thai drivers licence as your national license and international driving permit is only legally accepted if you are a tourist . Several insurance companies have fine print stating that the driver should hold a valid Thai driving licence to be fully covered after a certain amount of time in Thailand . Sources : <URL> at Motorcycle Thailand <URL> at Driving in Thailand
For contingent purposes , I always carry the following , in no particular order : Printed copies of my passport and visas ( also electronically on my mobile and laptop ) Printed and electronic copy of my travel itinerary ( I use TripIt on my mobile , and it 's always there anyway ) . Printed copy of my accommodation confirmation ( if available ) Visa-supporting travelling documents ( e.g. invitation letter ) Additional means of identification -- be it driving license or national ID card -- in case something happens to your passport . At the very least , your embassy would like to see these . I also store encrypted electronic copies of the most important travelling documents on a cloud storage service , e.g. Dropbox .
You may qualify for " <URL> " , which would provide you meals , accommodation , transporation , if your itinerary matches certain conditions ( layover length between 8 and 24 hours , no better connections available and there are a few more limitations ) . If your booking does qualify , then you should see it as an option on Emirates website under " Manage your booking " .
I used to ' get around this ' technicality by asking at the info desks at airports where there might be a power point to charge my laptop etc , even if I 'd spotted some . They 'd usually helpfully point out one , or say ' oh just use any you find ' . That way I figured I 'd be able to argue being covered if it came down to security yelling at me or worse . I 've also since seen some airports tape over power points , presumably because they do n't want it to be used . Others openly point to them , and indicate free Wi-Fi all around and so on . One view is that you can walk in - anyone 's welcome despite it being private property . They 're certainly happy for you to use their power and water in the washroom , on the assumption you 're a passenger as well . One could argue reasonable assumption in court if it came down to it , but it 'd be interesting to see how that went . <URL> notes that many airports have made quite the effort in deactivating outlets . <URL> to have power outlets for passengers to use . I think the difference between the Leaf incident and what you 're asking is that the guy was not somewhere he could reasonably be expected to be , with no reasonable expectation of use of their facilities . Much like if you use the electricity at your friend 's house , they 're unlikely ( I 'd hope ) to be able to sue you , the airport already offers you its facilities , and indeed wants to you spend time eating , dining and so on there . Of course , until this actually goes to court , we are not lawyers , and likely can not do much more than speculate on what would result , unfortunately .
On the two routes that you detailed Virgin Australia does not have any of its own flights . However it has a codeshare agreement with Singapore Airlines on those two routes , which means you could purchase a VA flight and not travel on a Va plane . I did a quick check on the VA website and the codeshare flights are shown . Kayak uses matrix ita , but also pulls fare data from over 400 sites , so it is likely that VA have not offered that fare grouping to ita , but is offering it on its own system , or through another partner . Kayak case study ( from ita website ) About Kayak Kayak.com , the largest Travel 2.0 site in the world , is a global Internet media company operating Kayak.com , Sidestep.com , TravelPost.com and TravelSearch.com . Kayak.com and SideStep.com display results from more than 400 travel sites , providing prices and itineraries for hundreds of airlines ... ( There is more to this quote but I think it covers what I want to say )
end question
start question
Travel from New York Port authority to Brookhaven National lab via bus ( or any cheap method ) ?
You can catch the <URL> ( no relation ) every 15-30 minutes all day from Manhattan to Manorville , then a taxi back to Brookhaven National Laboratory . The taxi fare may be quite a bit cheaper this way than from Ronkonkoma as the distance is shorter . It may also be faster , depending on time of day , since the bus has only one stop between Manhattan and Manorville . The bus picks up at 40th and Lexington , so you 'll have to go crosstown several blocks from Port Authority ; either take the 7/7X from Times Square/42nd St to Grand Central Terminal , or walk it .
Travel Insurance is not a commodity , and can vary widely between companies . You 'll usually be offered insurance at the same time as booking a holiday , but can arrange separately - here 's what you need to check out ; Is Your Destination Covered ? It sounds obvious , but policies vary and if you do n't know what you 're looking for , they can be confusing . Some providers , for example , will include countries such as Turkey and Egypt under European cover , while others wo n't . Worldwide cover , meanwhile , does n't always include the USA , Canada and the Caribbean -- so ensure your policy does if you 're heading out that way . Also , check the insurance will cover you for the duration of your whole stay When selecting which travel insurance policy to go for , it 's important to check how many consecutive days abroad you 'll be covered for . Limits vary depending on the provider , and if you go over this limit , even if it 's only by a day , you will invalidate your insurance . Check for limits After all , the last thing you want is to make a claim on your travel insurance only to find you 're not covered for what you had lost . Work out exactly what you 're bringing with you to ensure you have the correct amount of cover -- we recommend that you have at least the following . # 1,500 baggage cover # 250 to cover lost cash # 3,000 cancellation cover -- or enough to cover the total cost of your holiday <URL> Other things to bear in mind include ; When can I actually claim and how ? Check the documents carefully , do n't get caught out . Is your medical condition covered under a policy ? Also . do n't lie about medical conditions - this will void the policy . ALWAYS READ THE SMALLPRINT !!! Thus could contain the most important information for you . Again , do n't get caught out . The most important part has to be about Claiming . Make sure you are certain that you have enough amount of cover and know how to claim if necessary . The process is n't particularly difficult , as long as you do n't fall in any traps .
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
In fact , your potential for scenic views will be higher on virtually any mode of transportation other than the bus ( plane , train , private car , boat ) . There is quite stunning scenery along the coast . Amtrak 's <URL> follows some of it , between San Luis Obispo and Oxnard , and a seat can be had for as little as $ 60 coach . But keep in mind that this trip will take a minimum of 12 hours from Oakland to Los Angeles , that there is only one train a day , and this train is frequently delayed . Renting a car and driving gives you the most flexibility to enjoy coastal scenery along routes such as the <URL> and <URL> . Of course , a one-way rental is costly , fuel is astronomically expensive by U.S. standards along parts this route , and as you can imagine , driving along oceanside cliffs is exhausting . Buses do not take the coastal route for the same reasons , aside from some tour buses that may take three or four days to make the journey . The scheduled passenger services all take the straight , fast , flat route through the Central Valley along Interstate 5 . As you can imagine , a freeway trip amidst heavy truck traffic passing through an endless series of farms and ranches is not particularly memorable . The bus does offer certain advantages over flying , but I would rate them all as moderate . Cost . An advanced purchase one-way Megabus ticket between Union Station in LA and the CalTrain terminal in SF runs around $ 34 ( and can be as low as $ 10 ) . The ride is about 7-8 hours . An advanced purchase Southwest Airlines ticket from LAX to OAK starts around $ 69 , with a block time of around 1 1/2 hours . Keep in mind too that on a long bus journey , you will be taking a meal at a truck stop , probably overpriced and of poor quality . Convenience . The necessity of airport transportation and security screening makes the time savings of a flight less dramatic , especially when services like <URL> offer stops in several neighborhoods . On the flip side , LAX , SFO , and OAK do have relatively convenient bus or rapid transit connections . Comfort . The bus is arguably more comfortable and offers more amenities , but this is offset by its much longer travel time . For example , many buses on this city pair offer in-seat power and WiFi , whereas few of the aircraft do ; however , the need for either is diminished on a 90-minute trip . By the time my bus would trudge through Kettleman City , I could already be checking email in a cafe in Santa Monica . Reliability . LAX and SFO are prone to fog at certain times of the year that is heavy enough to cause flight delays or cancellations . On the other hand , there are so many flights between the two areas ( dozens and dozens of flights if you include nearby airports ) that it is easy to be re-accommodated on a later flight the same day . In short , if you have money to spare , I 'd fly . If you have both time and money , I 'd take the train . The bus is a viable option , but it is a compromise .
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
The short answer is no , as has been said . There are a few bus lines popping up . You can check them out at <URL> and <URL> . They typically take you between SF/LA and LA/LV and that 's about it .
The Queensbridge Projects are located in Long Island City , and this means you can communicate directly with the cognizant community board for travel advice and other matters arising in that area . The board is called , " Community Board 1 " , and their contact details are Conveniently , they have an email and will be able to provide you with the best times and routes to use through the Projects . With fortune , they may be able to connect you with a local ' guide ' who can accompany you . The Mayor 's will be able to put you further in touch for the other Projects in NYC you want to visit . Source <URL>
You could try <URL> . It 's a company for cheap bus lines operated by DB . <URL> also have domestic lines .
<URL> has the experimental Maglev train . For fairly obvious reasons , they generally do n't have passengers - although there 's a practical section for it . Currently it 's about 18.4 km long and will become part of the Chūō Shinkansen connecting Tokyo , Nagoya , and Osaka - but at present it 's being extended to 42.8 km to be finished by 2013/2014 , at which point the 9 trillion Yen ( !!!! ) project to build the new fast Shinkansen will kick off ( it got approved earlier this year ) . Citizens of Yamanashi Prefecture and government officials in the area are eligible for free rides , and over 200,000 people have taken part thus far . <URL> has a population of around 860,000 - so that 's quite an impressive number of the city . HOWEVER , for paying customers ( unless you 're willing to settle in Yamanashi for a while and become a resident ! ) rides wo n't restart on the test track until they near completion of this current upgrade - likely on weekends and during the summer holiday time in 2013 or later ( if it runs over schedule ) , according to <URL> . So short answer , unless you move there or join the government , you 're going to have to wait a couple of years . And now you 've got me considering a trip to Japan in 2013 ;)
The Gjendesheim cabin does not open until mid June and the buses do not operate in the off-peak season . I do n't know when you are planning to go in September , but I would expect the buses to stop operating around mid September . Time tables for this summer are not available yet . Since the Norwegian Railways and many bus companies operate with demand-based pricing , it is difficult to compare prices without having a specific date to search for . Since the bus timetables are not available yet , you will also not be able to search for exact prices until you can select a specific departure . Your price search for railway tickets is incorrect . Norwegian Railways offer saver fares starting at 249 NOK for any distance in Norway . At least with some luck and ordering well in advance , you can get train tickets from Bergen to Otta as well for 249 NOK . Going from Oslo , the fastest and cheapest option is probably to take the Valdres-Ekspressen bus directly from Oslo via Fagernes to Gjendesheim . The bus will take about 4.5 hours and I would expect tickets to start somewhere between 300 and 350 NOK , perhaps even less if you are lucky . Going from Bergen , the train via Otta is a substantial detour . Taking the bus from Bergen via Fagernes to Gjendesheim will take about 8 hours with prices starting around 600 NOK . If you are open for other destinations than Gjendesheim , there are of course many other locations you can use as an entry point to the national park or the Jotunheimen area in general , but you have to expect that public transport is scarce in the most remote areas , if available at all .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
My parents live in Anuradhapura and I live in Kandy , and I make this trip up and down at least once a month . The earliest Intercity from A/pura to Kandy is at 4.30-5 AM from A/pura . Reaches Kandy at about 7.30 AM , depends on the traffic . The last bus departs at 7.30 PM , reaches Kandy at 9.30-10PM but you will not find any other buses in A6 road ( Kandy to Mahiyangana road which has many tourist hotels ) , Three-wheelers are available but expect to pay a slightly higher price . For A1 ( Kandy to Colombo ) , you will find a bus even at the mid-night . Kandy to A/pura buses are available every 30 mins from 6.30 AM to 6.45 PM . You can call +94252225257 ( A/pura bus depot ) and ask them if they have buses available . Also , there are 2 routes in between A/pura and Kandy . 42 and 43 . A/C buses are only available in 43 because the 42 is a little bumpy road near A/pura . Buses in 42 route , IMO , are very uncomfortable compared to 43 's .
This may be better suited for photography.SE Generally speaking your requirement of time lapse photography you will need a permit if you will be on <URL> and explanation of <URL> . When it comes to private buildings access to using the observation deck or the roof is regulated by the building owner . Normally places with accessible observation decks forbid tripods without a <URL> because they take too much space . There are <URL> that make suggestions on what to do instead . So the option you choose is up to you .
There are really dozens of tour operators that offers tours to the Salt Mines . I would recommend to use collect some flyers and compare the conditions . I personally can recommend the tour that is provided by the <URL> . They have an agreement with a tour operator that picks you up directly in front of the hostel and then drives you there in a comfortable minibus . After the tour you 're picked up at the mines and you can again leave the minibus directly in front of the hostel or in the old town center . The price was 10 Euro per person including everything , which I personally think is very reasonable . But we got a student discount of 50 % , so the normal price is a little bit higher . I assume that other tour operators have more or less the same offers .
According to the <URL> there is nothing that goes directly to Venezia . There are 2 bus companies that service the Bergamo airport as well <URL> which could get you to Milan or Brescia and then you would have to take the train . The other one <URL> will only get you to Milan and then you can take a train or a bus . But based on what I am reading <URL> it 's not preferred and what you save may not be worth it . But if you still choose to go check out this site : <URL>
There are definitely buses between Ooty and Coimbatore , but you may have to change in Mettupalayam . They also run through Coonor . Looking at my travelog , it took about three hour from Coimbatore to Mettupalayam which is relatively flat . But the part between Ooty and Mettupalayam is much slower but really nice . Also the bus station you arrive at in Coimbatore is not in the center , and it will take a while to get from there to the train station . I think if you take an early bus in Ooty you can make it in time for your train , but taking the toy train may take too much time . If you have enough time , take the toy train the day before and then the bus back to Ooty in the afternoon . The toy train was very busy when I was there earlier this year , you had to make reservations weeks in advanced . Just double-check at the bus station in Ooty .
As far as I know there is no such website or app that allows to book last-minute cheap flights . So you have to use any of the well-known services . In particular , the flight trip between Barcelona and Madrid ( or viceversa ) is known as " puente aereo " ( literally " aerial bridge " ) and in general the cheapest company that operates this route is <URL> ( 13 flights per day ) . Prices starts from 50-70 $ but it depends on the schedule . Also the high-speed train is a good option and the bus is the cheapest option .
I did this in January 2014 and I 'll try to address your questions : 1 ) Renting a car in El Calafate is no problem . After some googeling and reading reviews in the Internet , I decided to opt for and never regretted the decision . They reliably picked us up from the Airport , even though our flight was a couple of hours late and in generally everything worked without a hassle . They also provided us with a map of the region and told us where we should refuel since petrol stations are quite rare in this area . 2 ) Driving to Torres del Paine was also not a problem . Just leave El Calafate on the eastern side of the city and follow the road towards the Airport . Pass the airport and follow then Highway 40 to La Esperanza . A couple of kilometers before Cancha Carrera , you will pass Tapi Aike . Stop there at the petrol station and refuel your car . That 's the last petrol station before the border and there wo n't be any petrol station in the national park and also not between the Chilean border and the national park . At the border crossing in Cancha Carrera ( be aware , Google Maps does not know this road ) leave the highway and follow an unmarked dirt road for a couple of kilometers . Finally , you will reach some buildings that look like farms , but that is actually the border crossing . Stop there , go into one of the buildings with your passport and the car insurance card . The whole procedure just took a couple of minutes , even though they could n't find our passports on their obscure list of countries in the world . However , after another few kilometers , you reach the Chilean border . Directly after the Chilean border , there is a restaurant and souvenir shop . Sometimes they have gas there , so ask for José , the chef , and see if he can sell you some gas . Then depending where on the national park you want to go , there are various options , but probably , just follow the road Y-200 . Be aware that there is no petrol station in the national park . 3 ) At most head trails , there are big parking spaces where you could park your car for a couple of days . I think it should be a problem at all . However , I would maybe thinking about putting a visible note in the car with your expected return date , so that park rangers are not going to search for you when they notice that the car is there for several days . 4 ) Same procedure as 2 , but in the opposite direction .
I have always been recommended to look for a repellent that contains Deet as this is the most effective agent in repelling midges . However , in practice I find these repellents only work for a short time and you are back to getting eaten again quite quickly . Some old wives ' tales claim that <URL> leaves , crushed and rubbed on the skin to give off their strong smell , can be a repellent . This method certainly provides relief but is not very effective . If you really want to keep away from midges , avoid being outside in the evening and at dusk . Also avoid shade and areas of boggy ground . I 've found the midges to be much more aggressive in the north west Highlands than in other parts of the country . Unlike mosquitoes , midges do not normally come into your home . You can comfortably sleep with your window open without any problem . Another biting bug in Scotland , not so well-known but worth looking out for is the horsefly ( local known as the " Clegg " ) . This is a large insect . It is found in areas where there are horses but also where there are many deer - that is , most of Scotland 's country-side . I used to kill 6 or 7 every year . They are relatively slow and easy to swat but they do n't make much buzzing and might go unnoticed until they bite . I 've only been bitten once and it felt like a large hypodermic needle was being pushed into my shin . The wound they leave can take months to heal completely .
You 're doing something wrong -- Cleveland has <URL> to both <URL> and <URL> .
end question
start question
Is hitchhiking permitted in the Faroe Islands ?
The Faroe Islands are <URL> ( albeit self-governing ) . <URL> , it 's legal to hitch in Denmark , apart from on motorways : Destination boards are recommended . For safety reasons , it is illegal to hitchhike on the expressways , so it is better to use the on ramps and service areas . When crossing by ferry , try to get into a car that already paid for the ticket . This is backed up in <URL> which states that it 's generally rare , but easy , legal and you 're not usually expected to pay for the ride .
The 30,000 Islands is a big area ( as the name kind of implies ) . A paddle boat or rowboat is not going to cover more than a tiny fraction of them . However if that 's OK for your uncle , then there are several places you can rent boats in the 30,000 Islands area . Essentially you need to look for a marina on Georgian Bay rather than some other lake . Two places that I know have them are : <URL> <URL> ( for example <URL> ) I would expect to find facilities at Midland , Port Severn and Parry Sound as well . Honey Harbour has the advantage of being right in the middle of the islands . At Midland or Penetanguishene there is going to be substantial open water between you and the islands , which may not be a good idea for a beginner boater . If you stay at the <URL> you can borrow canoes , kayaks and pedal boats for free , and rent fishing boats . However it 's in one of the more crowded areas of the 30,000 Islands ( in terms of boating traffic ) . Unless your uncle has an extremely small car , it probably can carry either a canoe or a kayak . Canoes fit easily on compact car roofs , and the equipment to do so can be very cheaply rented from any good canoe rental place . If he has not done much boating you uncle might also consider renting a small boat with an outboard motor . They are rented frequently to fishermen , and are probably safer than a rowboat or paddleboat , as well as allowing you to see much more of the islands . Finally there are good boat cruises round the 30,000 Islands out of Penetanguishene and Midland .
Living ( and traveling ) in the US , I have never in a decade encountered any bed bugs . Maybe if you stay in the hourly-hotels class , I would n't know , but even the cheapest chain hotels can not afford this to happen . I think it 's mostly a hype and not a serious problem at all .
Japan does not have a general " <URL> " like Scandinavian countries , wild camping on public land is theoretically illegal and wild camping on private property requires the landowner 's permission . That said , both rules are only loosely enforced and there 's a bit of a tradition of " <URL> " ( 野宿 nojuku ) in Japan : simply put , if you pitch up a tent or even sleep on a bench in an out-of-the-way place so that you do n't disturb anybody and do n't make a mess , you 're unlikely to be disturbed either . I 've done this a few times and never had a problem , just pitch your tent late and head out early , or ask permission . ( courtesy me and my tent ) Also , Japanese campsites tend to be pretty cheap , eg . the view above in <URL> cost me all of & yen ; 500 and that included showers . Hokkaido has lots of similar camping options , occasionally even including a nearby natural hot spring ( eg . Wakoto near Lake Akan , Onuma near Hakodate , etc. ) For the specific case of Daisetsuzan , these are some pretty serious mountains and the traverse is not an easy hike . While there are campsites , some of them free , most people opt to stay in the huts , which are cheap and considerably more comfortable if there 's bad weather , plus you do n't have to lug a tent around ! See <URL> and , in particular , <URL> for details .
Accommodation in Stanley includes numerous bed and breakfasts as well as a handful of hotels . You can have a look at weather conditions for the Falkland Islands on <URL> . Several <URL> in the main town of Stanley as well . Visa requirements will differ depending on what passport you have . However , you can look at <URL> , which indicates that for a visitor visa at least , for example , New Zealanders do n't require a visa to visit :) For WORKING , however , I have a few sources of information for you : <URL> from the Government , including pension schemes and the like . From the <URL> , they indicate that for visas , you should contact as follows : To apply for a visa to visit the Falkland Islands , please contact the Falkland Islands Government Office in London ( +44 20 7222 2542 or Reception@falklands.gov.fk ) to request a visa form .
Is it safe ? Safe is a broad word , and nobody can be absolutely certain about safety . You 'd consider driving or taking a plane ' safe ' , presumably , but crashes happen sometimes too . It 's relative . So now that we establish that , we can look at hitchhiking . Is it safe ? Depends on who sees you , who picks you up , and how you react . We actually have a post on this site on <URL> ( although really , you ca n't ensure it , you can only increase the odds of being safe ) . That may be worth a read to you . Generally , yes , travelling in numbers increases your odds of safety . You have someone else to make a decision with , and if you get into trouble , your numbers are boosted . There 's a wiki for hitching called <URL> . I definitely suggest looking at that for how to hitchhike in the countries you 're aiming at . I 've hitched in a few Western European countries , and had zero problems . Most drivers just want someone to talk to on the journey , and I 've still got some of them on Facebook . However , my experience is just anecdotal , much like the ' people you know ' stories you mentioned , and in the end you 'll have to weigh up the small risk with the rewards and decide if it 's for you or not . Note : <URL> .
If you have a GSM phone ( with a SIM-card ) , <URL> is likely to work in many places ( see the list in the link ) . Note that it will work whether you 're roaming , or do n't have a SIM in the phone at all and the phone is locked . That 's basically the only number you 're guaranteed by the GSM standard to always be able to dial , and the mobile operators are required to redirect it to whatever it locally should be .
I have n't seen Bridget Jones : the Edge of Reason specifically , but karst islands in Thailand have been used in a couple of other movies . <URL> , for example , was used in The Man With the Golden Gun ( 1974 ) ; and <URL> was used in the 2000 film The Beach . Both of these locations are on the Andaman Sea ( the southwest coast of Thailand ) .
Yes it is valid in the UK , according to the <URL> : If you 've got a full and valid licence you can drive any small vehicle ( eg car or motorcycle ) listed on your licence for 12 months from when you last entered Great Britain ( GB ) .
It depends on which trains you 're using , as they differ from service to service . A <URL> covers much of this . I 'll try and summarise : Sun and Ski Thalys - only guide dogs Thalys - small and guide dogs = free in a basket . Bigger dogs = buy a ticket . TGV - yes , but must buy a ticket and be in a box or muzzled and on a leash . Eurostar - only guide dogs . ICE - yes , with exceptions , tickets to be purchased . Domestic Netherlands trains - yes , <URL> apply : A small pet that fits into a bag or basket or can be kept on your lap may free on the train . For leashed pets you must purchase a Day Pass dog . Regardless of your destination this ticket costs $ 3 . Note that each rail carrier uses other terms and rules . If you have an OV-year subscription , you may take one dog free .
<URL> As my other answer said , the larger islands ( like Wolfe island and Howe island ) are accessible by car ferry . The smaller islands ( anything where the map does n't show a road ) are mostly privately owned and not accessible to the public . The exceptions are those that are specifically open as tourist attractions . Two of the main ones are : Boldt Castle on Heart island Singer Castle on Dark island <URL> owns several of the islands and various sites in the area . They are generally accessible to the public , but do n't have much to see on them . Places open to tourists in the area of the Thousand islands include : Boat cruises out of Kingston or Gananoque Various War of 1812 battle sites Martello tower at Kingston
Passports are your ID when traveling globally . Driver licenses and national IDs are not always accepted as a form of ID in many countries . As such everyone who needs to verify your identification will ask to see your passport . For flights to the USA , there is often several layers of security employed . The first is a security check before you reach the check in counter , with a number of questions regarding destination , what you might be carrying etc. . They will check your passport . When you check in for the flight , the airline will need to document your identity ( via your passport ) and also if you have the proper visas or permissions to enter the country , as the airline will be fined if they knowingly board you without proper documents . Departing Immigration is only concerned about your visit to their country , they could care less if you are permitted to enter the next destination . At the gate , another layer of the US imposed security will again check your passport , boarding pass and sometimes even look through your carry on bags . They may also ask if you have the necessary documentation to enter the country . Why this last security check ... because you could give your boarding pass to someone else after you have checked in , someone who has less than desirable ideas in mind . And as I mentioned in my comment , it is impossible for any of these people to know all the rules for all the passports that might be presented . Too many rules and exceptions .
So I found an answer in a <URL> , although someone may have a more detailed route , especially as it gets closer to the Olympics themselves .
Georgia 's Reforms Associates <URL> called FactCheck <URL> : Conclusion Our research has established that in Georgia certain professions have nationality restrictions due to national and public interests . In order to bring in a verdict , we must also take international experience into consideration . Both strict and lenient , there are certain restrictions and limitations in Europe , the US and CIS countries for granting a work permit to foreign citizens . There are , however , no such limitations in Georgia and any alien can start working in Georgia without any permission ( only a temporary residence permit is necessary after the visa has expired ) . Compared to the current situation , the initiated draft bill regulates the immigration policy of the country . Based upon the abovementioned , we conclude that the statement of Paata Kvizhinadze : " Any foreign citizen could work in our country without any restrictions or quotas . This practically never happens in Europe , the US or CIS countries , " is TRUE . Since the old law allowing for 360 days visas has been <URL> , it is highly likely that there are no employment restrictions for citizens of visa-on-arrival countries . The <URL> also fails to list any restrictions on people arriving to Georgia on tourist visas .
This is only anecdotal , as I travelled by bus in Morocco , but I met many other backpackers who did travel by train and they did n't report any problems . As I answered to a previous question , <URL> . <URL> does n't give any warnings - and the trains look quite comfy too !
So after talking to a friend in Port Moresby , it appears that : Alotau has daily flights from Port Moresby with <URL> or <URL> Normandy Island , he reckons you may have to charter a boat from Alotau which defeats the point of accessibility Solomon Islands also fly from Port Moresby with <URL> . Conclusion : Alotau appears to be the one to go for , in terms of both accessibility and price .
The main bar area is along Via de ' Benci / Via Giuseppe Verdi , and some of the side streets . There are lots of different kinds of bars and some clubs there , <URL> ( Ponte alle Grazie ) <URL> , maybe 500 m north . See the map , just like the hostel guy drew it : <URL> The map I got from the hostel , with main bar area marked on the right-hand side It was quite busy , although I 'd expect it to be really busy in summer . There may be " lesser " bar areas too , e.g. across the river <URL> ( also marked on the map ) . And someone mentioned that some ( fancier ? ) nightclubs are located quite far in the suburbs , a taxi ride away . I did n't try those . Also , there 's <URL> on piazza S. Maria Novella , closer to the central station .
I asked my Turkish friends and here 's what they had to say : although major cities do have water filtration plants and water is considered drinkable at the source , the quality of water pipes that supply it within a building or in specific localities might be suspect . You are , thus , better off not drinking tap water straight unless you 're using it after boiling ( or in foods/drinks where water is boiled in the process ) or filtering .
The official licensing authority in Namibia is the <URL> . The The Namibian Comunications Commission appears to have been replaced in <URL> . The CRAN web site is awful and I ca n't find anything on it . Instead , I searched for sites linking or mentioning cran.na and found the <URL> saying : Guest Licences for Radio Amateurs visiting Namibia In Namibia , there is only one application form which applies for all kinds of spectrum users ( from Commercial Broadcasting Service up to Citizen Band Service ) . This may seem unusual , but has been officially implemented by CRAN and thus has to be used also when applying for a guest licence . The site provides a link with an <URL> . You must attach a copy of your home licence and pay 60N $ ( approx USD$ 4 ) The cheapest way of paying your guest licence is in cash after your arrival in Namibia at the office of CRAN . Then your licence will be handed out directly to you . CRAN can send the licence to your contact person 's P.O.Box in Namibia if you pay in advance via the expensive electronic banking or via your local contact person . The issued guest licence is valid for the complete calendar year . I would recommend that you attempt to <URL> the site owners if you require further information .
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
end question
start question
How to get to/from Washington Dulles International Airport ?
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
Options I found : Fly directly from Singapore to <URL> for circa 90 USD . Bus from Singapore to <URL> with <URL> for circa 3 USD , then direct flight to <URL> with Airasia for circa 40 USD . So a total of circa ** USD ** . Note that <URL> . I took this bus in May 2015 &amp; it took around 1h45 to do the bus journey at a low-peak time , allow at least 3h if travelling on a week end or public holiday . Fly to <URL> ( Malaysia ) for circa 30 USD , then fly to <URL> for circa 30 USD . Found those prices using <URL> . So a total of circa 60 USD Take the ferry to <URL> for circa 22 USD ( 45 min ride ) , then take another ferry to <URL> with the <URL> for circa 25 USD ( this one is a long ride , 6 to 8h ) . As explained in <URL> " To buy the ticket from Dumai , you need to visit a ticket agent who will sort you out -- there 's no need to go to the port to buy a ticket . " , &amp; there does seem to be only 1 ( yes one ! ) ferry per day . So this means potentially having to stay in Batam overnight ( who knows ? ) . Then <URL> for circa 13 USD . So a total of circa 60 USD All in all , my research seem to always point to taking a plane rather than a ferry ... unless you really have a special reason for avoiding planes ( transporting loads of luggages , transporting a bike , fear of planes , or else ) . Here is another good reason not to take the ferry in Indonesia <URL> Note : you must add circa 12 USD to every flight with AirAsia if you have a checked baggage Note regarding trains going from Singapore to Johor Bahru : There 's no point in taking the train to JB , the new terminal is very inconvenient and services are infrequent and unreliable . Take a bus instead . Final note : there is nothing " special " to do in Medan , so if you arrive before 4pm try to plan your journey to your final destination straight from Medan ( typically using a tourist bus or a public bus ) , roads can be dangerous at night so many transports do not work when it 's dark ( after 7pm ) . The hotel/hostel hosting you can provide more info , it 's a typical thing to do . Resources : AirAsia route map : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
From Genova ( Piazza Principe or Brignole ) , take a regional train with the destination of La Spezia Centrale . There are direct trains to 3 of the 5 villages , so depending on your preference , buy a ticket to one of : Monterosso ( northernmost ) Vernazza ( 2nd from north ) Riomaggiore ( southernmost ) But note that there are many more direct connections to Monterosso than to Vernazza and Riomaggiore . To Monterosso travel time is 1h 45 min , and it costs 6.60 $ ( Nov 2012 ) . Buy the ticket from the station ; remember to stamp it on one of the Italian-flag-coloured devices near the platform before boarding the train . There 's roughly one regional train per hour , from 04:53 until about 22:00 . Here 's an example of the timetable for one such regional train : There are also direct intercity trains to Monterosso every few hours that take 1h 15min and cost 9.50 $ . For more details , try the <URL> ( e.g. Genova Piazza Principe to Monterosso ) . In my case it was slightly run-down urban 2-storey carriage with dirty windows . Not as charming as the villages , but gets you there quite smoothly . :)
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
The google maps page you link is n't an accurate representation of the walk - your end point is n't really anywhere near the airport terminals . <URL> is a bit more realistic . I 'd reccommend getting a taxi - # 8 or less for the journey would be my estimate . Your concerns about walking are in fact perfectly justified - the route to the airport from the town centre is mostly not along streets with pavement , and while it 'll most likely be safe from the perspective of worrying about getting mugged , it wo n't be a pleasant stroll . As to getting from there to Watford , you 've identified the right bus . Other than that , the train journey you mentioned you 're trying to avoid is the only other obvious choice - it 'll be quicker , but more expensive . Source : Lived in Luton for a year , made several trips from the north of town to the airport . Used the train lines in that area extensively .
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
There 's a railway station at Old Trafford itself , handily called " Manchester United Foodball Ground " . Looking at the <URL> it looks to be right by the stadium , and <URL> concurs . The <URL> suggests that trains to Old Trafford depart from Manchester Picaddilly , so that should make things easy . However , <URL> suggests trains only stop there on match days , so it depends if you 're going to see the stadium , or a match there . There are <URL> Metrolink tram stations a short walk away , Exchange Quay and Old Trafford . If it is n't a match day , your best bet is probably to change onto the tram to get there .
According to the official <URL> there are two places you can use as your source . Rejkjavik and Copenhagen . There are 2 airlines servicing the island : <URL> and <URL> . The price Air Iceland is currently quoting for destinations in Greenland is 161 EUR ( Kulusuk ) and 193 EUR ( Nuuk ) . I guess the further north the more expensive it gets since you will probably need a helicopter ride . Could not find the ferries but there are cruises from Europe that will take you around Northern sites including Greenland . There are multiple sites referring to that but they may be exactly the same cruise : <URL> <URL>
You can take the metro from Ataturk Airport to Esenler " Otogar " ( much nearer than Harem ) . From the <URL> , you can see the timetable , Metro runs until Midnight ( 00.00 ) . From Esenler Otogar you can get a suitable coach for your travel .
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Get the 4am Southern train service from London Victoria , gets you into Gatwick at 4.46 am There 's also a 4.30 am Gatwick Express that 'll get you in at just gone 5am , but tickets are bit more on that . See <URL> for examples for tomorrow ( well , that URL will always work for the coming Tuesday , but the site has a search ! ) ( There 's also the option to stay in Brighton , and get the <URL> to Gatwick , but you 'll probably find London both easier to get to and cheaper to stay in , even if it lacks a beach ! )
The fastest way to get into town quickly ( barring a taxi , which is expensive and whose speed depends on traffic conditions ) is the commuter trains , <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) . These trains are also cheaper than the Metro when you 're going from or to the airport ( $ 1,75 for a 3-zone Cercanías ticket , vs $ 5 for a Metro ticket from the airport to the city ) . The downside of Cercanías is that they stop at fewer places . Line C-1 , which starts at the airport , stops at Recoletos , which is about 700m from the eastern end of Gran Via . You can change at Nuevos Ministerios for line 3 or 4 and get off at Sol , the next stop : that 's about 300 to 500m from anywhere on Gran Via . You can go from the ticket machines at the airport to street level on Puerta del Sol in 30min , not counting the time to wait for the train at the airport ; the train only runs every 30min . If you want to go to a precise Metro station , change for the Metro in the city . You 'll need a separate Metro ticket : $ 2 , or possibly down to $ 1.50 if your Metro trip is no more than 9 stations long . If you 're going to take the Metro a lot , get a 10-trip ticket for $ 12 . You can change at Chamartín and take line 1 to Gran Via , or change at Nuevos Ministerios and either take line 6 and change at Cuatro Caminos for line 1 to Gran Via , or take line 10 then change again at Tribunal for line 1 , or simply get off at Tribunal and walk a bit . You can also take the <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) all the way from the airport : take line 8 , change at Nuevos Ministerios for line 10 ( see above ) or change at Colombia for line 9 then at Núñez de Balboa for line 5 to Gran Via . The trip takes a little over an hour , so although the metros are more frequent , this does n't compensate for their being slower than Cercanías . I do n't know the station maps , but generally changing between Cercanías and the Metro is no more inconvenient than changing between two Metro lines . Avoid changing to Cercanías at Chamartín as finding the right platform can be a bit annoying .
2-3pm is not rush hour in Tokyo . However , many central subway stations in Tokyo require you to climb flights of stairs to enter , exit or transfer lines , which is not much fun with large bags , and while there 's usually a single elevator somewhere , this can add a lengthy detour . If you can tell me exactly where you 're going , I can try to recommend a least-bad route . If you 've got large bags and/or are unfamiliar with Tokyo , the Limousine bus direct to your hotel is usually the best option , but availability depends on the destination . I 'd suggest two other alternatives : Take the airport train to the nearest major taxi station , then a taxi to your final destination . ( This is what I usually do . ) A cab from Tokyo Station to most destinations in Chiyoda should be less than 1000 yen . Ship your bags directly from the airport to your hotel with <URL> . This is particularly useful if you 're hardcore and plan to go to the office/customer site before your hotel . Same-day delivery for a full-size suitcase is ~ 2400 yen and the service is extremely reliable ( although at 2 PM you will most likely get it delivered the next morning ) .
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
The Gjendesheim cabin does not open until mid June and the buses do not operate in the off-peak season . I do n't know when you are planning to go in September , but I would expect the buses to stop operating around mid September . Time tables for this summer are not available yet . Since the Norwegian Railways and many bus companies operate with demand-based pricing , it is difficult to compare prices without having a specific date to search for . Since the bus timetables are not available yet , you will also not be able to search for exact prices until you can select a specific departure . Your price search for railway tickets is incorrect . Norwegian Railways offer saver fares starting at 249 NOK for any distance in Norway . At least with some luck and ordering well in advance , you can get train tickets from Bergen to Otta as well for 249 NOK . Going from Oslo , the fastest and cheapest option is probably to take the Valdres-Ekspressen bus directly from Oslo via Fagernes to Gjendesheim . The bus will take about 4.5 hours and I would expect tickets to start somewhere between 300 and 350 NOK , perhaps even less if you are lucky . Going from Bergen , the train via Otta is a substantial detour . Taking the bus from Bergen via Fagernes to Gjendesheim will take about 8 hours with prices starting around 600 NOK . If you are open for other destinations than Gjendesheim , there are of course many other locations you can use as an entry point to the national park or the Jotunheimen area in general , but you have to expect that public transport is scarce in the most remote areas , if available at all .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
There are no direct connection that I 'm aware of . Your best bet is : From Ciampino to Roma Termini ( train station ) using the <URL> . The bus ticket is 3.90 Euros . From Roma Termini take the metro B line to Piramide stop From Piramide ( aka Porto San Paolo ) take the <URL>
I usually plan my trips with Google Maps . Put both address and click on the public transportation . In your case : <URL> This is a 2 hour travel time for 27 miles and about US$ 5.00 price ( two fares if you get bus and train ) . Notice that you can get the train from the airport parking directly instead of picking up a bus first . You may think about US$ 74.00 for a taxi from this site : <URL>
end question
start question
What is " employer letter " for Schengen when I 'm in college ?
The idea behind the employment letter is strong ties to your home country and steady income , and since you are not an employee this will not be required . A student ID should do . However , since you are a student you will need to prove that you can fund your trip , a good bank account statement or a letter from the sponsor will be mandatory .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
In practice , here is what you can do : Contact a consulate from your own country to get some travel document ( probably an emergency passport ) . Being in a foreign country without one is a perfectly valid reason for that ( even within Schengen ) . It will probably cost you some money and a bit of effort but it has worked for me before . Try your luck with the airline . Some of them like Ryanair are notorious for being picky about that but on some intra-Schengen flights you do n't have to show any ID . Even when an ID is in principle required and driver 's licenses are explicitly excluded , it 's possible to get lucky . This also worked for me before ( see below ) . Cancel your flight and travel back by train . There could still be a border check but it 's unlikely . Worse case scenario : You do get checked and the police/customs keep you for some time . You would still be better off than at the airport because you would already be in your country of residence and they should have means to verify your story . I have done that too , did see some border police officers but I was lucky enough not to be asked anything so I do n't know exactly what they would have done . On one occasion , I have been allowed to fly back home without passport/national ID but only a driver 's license and a few other things like an health insurance card . On their own , these documents prove nothing but they were helpful to convince the gate personnel that I was a resident of the destination country . They were very understanding and let me board the flight , stressing that they only did it because it was a Schengen flight . In summary : I would definitely contact the nearest consulate as soon as possible and consider changing plans but if that 's not possible , do try to board your return flight . Be upfront and honest , you could get lucky .
Yes , this is legitimate . <URL> was <URL> to operate and maintain toll roads in Orange County . When you entered one of the roads , you would have passed under an electronic sensor which reads FasTrak transponders from those who have them , and takes license plate pictures in order to bill those who do not . You also passed under such a sensor when you departed the toll road , and a sign which advised you to <URL> to <URL> . If you plan to drive that way again , you may wish to obtain a FasTrak ( which is good for most California toll roads and bridges ) , or sign up for an ExpressAccount , which bills tolls to your credit card each day you drive , or on a prepaid basis , but only works for The Toll Roads . They 're currently offering a <URL> promotion for signing up , which would cover your recent trip . Given where you live , though , you may find <URL> ( a FasTrak compatible system ) more advantageous ...
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
I think what you want is covered in the Frequently Asked Questions about Advance fares section of the National Rail Enquiries ( internal ) Knowledgebase ( iKB ) , which is n't available online officially . However , one of the nice members of Rail UK Forums <URL> in response to a <URL> Q25 - Can a passenger with an Advance ticket travel on an earlier connecting train ? A : Yes if it is non-reservable , no if it is reservable . An exception that benefits passengers : Where Virgin Trains East Coast is a connecting TOC from Stevenage via London and vice versa , e.g. " AP London-Reading " , or " VWC &amp; Connections " , Virgin Trains East Coast waives the need to travel on the exact Virgin Trains East Coast train booked on this relatively short journey Stevenage ↔ Kings Cross , even though retail systems will force a reservation to be made . So , it all depends on if seat reservations would 've been possible on the connecting train you want to take . If there are seat reservations possible , then an advanced ticket is only valid where you have a reservation on that service . Where no seat reservations are possible , a &amp; Connections ticket is Checking easily which trains can and ca n't have seats reserved is probably a different question ... If you ask staff at the station about a specific train they can tell you though !
As Mark mentioned it does depend on the airport and country , but as a general rule , the inspectors are only required to repack your items back into the suitcase they came out of . The plastic wrap is a disposable item and even if they slowly and carefully unwrapped it , it would be near impossible to rewrap . So plastic wrap would be tossed by any inspection after you have checked your bags . If you have something like a cardboard box and the plastic wrap was keeping it shut , then the inspector would likely use tape to close the box after completing the inspection .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
<URL> has a great collection of walks , including many in the Peak District . It has information on grading/difficulty , length , locations , detailed instructions , and items of interest along the way . It does not have detailed maps , but provides references to the relevant OS maps that should be taken along .
Travelling internationally without any travel document is between very difficult and impossible depending on the details . If you need to leave the Schengen area and re-enter , you definitely need a passport . You would in all likelihood be refused boarding by the airline or blocked from leaving the Schengen area by the border guards . If you are travelling within the Schengen area and have a residence card , it might still be possible in practice even if it 's not explicitly allowed . If you have nothing at all , you would probably still be able to physically cross the border but could get in serious trouble if you are found in another country with no document establishing your status . Even travelling in France is not without risk . Technically , you are supposed <URL> ( i.e. show your visa ) at any time if the police asks . If you do n't have your passport on you , they could detain you for some time to check your status . Obviously , the requirement to surrender your passport for a visa application puts you in an awkward situation but there is no easy way around that .
Ah , German nitpicking ... Willkommen in Deutschland ! But have no fear , since this is Germany there 's a well-defined process for appealing . The German Embassy in Manila , Philippines has a <URL> about how to apply for a " remonstration against " ( their term ! ) the visa rejection , and I 'm sure more or less the same process applies for the Chennai consulate . Quoting the relevant bits : You can remonstrate only in writing , and your remonstration must contain the following details : Your name , first name , date of birth , place of birth , and the number of your passport The date your application was rejected A serviceable address that contains the street name , house - or apartment number , City / Town / Village , postal code , if applicable : please state your e-mail address The remonstration must be signed by your own hand ( a remonstration by a third party e.g. your sponsor , can only be accepted and processed if you have given your sponsor a power of attorney , which is submitted with the remonstration ) . And If you applied for a visa of the category " C " ( Schengenvisa ) , the deadline for filing the remonstration is one ( 1 ) month after your received the letter of rejection . You can submit by mail , fax or e-mail , but if e-mail , you have to send in a scan of a printed letter with your signature . And obviously the better you can explain the discrepancy ( a revised letter and/or note from your office should do nicely ) , the higher the chances of success . Incidentally , if your remonstration also fails you can apparently try once more with the High Court in Berlin , but that 's probably a bit overkill for a tourist visa ...
You have a Schengen visa with start/end dates of 6/19 and 7/19 . Between these two dates you have been given a total of 20 days to spend in the zone . The issuer expects you to spend your 20 days between 6/19 and 7/19 . You are asking if it 's OK to enter the zone on 7/10 and leave on 7/30 because your visa will be valid on your entry date and will have 20 days of unspent leave on it . No . When a Schengen expires , all unspent leave is lost . In your case it means you will have 10 unspent days on 7/19 which are forfeit . Those days can not be used beyond the expiry date . Presumably the start/end dates and the 20 days sync up to the itinerary you provided when you obtained your visa . If there has been a material change in your itinerary , you can ask for your visa to be revoked and reissued to accommodate your new plans . They like it when people do this because it demonstrates a proactive attitude towards observing the rules . See also : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL> Also : <URL>
In the first step you would take the email you received to the police and tell them your story . If the police in your country are looking for someone and you provide them with a good reason to believe an absconded person is in France , they will know what to do . There is a global computer network connecting police departments in participating countries ; and if they think it 's appropriate they will use it . Others have mentioned contacting your consulate in France . It 's a good idea also , but note that the hospital would have notified either the police or consulate as a matter of procedure .
The idea behind the employment letter is strong ties to your home country and steady income , and since you are not an employee this will not be required . A student ID should do . However , since you are a student you will need to prove that you can fund your trip , a good bank account statement or a letter from the sponsor will be mandatory .
No , you only have to provide the itinerary for your first trip , as well as a justification for why you need a multi-entry visa . E.g. here 's what the <URL> says about multi-entry visas : Multiple-entry visas may be issued with a period of validity between six months and five years , where the following conditions are met : ( a ) The applicant proves the need or justifies the intention to travel frequently and/or regularly , in particular due to his occupational or family status , such as business persons , civil servants engaged in regular official contacts with Member States , and EU institutions , representatives of civil society organisations travelling for the purpose of educational training , seminars and conferences , family members of citizens of the Union , family members of third-country nationals legally residing in Member States and seafarers ; and ( b ) The applicant proves his integrity and reliability , in particular the lawful use of previous uniform visas or visas with limited territorial validity , his economic situation in the country of origin and his genuine intention to leave the territory of the Member States before the expiry of the visa applied for . Otherwise the requirements for applying for a multi-entry visa are exactly the same .
You really should not use the bus for this trip - if you do n't like Russian trains , you 'll definitely will not like the buses on our roads . There are a lot of ferry companies serving this route and I recommend you to visit the <URL> on Volgograd and choose appropriate ( <URL> , for example ) . Main problem for you is to get the ticket only one-way - all companies generally sell roundtrip .
I would recommend Ambleside : there 's a frequent bus service ( 555 ) from Windermere ( which it is very close to ) and you can do day-hikes without a bus to Grasmere and quite a few fells ( e.g. Fairfield ) . With short bus trip ( at least in Summer ) you can get up the Langdale valley , and on to Coniston or towards Keswick for day-hikes on some classic hills ( the Old Man of Coniston , Helvellyn , etc. ) You might also consider Keswick itself ( about 30 mins by bus from Penrith station ) which is handy for Blencathra and Skiddaw hikes and Derwent Water .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
When you meet them . You may well get " reverse omiyage " from your friend when you 're leaving , though !
There are no Schengen wide regulations on how to react on visa violations and overstays . Each member state is free to set their own penalties and reactions . Overstays are usually settled with a fine , but in severe cases , you can also be banned from entering Schengen for a period of time . I ca n't find any current rates , but in 2011 Switzerland issued fines between 200 and 650 CHF for overstaying . In this case , the Swiss immigration officer most probably did n't notice your overstay . When applying for a national visa , you must assume that the consulate will do a more thorough examination of your travel history , especially to the Schengen area , and that the overstay will be noticed and most likely cause problems . You write in a comment : It 's absolutely clear that my overstaying in 28 days is fixed in data base ... Fortunately , this is actually not the case . There is no Schengen wide database for entries and exits and even if some countries operate their own databases , the data is not complete and not suitable to track your travel history . Since currently the only trace of your overstay are the entry and exit stamps in your passport , this might actually be one of the few cases where " losing " your old passport and applying for a new one will solve your problem .
end question
start question
Did the Wakkanai-Sakhalin ferry definitely cease operations in 2015 , and is there going to be another ferry in its place this summer ( 2016 ) ?
Actually , just found the <URL> . The article states that SASCO had signed an agreement to resume the Ferry service from Sakhalin to Hokkaido using " Пингвин-33 " as a ship . <URL>
The airlines will not care ; they might call out your name a few times - but they will consider you a no-show . As far as immigration is concerned , as long as you have a valid visa for the US , they also do not care . So , the answer to your question is : No , you do n't have to notify the airline . The immigration will not have problems . They might ask you why you stayed , and if so , you should just tell them the truth . The only thing that raises eyebrows is if you pay cash for a one-way ticket at the last minute . So , try to pay for your final trip online with a credit card or book it through an agent .
Two days ago I took the Weidong ferry from Qingdao to Incheon , while both the Lonely Planet book and the ferry company web site state 775 CNY as the cheapest fare ( economy bed ) plus 30 CNY port tax = 805 CNY , the actual ticket was just 458 + 30 = 488 CNY <URL> Both China and South Korea have National holidays soon , so I do n't think this was an off-season price . One of the most interesting part of the sail was going through the locks into port of Incheon : <URL>
It 's not Japan , it is Russia ! Wikipedia has a good article about <URL> .
Any of the major car rental companies will allow a " One-way " rentals . Occasionally there are restrictions around specific locations , but in general if you 're planning to go from a major airport to another major airport you 'll have no problems at all . The issue is the price , which can vary dramatically depending on a number of factors . Some rental companies will charge a " drop fee " which will be a fixed amount , sometimes based on the distance between the two locations . Others will charge a higher per-day rate for one-way rentals . Some others will not charge extra for the rental , but will charge you an additional fee based on the number of miles you travel on the trip ( ie , the actual miles you drive , not the straight-line distance between the two locations ) . The best option is to look around at all of the various rental companies for the specific city pair and dates you 're after - if possible in both directions as sometimes it 's cheaper in one direction than the other . Travel websites like Orbitz.com can be good as they will show you multiple companies in one search , but sometimes for one-way you 'll get better rates when searching directly on the rental car companies site . Occasionally the rental companies will run " deals " for one-way rentals when they have a need to get cars out of a location - a few years ago I did a 3-day rental from Portland , OR to San Francisco , CA for a total cost of less than $ 20 ! These details are often listed on the rental car websites , but be careful as they do often have some strict restrictions such as no more than 7 days total rental . eg , Hertz currently has a deal for pickup in Arizona and drop-off in California , Colorado , Kansas , New Mexico , Oklahoma , Utah or Texas for <URL> !
It 's possible , but you would have to charter your own speedboat , which would be stupidly expensive : quotes on the net vary from 8000 baht for a privately negotiated transfer to 15000 baht ( ! ) to getting the Holiday Inn to pick you up in their own boat . Staying another night and taking the ferry across the next day will thus almost certainly be cheaper . In addition , the feasibility and cost of this will depend on weather conditions , and the crossing will be actively dangerous if your departure is delayed for any reason and you end up doing it at night : those speedboats are fast and you 're screwed if you hit anything in the dark . Also , Destination Air used to offer a seaplane shuttle for 5000 baht/seat , but this stopped running a few years ago .
While I 'm not in Tbilisi myself , my wife and children are at present in Georgia , having been in Tbilisi during the flood and the following week , although they now went to the summer house in the mountains . I have been speaking with them almost daily - so this is almost a first person account . Severe flooding did occur a couple of weeks ago in Tbilisi , resulting in both human and animal deaths and many injuries and physical losses . The long-term effect of it though is n't that great , from what I understand . The only long term " damage " as far as the tourism is concerned is the zoo . It was all but wiped out by the floods . It 's not open to the public at present . Other than that , the city continues operating just as it did before . There 's water , electricity and gas ; telephone network and internet are fine ; public transport runs fine ; all shops , restaurants , etc. are open ; museums are open according to their normal summer opening hours . Public paths along Kura are open , however parts of them are rather wet from rains that took place over the last week or so . Naturally , the aftermath is still visible in Mziuri park and the Heroes Square , as well as throughout the city , but all these places are open to the public . So , all in all , it 's still a great place to visit . I myself will be flying there at the end of July - but I have family there , so floods or no floods , I 'd have to go . If you 're interested in any specific venue or place , it should be easy to find that out .
You have the right to <URL> for a Canadian passport that does not show your place of birth . This implies that having it in your passport may cause problems in some cases . The disclaimers on that page further suggest that not having it in your passport may cause problems , too . To quote from <URL> : You may request that your place of birth does not appear in the passport . However , if you chose to do so , note that : Place of birth is mandatory for entry to some countries . You should contact the consulate or embassy of every country you plan to visit to ensure that you will be allowed entry if your passport does not indicate your place of birth . You may have difficulty obtaining a visa . You may experience delays at border crossings . Wikipedia also <URL> : The People 's Republic of China will not issue visas to Canadian passport holders whose place of birth is inscribed as being Hong Kong HKG , Macau MAC or ( city name ) TWN . Accordingly , passports issued to Canadians born in Hong Kong , Macau or Taiwan now only list the place of birth , without an accompanying three-letter country code , unless upon request . ... and ... Canadian citizens born in Jerusalem have their birthplace identified only by the city 's name , with no national designation , due to the unresolved legal status of Jerusalem . So yes , in some cases it may matter , but nothing so simple as " born in Lebanon ? Denied ! "
The high season is a lot more expensive than the low season . I 've just looked at a hire-car company that we 've used before in Iceland ( I 've been nearly 10 times in the last 6 years with work ) , and the rental price goes up by about 50 % a day in high season compared to low . The exact amount depends on which car you go for . The high season usually extends until the beginning of the last week of august be varies between companies . Finding activities you can usually improvise whilst there - and in fact I would suggest for some things it would be better as they are weather dependent . However , savings can usually be made booking in advance . Accommodation varies , if you are flexible with where you stay you can probably get away with improvising if you go off season , high season the approach is a bit riskier as places are generally busier . It depends slightly on how many of your there are in your group . Coming from the UK Iceland seems very big and spacious , and once in the south east it does n't feel crowded at all . Obviously the big tourist attractions like geysir , gullfoss , the blue lagoon , snow mobiling etc will always have lots of people , but for just hiking you 'll probably be ok .
When we got the passport for our daughter ( also German , then also < 1 year old ) we were told that we can have the photo in the existing passport updated for less than the price of a new passport . Children 's passports can also be <URL> and <URL> and a <URL> , and the time to appear in person - kid and both parents ( unless there is only one custodial parent ) , or kid , one parent and written permission and passport/ID of the other ) . Updating sounded optional the way our local office described it . Googling the problem turns up many personal reports of no problems occurring and even 7 year-olds travelling with essentially baby photos in their passport . We traveled when our daughter was three years older than on the photo and I only remember Turkish officials making friendly remarks about picture disparity ( as in " how cute " ) and nothing out of the ordinary when re-entering Germany . However , <URL> states ( 1 ) Ein Paß oder Paßersatz ist ungültig , wenn 1 . er eine einwandfreie Feststellung der Identität des Paßinhabers nicht zuläßt ... " A passport is invalid if it does not allow a flawless determination of the identity of the holder ... " , so there may be an interpretation of the law that supports the official you encountered . Also , <URL> : [ ... ] der Kinderreisepass [ kann ] bis zur Vollendung des zwölften Lebensjahres verlängert werden . Er ist mit einem aktuellen Lichtbild zu versehen . The final sentence states " The [ child 's passport ] must be equipped with an up-to-date photograph " , which occurs in the context of validity extension , but does not explicitly reference it .
It 's safe . Per both the <URL> and <URL> , radiation levels in Hokkaido are safe ( green ) at less than 0.05 microSieverts ( μSv ) per hour , or 1.2 μSv / day . For comparison , if you live in a brick or concrete house you get a dose of <URL> , and if you spend 14 hours on a plane , you will get a dose of <URL> from atmospheric radiation .
Prague 1 has both the biggest concentration of bars , clubs and old pubs , and the biggest concentration of sights . Check out the Foursquare map for the <URL> : And the <URL> : Therefore you should stay in Prague 1 . I can recommend staying near the <URL> , as that 's the nexus of Prague 's public transport .
There is no Terminal 2 . Terminals are assigned by airline , not by destination . There are divisions within each terminal for destination , but you start at the desk for your airline . Transat uses Terminal 3 . You can get this information for any airline from <URL> . If you are being driven to the airport by a paid professional ( taxi , shuttle bus etc ) , do n't tell them to take you to Terminal 3 . They might drop you at the wrong end or have to ask you more questions . Instead , tell them " Air Transat International " and they will take you to just the right place .
I called the passenger information number in Immingham and spoke with a live agent ... Foot passengers who do not have a vehicle will not be permitted to board on either side ; Passengers on push bikes may be permitted to board in the Immingham , unclear for the Brevik side ; The entry point in Immingham is covered by the same <URL> governing airlines , so the <URL> will be alerted from Brevik if they are carrying non-EEA passengers .
You really should not use the bus for this trip - if you do n't like Russian trains , you 'll definitely will not like the buses on our roads . There are a lot of ferry companies serving this route and I recommend you to visit the <URL> on Volgograd and choose appropriate ( <URL> , for example ) . Main problem for you is to get the ticket only one-way - all companies generally sell roundtrip .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
The answer depends very much on where you go . Backpacking/interrailing is quite popular in Europe , and many hostels will be full . Depending on your budget , it 's probably possible to do as you describe , but at two costs : You will lose money . If hostels are booked out you might be forced to book into a more expensive hotel ( perhaps even a business hotel ) . You will lose time . It might be a while before you have found a place for the night ...
I believe that it is the <URL> . It was built to celebrate the successful war ( s ) of independence of the Baltic states and Poland in 1918-1920 . Or maybe you mean the Maarjamaae War Monument on <URL> . This was a World War II memorial . <URL>
It 's not " Indians " that are pushy . Not " Indians " . That makes it sound like everybody . It 's " rickshaw drivers , taxi drivers , and some street vendors in India . " I never found pushiness from regular people other than when queueing up to buy tickets at the train station . Just from people in certain professions , and mostly in touristy areas . So it 's not really based on race or nationality , but on profession and opportunity . Yes . It 's definitely worse for foreigners / westerners / " white " people , but ... You can actually chat to these people . I try to keep a good sense of humour and ask them if they hassle Indians as much and they tell me no because the Indians do n't like to pay them much money . They really like it when you treat them like real people rather than just annoyances . It might not make them leave you alone but it leaves you both happier being friendly with them than being adversarial . How to avoid a lot of pushy drivers and vendors . Keep away from the busiest tourist zones when you can be somewhere else . Sometimes you ca n't avoid it , like exiting a train station , or arriving or departing from a tourist site . But other times , such as getting things done in a city like Mumbai ( finding a restaurant , buying supplies , getting the feel of a place ) all you have to do is take some road other than the main tourist road . In Mumbai the next street over from the main tourist street I found everybody so nice , nobody pushy at all . The pushy types follow the biggest chances of money . Even if you 're in a busy touristy place and you want something , avoid the loud drivers and vendors . They are good at getting people 's ' attention and then getting their money . But there are also plenty of meek people in India who ca n't bring themselves to act like this . They might have the next fruit stand over from the loud pushy guy . They might be waiting patiently in their rickshaw elsewhere in the train station grounds rather than crowding around the exit doors . Go to those quiet people instead . The noisy ones see that they 've lost you as a potential customer and look for somebody else to annoy . When regular people are pushy . As I mentioned the one place I found non drivers non vendors to be pushy is when queueing to buy train tickets at stations . Toward the end of my month in India I finally learned the trick for this . Be nice and happy and smiley and friendly and say " namaste " to people . It was amazing . People suddenly saw me as somebody like them rather than as an ignorant outsider tourist . They filled out my forms for me , they pushed other Indians out of the way to get my form to the ticket seller behind the window ! India has a different flow , you have to learn how to go with it . Just because of its unique properties , like the huge population , the huge gap between rich and poor , the poverty of the poor , the crowding , etc , it 's not like most places you might travel . For this reason the ways you normally go about things can cause some friction that will make you grumpy and tired . Getting grumpy and tired is n't nice . The best thing to do is to take the opportunity to learn about people and learn about yourself by thinking of new ways to do things that are different to how you would normally behave elsewhere , but work smoother in India and leave you less grumpy and tired . It 's not easy , especially when you first arrive , especially if it 's hot and humid . But when you finally " get it " , it 's really rewarding and you will fall in love with India !
I live in Singapore , and have taken ferries to Batam and Bintan ( another nearby island ) . Let me first clear up the confusion you have acquired by reading that page on Travelfish.org . They mention that the ferry to Indonesia takes " a couple of days " and " is no cheaper than flying . " They are not referring to the ferry to Batam , but rather to the overall journey from Singapore to Java , which as outlined in the article takes three legs , Batam being the first , easiest , and least significant . With that out of the way : these ferries are extremely safe . The terminal and vessels bear some resemblance to a small airport , and none to the sometimes-chaotic " bumboat " ferries that make short trips elsewhere in the region . The ships are proper ships , with proper seating , very seaworthy in appearance , and completely sealed against the weather ( which is often calm anyway ) . The ferry trip is not very long and the crew are professional . Singaporeans in general are not people who tolerate unsafe conditions ( and there are plenty of them taking these ferries , due to work and also the many golf courses in Batam and Bintan ) . Enjoy the trip . If it were n't for the interesting scenes of cargo ships everywhere , you 'd probably find it boring !
end question
start question
Is it possible to tour the facility where Kahlúa is made ?
An e-mail to Kahlúa asking about tours was answered with : Thanks for your email and your interest in Kahlúa . Unfortunately we do n't currently offer a tour of the Kahlúa facilities . If you have any further questions , please do n't hesitate to ask . Best regards Martin
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
In terms of getting a new passport , <URL> . You can renew or replace your passport at any time . It costs # 72.50 by post or # 81.25 through the Post Office 's Passport Check &amp; Send service . Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one - up to a maximum of 9 months .
I had this problem in Batumi some years ago , except I think we were looking for somewhere around 7am-8am ( I do n't remember why , I think we needed to take an early mashrutka somewhere ) . Batumi is definitely not a " mornings " sort of town . If you want a coffee at midnight though , you 're spoiled for choice ! After lots of walking around , we found somewhere that was ( if I remember right ) opening at 8am but took pity on us and let us in early . I remember it being on the corner of a square / park one block from the beach and beach-facing parks . After some browsing on Google Maps , I think I 've found the place , <URL> . I do n't recognise the name but it looks similar to what I remember and the location looks right : <URL> There 's also apparently an 8AM-opening ice cream place further from the beach , off an even smaller square , <URL> - I 'm pretty sure this is n't the one I 'm thinking of , as I 'd probably remember if I 'd had ice cream for breakfast and it 's several blocks from the beach , but it might be another option . While browsing I also found a <URL> , that 's within 10 minutes walk from both the other options , so this is probably the best area to explore . Whether these places really do open that early , I ca n't say for sure ... But I believe it is possible . Good luck !
According to <URL> , yes : Despite the rigid separation between men and women on the ski lifts , and often on the courses themselves , visitors revealed that on the mountain slopes , in the hotels and inns , one could drink alcohol , hear female singles and mingle freely until all hours of the night . " Just like many other things in Iran , everyone simply turned a blind eye , " Dome explained . As a result , the resorts are an ideal love nest for many Iranian couples .
An e-mail to Kahlúa asking about tours was answered with : Thanks for your email and your interest in Kahlúa . Unfortunately we do n't currently offer a tour of the Kahlúa facilities . If you have any further questions , please do n't hesitate to ask . Best regards Martin
In principle it is possible . However , one has to foresee one or two extra steps before starting to plan the trip per se . Your friend should first talk to his doctor . He is the person to ask . In principle dialysis patients can travel , but not without receiving green light from their doctors . The local hospitals can assist patients to make the necessary arrangements for the dialysis abroad . Dialysis patients probably ca n't go everywhere in the world . They have to go to a place where they can receive the appropriate treatment . Dietary requirements are also likely to restrict the choice . The most obvious and easy option for your friend would be to travel within Switzerland . Distances are short , the country has a lot to offer , arrangements can easily be take and reimbursement is not an issue . Travel in Europe should not be a big issue either . Check with your health insurance what the exact modalities and possibilities are .
Some better hostels actually do have curtains around their bunk bed , both top and bottom , but they are not many of there . Same for couchettes , some night trains have curtains but again that 's not the norm . I doubt that there is anything purpose built on the market . I think it would also be pain to carry such a thing with you all the time . I sometimes used towels or blankets borrowed from the hostel and just stuck the top end under the mattress of the top bunk . Of course this is much easier if you have the bottom bunk . I also used my mosquito net sometimes , it gives a little bit of privacy .
The official answer appears to be NO . I e-mailed the Brazilian Consulate in Houston , and this was their ( ambiguous ) response : Dear Sir/Madam , Tourist visa applications require the presentation of the itinerary . Please contact this office once you have certain plans . You do n't have to present a purchased plane ticket . A round trip reservation under your name will suffice . It seems clear to me this was a copy-and-paste answer , and was n't intended to address my actual question of whether an entry reservation/booking was actually necessary . But I suppose it 's probably safest to have my full itenerary planned before I apply .
Turns out , it is now possible , thanks to a post I found on <URL> . A sample itinerary , that they provide , beginning in London : London to Barcelona on Vueling Barcelona to Casablanca on Vueling Casablanca to Istanbul on Air Arabia Maroc Istanbul to Dubai on Flydubai Dubai to Kathmandu on Flydubai Kathmandu to Kuala Lumpur on Air Asia X Kuala Lumpur to Melbourne on Air Asia X Melbourne to Honolulu on Jetstar Honolulu to Vancouver on Westjet Vancouver to Cancun on Westjet Cancun to Mexico City on Interjet Mexico City to Bogota on Interjet Bogota to Fort Lauderdale on Spirit Airways Fort Lauderdale to Oslo on Norwegian Air Shuttle Oslo to London on Norwegian Air Shuttle Of course there are complications in doing so , as RTW tickets tend to imply a long trip , and LCCs often re-do their routes and cancel/change itineraries .
This depends on two factors : The ticket type . The website where you made the booking . Regarding ticket type , is it a flexible ticket type ? Is it refundable ? Most likely this will be shown in the ticket details . If it is flexible then you need to make sure that the website were you made the reservation has the ability to change the reservation . Most airlines ' websites have this ability . You can simply login and open your booking and change it . Things are not that easy with other online travel agencies and this varies from one website to another and some require you to call a number to do that .
It is currently impossible to cross the border at all . Recent info from <URL> ( which I have praised in <URL> ) as <URL> Since the April 2015 Nepal Earthquake , the Tibet Nepal border has been closed to foreign travelers . [ ... ] At this time , it is impossible to say when this border will reopen . [ ... ] For now , it remains impossible to say when exactly the border will reopen . And this is still all that can be said . You may have gotten hopeful by <URL> linked in <URL> above - however that precedes a massive rockslide just past the Chinese border buildings following heavy rains in July 2016 at Kyirong . You should give a good look to <URL> and especially the sections " When will the Tibet-Nepal Border Reopen ? " and " What Areas Are Closed ? " The author of the website/blog promises to update that article once there are changes and post <URL> as well . The old border in Zhangmu seems to be a ghost town by now and apparently there are no plans to re-open the border . While residents claim the street condition on the Nepal side is as before the earthquake , there is still the occasional ( fatal ) boulder that comes down , as reported in <URL> .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
From Kate 's first link : International marriage information : Couples from outside the United States can be married in Las Vegas . Most countries will want a certified copy of your marriage certificate and an Apostille from the Nevada Secretary of State . The marriage certificate costs $ 10 and the Apostille costs $ 20 . The Nevada Secretary of State can send the Apostille and certified marriage certificate copy directly to your government for you . Note that this is in addition to the $ 60 for the marriage license and whatever you pay to whoever actually marries you . In the US system the government usually does n't actually perform the marriage , you go to the official of your choice . Many of the major casinos here have wedding chapels . You can go to a justice of the peace ( low level judge ) to get married but I do n't think you 're going to come halfway around the world for a totally no-frills wedding . Note that you do pay the justice of the peace if you go that route .
Hippietrail suggested making this a full answer , so here you go : For dengue , the answer is emphatically no . There are four strains of dengue fever , and while getting one of them confers life-long immunity to that strain , each successive infection with dengue of a different strain carries with it a considerably higher risk of either dengue haemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome . You really , really do n't want either one . This , incidentally , is why you wo n't be seeing a vaccine for dengue fever for quite some time - researchers are justifiably concerned that unless they can confer 100 % immunity for all four strains , the vaccine will actually increase the risk for severe disease . For malaria , its something of a harder question based on a number of different factors , but its not something I would ever count on over malaria prophylaxis , even if you were staying very long term .
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
Updates now state that the MLNA has given up on the Azawadian independence : <URL> <URL> After renewed fighting has pushed much of the MLNA into other battles , as well as the African Union refusing to accept it , it would appear that it 's a lost cause , and is viewed on Wikipedia as a ' former ' rogue state . This negates much of the political travel problems , however the problems of entering a war-torn zone still pose much trouble and danger .
I 'm in Tbilisi for the past few days , so could check it here . I asked around in a few currency exchange places - and none of them accept foreign coins , lira or otherwise . One of the places suggested that TBC bank branches may be able to exchange coins , however I did n't manage to get to a bank . My advice would be to take the lira coins with you and head straight for a bank branch . While the exchange rate is n't as favourable as in independent exchange centres , at least you may stand a better chance .
First of all , here <URL> that lets you search camp sites across Japan . Regarding the two places you mentioned , a quick search resulted in this one : There is a <URL> that lets you stay in a group hut or rent a tent . Here is their <URL> . There seems to be only one camp ground in Yagen Valley , and it does not offer rentals . I also tried to find rental tents ( テントのレンタル ) in Mutsu city but could not find any .
end question
start question
What is valid ID for domestic flights in India ?
Any government issued ID should be fine , but PAN or passport is the most widely used . You will need to display the ID at airport security as well as the airline check in counter .
I am not sure whether it is the cheapest , but <URL> currently has <URL> from many European cities to Delhi , Kolkata , Bangalore , Mumbai or Chennai for 550-600 Euros return . You have to change in Dubai . You can fly from Madrid to Delhi on February 24th for 464 Euros .
There are two entirely separate things here : How much you are allowed to bring on the airplane ( which is up to the airline ) , and How much you can bring into India ( which is up to Customs ) . The airline part is fairly straightforward : thanks to the magic of the <URL> , for all international flights starting or ending from the US , you are allowed to bring 2 pieces of checked-in luggage of up to 23 kg each per person , total 46 kg , plus 1 item of carry-on luggage of up 7 kg ( usually ) per person , plus a " personal item " ( handbag , laptop , etc ) . So that 's a grand total of 53 kg per person . The airline does not care what you pack , as long as it is not hazardous . Also , unless you buy extra insurance , per the <URL> they will only pay you an absolute maximum of 1131 SDR ( around US$ 1600 at time of writing ) if they lose or destroy your bags by accident . Then there is the complicated part , which is Indian Customs . Customs &amp; Central Excise publish a " <URL> " guide for travellers , which is 20 pages long ( ! ) , but here are some of the main points for a returning resident who has been away from India for more than three days : Unlimited amount of " used personal effects required for satisfying the necessities of life " ( basically clothing , toiletries etc , but not eg . electronics ) Up to Rs . 35,000 duty-free per person Additional limits for tobacco , alcohol , gold , silver One laptop in addition is allowed Up to US$ 5000 ( or equivalent ) in cash All limits are per person and can not be pooled ( eg . two people ca n't bring back a Rs . 70,000 item for free ) . If you 're a " professional " returning to India after at least three months working abroad , you get extra allowances for household goods and professional equipment ; there 's also an entirely different set of rules for visiting tourists . All that said , Customs are a <URL> and there are quite a few greedy sadists who appear to enjoy using real or imagined infractions of the rules to extract bribes or liberate people from their belongings . As ever , it 's the poor manual labourers returning from years of toil in the Gulf who seem to get the brunt of this though , and they 'll back off if you 're confident and make it clear you know the rules ( a copy of the official guide above wo n't hurt ! ) .
I 've received an official reply from the <URL> : Q : @KLM what is the size limit of the accessory bag on long-distance flights ? Can I take a light-weight 35L backpack as an accessory bag ? A : An accessory is a small handbag or laptop sleeve for instance . A backpack unfortunately is n't . Q : @KLM is there a precise definition of what the maximum accessory bag dimensions are ? A : There is not . As said before the accessory can be a briefcase , laptop or camera sleeve . So the answer is : as long as it looks like a briefcase or laptop sleeve , it 's okay . There is no precise guideline or definition , unlike Ryanair 's or Wizzair 's policies . And no , you can not take a 35L backpack as an ' accessory bag ' .
I believe if I book online and travelling to another Schengen country , I would not need to show ID and only the boarding ticket ? That depends on the airline 's policy ( and to some degree , the gate agent 's knowledge of that policy ) . The EU no longer requires that airlines check for their passengers ' identification so long as they do not check in luggage . Many airlines ( SAS , Norwegian ) do not care and do not check in line with regulation . Ryanair , however , systematically checks . I regularly fly between Sweden where I live , the Netherlands , Germany , Spain , and Italy and I never have to show my ID . But if the airline does ask ... However , as a whole , being in a different country without an ID is not recommended and as Alexander points out , some countries such as Spain and France do require you carry some form of identification at all times e.g. national id card or driver 's license
It is no hassle at all to collect miles , which you can then redeem ( eventually ) for almost-free flights . If you will not be flying enough to earn status , you probably do n't care what airline you collect into : Cathay or any of their partners will be a fine destination for your miles . The point of an alliance is that you can redeem CP miles for AA flights , or BA miles for CP flights , etc. ( If you want to get a credit card that is piped into the FF program to collect non status miles , then there is some benefit to choosing a program based in the country where you live . In addition there are sometimes local promotions that are much easier to play along with if they happen in the country where you live . ) The tricky part is if you think you might achieve status , and choosing the right program to have status in . Most programs offer you some or all of : special short lines for checkin access to a lounge access to premium economy seats on the plane larger luggage allowance priority boarding occasional free upgrades All but the last will be offered to you by every partner in the airline 's alliance , so unless you think upgrades are super likely or the most important part of your decision , the overarching consideration is likely to be what number of miles you need for status . Cathay Pacific is in <URL> . The lowest status level on CP that gets you into lounges is <URL> . That level needs <URL> ( essentially miles flown - there is a multiplier used when you buy expensive fares which probably does n't apply to you ) each year . So , if you were going to fly about double what you have planned , or if trips within Europe on BA or within North America on AA might add up to 50K miles , you should peruse that table very carefully to try to find a program where you will hit the correct Elite level to get you the " good stuff " . But if even the lowest qualification levels are out of reach , then check the redemption tables - I find a 10-20 % variation between airlines in Star Alliance and I 'm sure it 's the same in OW - and choose based on that . Look into buying a lounge pass also .
If you are flying with Jet Airways , Air Vistara or Air India only you will land on international airport in Mumbai . For rest you have to take the Bus internally .
Use of a foreign license is permitted in any state as long as the license can be read by the police officers . e.g. your name and licence number etc do not include any characters outside the ASCII character set . As far as length of use is concerned it varies from state to state but usually 30 days is permitted with no issues . Other than that you can obtain an International Driving Permit , which will solve your problem . You can check this related question for additional information : <URL>
Yes , there is a premium service provided by VFS called " Premium Service Lounge " . I have got an appointment on same date by this facility . It is really great service by VFS and everything will be done very easily . The Premium Lounge Service includes : Separate lounge with personalized service by dedicated staff Refreshments Faster submission of applications at the visa application center Courier return of passport SMS alert on the status of your application Photocopying and photo booth service for your documents Important note : Your visa application will be processed and decided by the French Consulate in Bangalore , Use of the Premium Service Lounge does not affect the processing time of your application .
You have answered your own question by providing the official reason Ryan Air do this : to ensure compliance with immigration authorities When Ryan Air first introduced this policy in 2009 , <URL> : A Ryanair spokesman said it had introduced the rule early this summer to allow non-EU and - EEA passengers to use web check-in . Previously , the airline did not allow non-EU and - EEA passengers to check in online ; instead , it offered a refund of the extra cost of checking in at the airport . Aer Lingus says it does not have such a requirement . " For those passengers who check in online , passports are checked either at the bag-tag desk or bag-drop machine or at the boarding gate , " a spokeswoman said . The Ryanair spokesman said : " Other airlines do n't offer passengers the convenience of 100 per cent web check-in , so they do n't need to do this yet . They check visas at their long-queue check-in desks , which Ryanair passengers now avoid . " Most of the time <URL> . All other airlines do some form of basic visa checks in the background . Ryan Air either have not updated to procedures , or are choosing to do it this way . Another thing to note is that Ryan Air only checks that your Passport is OK to travel , or that you have a valid visa . They do n't check for example whether you are overstaying your visa ( e.g. <URL> ) . But what about Domestic flights or flights between Schengen countries ? This is where their official reasoning breaks down . They have a blanket policy for all Non-EU Nationals regardless of the flight they are taking . Obviously there is no immigration requirements for domestic flight , nor is there one between two schengen countries . They might say it is easier to have one policy for all their flights , but its hard to believe this when they are the only ones to do this in the first place . Why do n't they just perform the check at the boarding gate ? Actually I have witnessed some positive experiences with other passengers forgetting their visa check , and the staff being nice enough to check it and stamp it at the boarding gate . However this has been far less than the experiences of seeing people rejected . inserted : From Easy Jet ( another budget airline ) Will my travel documents be checked at the airport ? You need to provide photographic ID at check-in on all flights , including domestic services . On domestic flights ( excluding Italy ) an ID check at the boarding gate is NOT required for passengers travelling with cabin baggage only . It is only mandatory that ID checks are conducted for passengers travelling with hold luggage . If you check-in online you will still need to provide your photographic ID when you go through security and again when you board the plane . What are the travel documents that I need ? You need to provide photographic ID at check-in on all flights , including domestic services but the types required vary . For clarification please see the table below : <URL> not every country issues a national identity card . Please note : a driving licence does not represent a valid photographic ID , with the exception of UK domestic flights . Money Making Scheme ? Many people actually ( as @Andrew Lazarus has already mentioned ) believe this is another one of their money making schemes . Many passengers are denied boarding due to this clause and by that time they do not have enough time to go back to the check-in counter and come back through security to board the flight . Thus requiring them to purchase another ticket . I would tend to agree with this idea , they also are very strict with the check-in bag sizes and their <URL> Update : I asked them on Twitter about Domestic and Schengen flights : <URL> I was unable to get them to give me a reason for why they do the visa check for Schengen flights
There is no nationally , or even locally mandated standard . I 've certainly seen friends have no issues using both Passports and Drivers Licenses from their home country . I 've also seen people have issues - especially when their ID is written in a non-latin script , or when they have a DOB which can be misread by using a non-American date ordering scheme , ( i.e. someone born on August the 10th , 1992 , would have their BOD listed as 8/10/92 here in the states , and would be of legal drinking age . If their ID instead reads 10/8/92 a not particularly sharp waiter may give you a hard time - admittedly , an extreme edge case . ) Realistically , there 's no single answer that can be provided here however , because there is no standard for what 's accepted . At the end of the day , the acceptability of your proof of age is up to the merchant with whom you do business to evaluate . You 'll have an easier time in more cosmopolitan cities like New York , but realistically , you ca n't do much better than your Passport , and I 've almost never seen an issue with one .
None , if you 're looking only at major airlines . <URL> is a map showing non-stop Russian destinations reachable from Fairbanks , Alaska . Here 's <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . However <URL> operates for 8 weeks in the summer and for the fifth season this year , you can go from Anchorage to Petropavlovsk . You can also <URL> a flight with Bering Air , though it requires a 3 week <URL> and 2 weeks to process the request . There 's also <URL> which has flights from Anchorage to Petropavlovsk in the summer .
No , <URL> . However , <URL> if you 're carrying a lot of currency or other valuables in order to prevent drawing attention to items that could be stolen . This is probably good advice since you are separated from your luggage for a bit at the checkpoint , especially if you get stuck waiting in a slower-than-normal line for the scanner after placing your baggage on the conveyor . I 've heard that the United States government can and is seizing any amount of cash over a certain dollar amount at airports . That is definitely not true . They may be curious why you 're carrying $ 30k in cash and may ask you about it , but they will not ( and , legally , can not ) seize it unless they have probable cause to believe that you have committed or are about to commit a crime and that said cash is reasonably likely to be evidence of said crime . If they do have probable cause to suspect a crime , then they can refer the matter to law enforcement and keep you around until law enforcement gets there to question you . From the TSA Management Directive copied into page 19 of <URL> : When currency appears to be indicative of criminal activity , TSA may report the matter to the appropriate authorities . For all flights , factors indicating that cash is related to criminal activity include the quantity , packaging , circumstances of discovery , or method by which the cash is carried , including concealment ... TSA may also note any factors related to criminal activity for purposes of notifying CBP [ for international passengers ] and/or law enforcement , as well as request that the individual remain accessible pursuant to such notification . Of course the best advice is probably to simply not carry large amounts of currency with you when you fly in the first place . If you carry it on , it could be stolen at the checkpoint either by a TSA agent or by another passenger . TSA does n't keep track of whose bag is whose when they go through the conveyor . If someone grabs your bag or takes something out of it before you clear the scanner , they are n't going to know that the bag does n't belong to that person until it 's too late . For checked luggage , you are separated from it from the time you check in until you get to the baggage carousel at your destination . Airline agents , TSA agents , baggage handlers , ground crew , etc. at each airport you transit have access to your bags when you ca n't see them , so it would be nearly impossible for you to catch the culprit if someone decided to help themselves to some cash . If you do have to fly with large amounts of cash , <URL> has useful advice .
For all Rent a cab services , If entering from Karnataka to TamilNadu via Hosur , there is RTO check post where temporary permits are provided for one week , 4 +1 = 150 + handling charges ~ 100
10:27 am to 11:54 am is insanely tight . The domestic to international MCT at JFK is 1:15 so I think the booking is possible but JFK is notorious for issuing impossible MCTs ( at one point United was selling a ticket with a transfer time of 30 minutes to a different terminal ! ) . So you are a full 12 minutes above the official unrealistic MCT . Nope . You land at LGA at 8:10 AM , let 's say you clear that airport in 40 minutes , that 's 8:50 AM , the drive over should not be more than 40 minutes but even if it 's 60 you have two hours to go through JFK check-in and security . This is way more realistic .
Starting in October 2014 , <URL> . India currently offers visa-on-arrival to tourists from only 11 countries , including Finland , Singapore and Japan . A quote from their Planning Minister on the matter : " We have decided to extend the visa-on-arrival facility to tourists from 180 nations . It will take five to six months for the respective departments to put the required infrastructure in place . We hope to implement this from the next tourist session beginning October , " The electronic visa-on-arrival will be available at 26 major airports in India and would be valid for 30 days from the date of the tourist 's arrival in India . Note , however , that this does not include all countries - for example , nationals from Pakistan , Sudan , Afghanistan , Iran , Iraq , Nigeria , Sri Lanka and Somalia still can not get visas on arrival .
The <URL> has its own home page where it lists the <URL> ( dead link ) in a downloadable Excel spreadsheet . ( Different routes are listed in different " sheets " within the spreadsheet so switch using the tabs at the bottom . ) There 's <URL> ( you need to switch to the " Fare Stage " tab ) . Perhaps not the most intuitive way but at least you have the information in some form . Usually , people at bus stops will be happy to help you out with information on what bus route to take ( if they speak English , that is ) . Another pertinent point is that given Delhi 's traffic , it 's highly unlikely that the bus schedule will be helpful . <URL> , do n't expect the buses to turn up or reach their destination on time .
From the US Embassy in Australia : <URL> An International Driving Permit serves as proof of validation of your Australian state license and as another form of photo identification . However , you must also carry your Australian state license . Some rental car agencies require an international driver 's license as part of the agreement . So legally , you do n't need an international permit , but bureaucratically , potentially you may , depending on the company . I got my international one in NZ , it does n't cost much , so I 'd just go ahead and get it - at least you 'll have peace of mind .
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
When can flights be booked ? Tickets go one sale twice a year on a fixed day common to all airlines . For example , tickets for flights from March 27 through October 29 , 2016 all went on sale at 9:30 am on January 27 . The day when tickets go on sale is announced a couple weeks beforehand . The old system of selling tickets only from two months before departure is however still used on a few minor routes . Also , flights which are not yet on sale on the domestic market can usually be booked as part of an international ticket . For tourists : flat 10,800 yen per flight with ANA and JAL The two major carriers All Nippon Airways ( ANA ) and Japan Airlines ( JAL ) have a simple fare for foreign visitors : 10,800 yen per flight ( plus a couple hundred yen of taxes ) , on all flights . They differ on some details , however , which are described below . Note that , on some short or very competitive routes , the regular advance booking fare available to everybody ( described below ) may be cheaper than that . Both fares require a round-trip or open-jaw international ticket from a foreign country to Japan , with no restriction on the airline ( contrary to some earlier offers which required flying into Japan on an airline in the same alliance ) . ANA 's fare is called " Experience Japan " . It can only be booked on the local ANA website for a country other than Japan ( usually , but not necessarily , one 's country of residence ) , and must be booked at least three days in advance . The checked baggage allowance is one piece of up to 20kg , as with regular domestic ANA fares . Changes and refunds are not permitted . There is no limit on the number of flights which can be booked . Flights of five regional airlines which codeshare with ANA ( Air Do , Ibex , Starflyer , Solaseed Air , and Oriental Air Bridge ) are also eligible . JAL 's fare is called " Japan Explorer " , it has <URL> . The conditions are mostly the same as with ANA 's , except that the checked baggage allowance is two pieces of up to 23kg each , as on JAL 's international flights . On the other hand , only up to five domestic flights can be booked per international ticket . In addition to flights of JAL itself , only flights of its subsidiaries J-Air and Japan Transocean Air are eligible , and not flights of other JAL group airlines such as Japan Air Commuter . JAL has an <URL> for flights to the Tohoku region : 5,400 yen per flight . That one , however , requires flying to Japan on a Oneworld airline , and must be booked by phone to a JAL reservation center . A promotional JAL fare similar to the Tohoku one was recently introduced for <URL> from Tokyo or Osaka , to assist with the revitalisation efforts of the region after the earthquakes of April 2016 . It is currently available for flights until October 29 , 2016 , but may ( or may not ) be extended when tickets for flights from October 30 willl go on sale . For everybody : advance booking discounts and budget carriers Advance booking discounts Both <URL> and <URL> offer advance booking discounts , which must be booked on the airline 's Japanese website ( which is also available in English ) . The best fares are available by booking up to 75 days before departure , the " second-best " up to 55 days , and likewise up to 45 , 28 , and 21 days . Even booking just a couple days in advance will give some discount over the full fare , which is only applied for last-minute purchases , or when all discounted seats have sold out . Flights of the five regional airlines mentioned above can also be booked through ANA . Flights of all JAL group airlines as well as of Fuji Dream Airlines and Amakusa Airlines can be booked through JAL . Budget carriers There are five carriers which can be considered " budget " : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( website in Japanese only for flights within Japan ) . They mostly serve Japan 's major peripheral cities , such as Sapporo , Fukuoka or Naha , from Tokyo and/or Osaka . They also serve some more minor cities , especially on the islands of Kyushu and Shikoku . Skymark is a bit of a " premium budget " , in particular all its tickets include a 20kg checked baggage allowance , and also it is the only one of the five which flies domestically from Tokyo 's more centrally located Haneda airport . ( The other four use Narita , with Peach also using Haneda for international flights only . ) As a general rule of thumb , the sticker price for a flight in a low-demand period ( middle of the week , not during holidays ) is normally about 8,000 yen with Skymark and 5,000 with the others . However , taxes and payment fees can add up to 1,000 yen , and checked baggage fees can exceed 2,000 yen on long routes or with heavy baggage . During high-demand periods , they usually come close to ANA 's or JAL 's , since then mostly everything can sell out quickly . All five run frequent sales campaigns ( once or twice monthly ) , during which fares can sink to about 2,000 yen , with the best discounts being again for flights in low-demand periods . Peach is the only one which announces them on its English website
end question
start question
Why do hostels require you to ' rent ' bedding ?
Some Stats I ran some stats for you ( from our data on Hostelz.com , a travel website that I represent ) and currently 97 % of hostels provide free bedsheets , and the remaining 3 % charge a fee . Towels are a different matter . Currently 50.5 % of hostels include free towels , 46.9 % charge a fee , and 2.6 % do n't offer towels at all . The History Over the long term , the trend is actually moving in the opposite direction of what you may think it is . In the past hostels traditionally did n't provide bedsheets or towels at all . When staying in hostels , you were expected to bring your own " sleepsheet " ( usually made from two bedsheets sewn together ) . As recently as the early 2000s , guidebooks recommended always having your sleepsheet when staying in hostels because most hostels charged extra if you did n't bring your own sheets , and some did n't offer sheets at all . Over the past couple decades , hostels have been more and more offering amenities similar to what you would expect from hotels ( and they 've been raising their rates as well ) . Some may still charge for sheets because they traditionally have always done that , but some hostels may be just doing it as a way to profit from added fees ( the Ryanair business model ) . How to Find Out To answer your question about how to find out ahead of time which hostels charge for sheets or towels , most of the hostels ' own websites do n't include that info from what I 've seen . If you 're looking on Hostelz.com , we list that information in the column on the left side of each listing , usually including the specific price they charge if the hostel provided that information . Other websites may list information as well ( Hostelworld for example will usually say " sheets included " if they 're free , so if you do n't see that , there may be a fee ) . Consider Bringing Your Own Personally I still always bring a sleepsheet ( or " travelsheet " ) with me anyway . I just like sleeping in my own familiar sheets . You could bring a simple bedsheet with you , or if you do n't mind spending some money , you can get a really nice <URL> . Silk is ideal because it 's super lightweight , compacts to a very small size , durable , breathable , and super comfortable .
The one year validity was originally set in the <URL> and agreed upon . Anyway , in the 1968 convention of the same topic it was changed to no more than 3 years validity after the date of issue or until the date of expiry of the domestic driver 's license , whichever is earlier , but it seems that this is not followed . From <URL> According to the 1949 Convention on Road Traffic , an IDP remains valid for one year from the date of issue . However , according to the Vienna Convention , an IDP remains valid for no more than three years from the date of issue , or until the expiration date of national driving permit , whichever is earlier . An IDP is not valid for driving in the country where it was issued .
I have n't been able to find anything on the South Africa site , but the South African embassy in Australia has <URL> : Transit Visa Requirements Visa restricted passport holders who want to transit South Africa to any one of South Africa 's neighbouring countries , MUST apply for a transit visa . The neighbouring countries are Botswana , Lesotho , Mozambique , Namibia , Swaziland and Zimbabwe . Passport holders who want to transit a South African port of entry enroute to any other country , may do so without the need to apply for a transit visa . I found the same statement on a South African Airlines website .
Yes , particularly in your circumstance where the airline can see it occurred because of a delayed inbound flight . In that condition the delay has encroached into the " minimum connect time " between LGA and EWR ( which is three hours ) . If you were involved in a delay between LGA and EWR I would also expect to be re-accommodated . However this is a bit more difficult to assert and prove . ( All of this relies on these flights being on a single ticket -- that is , bought at the same time from one seller . ) By the way , you can write " LGA-EWR " as " LGA / / EWR " to indicate that you are not flying between LGA and EWR but using alternative transportation .
The contents of the main page in a passport is dictated by standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) , specifically the Machine Readable Travel Documents standard ( <URL> ) . This document states that all passport photos should meet the following requirements : Pose 1.1 . The photograph should be less than six months old . 1.2 . It should show a close up of the head and shoulders . 1.3 . The photograph should be taken so that an imaginary horizontal line between the centres of the eyes is parallel to the top edge of the picture . 1.4 . The face should be in sharp focus and clear with no blemishes such as ink marks , pen , pin , paper clip , staples , folds , dents , or creases . 1.5 . The photograph should show the subject facing square on and looking directly at the camera with a neutral expression and the mouth closed . 1.6 . The chin to crown ( crown is the position of the top of the head if there were no hair ) shall be 70 -80 % of the vertical height of the picture . 1.7 . The eyes must be open and there must be no hair obscuring them . 1.8 . If the subject wears glasses , the photograph must show the eyes clearly with no lights reflected in the glasses . The glasses shall not have tinted lenses . Avoid heavy frames if possible and ensure that the frames do not cover any part of the eyes . Sunglasses can not be worn or appear on the person 's head . 1.9 . Coverings , hair , headdress , hats , scarfs , head bands , bandanas or facial ornamentation which obscure the face , are not permitted ( except for religious or medical reasons . In all cases , the person 's full facial features from bottom of chin to top of forehead and both edges of the face must be clearly visible ) . 1.10 . The photograph must have a plain light coloured background . 1.11 . There must be no other people , chair back , or objects in the photograph . Lighting , Exposure , and Colour Balance 2.1 . The lighting must be uniform with no shadows or reflections on the face , eye-glasses or in the background . 2.2 . The subject 's eyes must not show red eye . 2.3 . The photograph must have appropriate brightness and contrast . 2.4 . Where the picture is in colour , the lighting , and photographic process must be colour balanced to render skin tones faithfully . Submission of Portrait to the Issuing Authority Where the portrait is supplied to the Issuing Authority in the form of a print , the photograph , whether produced using conventional photographic or digital techniques , should be on good or photo-quality paper . Compliance with International Standards 4.1 . The photograph shall comply with the appropriate definitions set out in ISO/IEC 1974 -- 5 . The last of the points above is probably the most important as far as " why " - <URL> defines standards for Biometric data interchange formats , with part 5 specifically being Face image data . According to the ISO/IEC 19794 documents : To enable many applications on variety of devices , including devices that have the limited resources required for data storage , and to improve face recognition accuracy , this part of ISO/IEC 19794 specifies not only a data format , but also scene constraints ( lighting , pose , expression , etc. ) , photographic properties ( positioning , camera focus , etc. ) , digital image attributes ( image resolution , image size , etc. ) .
It really depends on the shop location and airport layout . If the duty-free shop is only in the international departures zone then they probably do n't set up a tax-in/tax-out process in their cash register . Therefore they have no process to sell with tax . If the shop is in a mixed departures zone or public space then they have a gate delivery process and sometimes do have a tax-in option at the register . Copenhagen airport does - I went to buy some small things there , they asked for passport and boarding pass , I told them where I was going and they just rang it up with Danish tax .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
<URL> , according to Wikitravel . There is no road or rail system . The easiest way to get around Greenland is by plane , particularly Air Greenland . In the summer , Arctic Umiaq Line passenger ships provide service to destinations between Narsarsuaq and Uummannaq along the west coast . Of course , if you got a skidoo or dog sled , you could make your own way around ;) Wikipedia actually has more information - <URL> The transportation system in Greenland is very unusual in that Greenland has no railways , no inland waterways , and virtually no roads between towns . It goes into further detail about the few roads that do exist : There are 150 km ( 90 mi ) of roads in the whole country ; 60 km ( 40 mi ) of the roads are paved . Two towns are connected by a 4.5 km road , Ivittuut and Kangilinnguit ; the rest are isolated .
It is not a pleasant situation for both of them - the passenger or the large passenger . It is very uncomfortable for the passenger and totally embarrassing for the large guy . In addition to that , it is uncomfortable and embarrassing for the staff . Unfortunately , there is no one single rule that applies here ; each airline has its own policy regarding this . What you should do before the flight takes off If the large person 's body is invading your space and you have noticed this during boarding , make sure to speak to one of the cabin crew members immediately . Make it their problem . You are paying for a seat and it is your right to get a full seat , not a part of one . Remember , the only time you can report this case is on the ground . It is the perfect time for crew or ground staff to find another seat either for you or for the large person , or to find another solution in the case that there are no spare seats . Once the doors are closed and the plane is moving without you talking about it , you have given complicit agreement to this situation and no one can do much about it in most cases . What the staff will do This depends on the airline . Some airlines make large people pay ; some others upgrade large people to business or first class for free as a part of their services ( the airline I work for does this if no two seats are available in economy class ) . You could get lucky and get moved to a higher class and leave your seat for the other passenger . Either way , your problem should be solved before the plane takes off . Things to keep in mind This is an odd and embarrassing situation . Make sure to talk in private with the cabin crew to avoid embarrassing the sized passenger publicly . Depending on the airline , the sized passenger can be deplaned from the airplane or asked to pay for an extra seat . You may also be asked if you would like to wait for another flight ! Anything is possible if no extra seats are available .
It is , in my experience , either mandatory or forbidden , never optional . On a flight from JFK to JNB , we stopped in Dakkar . Some people left the plane because that was their destination . Then security came on , did a quick search of the empty seats , new people got on , insecticide was sprayed , and we left . On a flight LAX-SYD-Melbourne , everybody had to get off and the Melbourne people were told to stay in the gate area to line up and reboard . Also to take all their stuff with them . Keeping track of who left the plane and who did n't would be a nightmare . Even the Dakkar experience seemed suboptimal to me .
A cabin crew member here , and I am from a country where people do not clap after landings and I was very surprised when I experienced this for the first time , so I started asking passengers when this happens on different flights . Basically there are three main reasons : A sign of appreciation : the smoother the flight/landing , the stronger the clapping . You know , clapping is cheaper and more feasible than sending the crew flowers . A sign of happiness for safely landing . The harder the flight was , the stronger the clapping will be . There could be other reasons as well behind " happiness " , I am sure it happened with me when no one expected it to happen , but in general it happens on certain flights with certain communities on a regular basis . A sign of excitement for reaching home . Seen this in flights where most of the passengers are expats arriving home after spending a long time away from home . The three above situations happen more when arriving home , not when going away from home . That also was noticed . I guess in some communities , this clapping thing became a tradition , Egypt for example . While the applause is mainly a sign of excitement , people from there do not need a reason to do so . You 'll see passengers from all classes ( even rich people in first class ) will usually clap especially older ones regardless of the flight even if it was a one hour flight with no service and a hard landing ! There are also other less common reasons behind that . Sometimes crew announcements initiate that , as mentioned in the comment ( the crew announced that this was the last flight before the captain 's retirement ) , another announcement that I personally experienced when the captain announced the result of an important football match ( he got the result from the ATC ) .
Typical " earliest checkin " times are between 12:00 and 16:00 - but if your concern is luggage , it 's not really relevant as pretty much all hostels and hotels offer to safely store your luggage for you before checkin and after checkout . Some Hostels additionally have personal lockers , since dormitories are more or less publically accessible , so you do n't want to leave valuables in them .
In grand summary ( and standing upon the shoulders of all the other contributors ! ) , photography restrictions ( with or without flash ) are frequently enforced at locations for the following reasons and needs ; ( in no particular order ) Security National -- Military installations/Anti-Spying etc. . Local -- High value exhibits on display . Protective Privacy -- Areas may overlook private habitation . Safety -- Areas may overlook protected environments e.g. schools , hospitals Local Taboo Religion -- Areas may be religiously unacceptable for photography . Culture -- Areas may be culturally unacceptable for photography . Health and safety Safety to visitors -- People trying to get pictures might cause trip , escape or other safety hazards Safety to performers/guides -- Staff may be distracted and put at risk of injury Pragmatism Experience -- People trying to get pictures might cause other visitors a reduced experience Traffic flow -- People trying to get pictures might delay visitor travel in heavy transit areas Revenue Impact Onsite - Local memorabilia item sales may be affected by visitor photography . Offsite -- Visitor photography publishing might affect long-term ticket sales . Exhibit Impact Ecological -- Photography might disturb local wildlife Preservation -- Flash photography might damage exhibits or artefacts Local choice The last being a reflection that there may not necessarily be a legal , pragmatic or guessable restriction . It may just be a preference from the venue management , owners or local government policy that photography ( with or without flash ) is not allowed . Whether that decision is legal , moral or pragmatic can be an interesting argument , but in most circumstances , it 's a rather moot point . As a visitor , you are allowed visitation rights in accordance to the venue 's biddings under applicable laws . You have no rights beyond that unless argued in court according to applicable legislation . Under those circumstances , there 's no universal answer to , " Why do some Tourist attractions forbid tourists to take photographs ? " It 's more of a case of asking , " What attractions allow me to take photographs without impact ? "
Those onsen requiring swimsuits are basically those in amusement parks or other trendy non-traditional facilities . Anything else , you can rest assured will not require swimsuits .
Actually some airlines still do that . Air New Zealand hands out sweets/lollies ( to adults and children ) , and I 've seen it on some other airlines too in recent years - but ca n't remember the names off hand . There are SOME technological advancements - the 787 and A380 are meant to be better for jetlag and certainly the <URL> leading to less ear/sinus problems . However , as a commenter suggests , many cutbacks are due to costs - the airlines are looking to save money wherever they can , and if some airlines will even consider <URL> , then cutting sweets and treats is certainly not beneath them . It would also reduce time for cleaning of the aircraft , cutting turnaround times between flights - a major focus in operations for LCCs ( low cost carriers ) like RyanAir , Easyjet , Jetstar and the like .
I always thought it was to avoid breathing too much pollution or avoid catching diseases from other people . In fact it 's the other way around . My Japanese friend always wears one when she has a cold because she does n't want to infect other people !
The Antarctic Peninsula is a part of the sector of Antarctica claimed by Argentina . If you are taking a ship that goes only there ( and not to the Falkland Islands , for example ) , you are technically not leaving Argentina at all . I went to the Antarctic Peninsula from Ushuaia last November . The crew took my passport before I boarded the ship , and returned it just before we came back to Ushuaia . I do n't know what kind of formalities there were before the departure , but at least I did n't get an exit stamp to the passport . When the ship returned to Ushuaia , they just transfered us to our hotels without any formalities .
Whether intuitive or not depends on the person using it . I 'm not really liking them much because every single one of them is too limiting in some way , not having the scale to be really useful outside of very popular destinations . Still , scores of people use the sites listed below , so perhaps you might like one of these as well : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Not really matching what you are asking , but what I find the best resource in this context is <URL> .
ITA has a 60-second time limit on its searches , so if any of its sources takes longer than this to return a result , those results are not included in the end-result . If that happens , and you do the same search again , even immediately , you can get drastically different results if one of the previously-slow sources responds faster . Undoubtedly every aggregate search engine has a time limit , although exactly what the time limit is , and how its implemented , is likely to vary drastically . But this is likely a major cause of an appearance of fluctuating prices .
Yes . HiHostels has not one , but two hostels in Dubai . They 're not terribly imaginatively named , but : <URL> <URL> You do n't need to be an HI member to stay there , but you do get a discount if you are one .
end question
start question
Can I use the lounge after the flight ?
The answer is " Yes " but only if you are arriving from an intercontinental flight . EuroBonus Gold &amp; Diamond members can also access SAS lounges if arriving from a SAS-operated intercontinental flight ( except at Newark due to airport authority regulations ) . <URL> I would presume from the phrasing that access would not be granted on arriving from a shorthaul flight . Since CPH is SAS 's hub , it is likely that the " Lounge Dragons " ( or " Lounge Angels " if we are to be kind ) know the regulations better than most . I suppose it could not hurt to ask if you can enter .
There is a lounge , but the airport website does n't seem to mention it ... It 's a third party lounge , the Reef Lounge . <URL> to it , as apparently do JetStar for their Economy Starter Max and Business Max passengers . You can also get access to the lounge with a <URL> . The Priority Pass website has quite a lot of details on it , but I ca n't work out how to link to the page , so you 'll need to <URL> , pick Australia + Cairns + Reef Lounge to see all about it !
The longest non-stop ( by <URL> source ) flight was Newark to Singapore on Singapore Airlines flight SQ21 which is and 18 hour 50 minute flight of some 15,345 km . However , as of November 2013 , Singapore Airlines has discontinued this route . However for single flight number , allowing stopover , things are hard to research . Not many websites list tables of distances by flight number . So I resorted to thinking of a route and then looking on the airline websites to see if it was one flight number or split over two flight numbers . I suspect the longest route that could be a single flight number and have a stopover would be Northern Europe to Australia . So I searched on several airlines for flights . I found a few contenders ( but no definitive answers ) : NZ1 and NZ38 , both on Air New Zealand fly London to Auckland with a stop in Hong Kong in 26 hours and 40 minutes . A distance of 18,463 km . QF320 on Qantas and BA15 on British Airways fly London to Sydney with a stopover in Singapore . They both take 22 hours and 50 minutes . QF1 on Qantas goes from Sydney to London , again stopping in Singapore and is 23 hours and 25 minutes .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Yes you can , portable electronic devices ( PEDS ) are divided into few categories , some of them are : PEDs allowed all the times : such as some medical devices . They are allowed during all phases of the flight , for example some medical oxygen devices . PEDs allowed during cruise : Most of the electronic devices are in this category , you can use them during the cruise phase of the flight , not allowed during critical phases ( take off , landing , taxiing , . etc ) . This include laptops , MP3 players , tablets . etc. . PEDs not allowed at all : Some devices are not allowed during the flight at all times , such as walkie talkies . These devices could interfere with the operation of the aircraft hence they are strictly prohibited . In the past few years things have changed a bit , for example cell phones used to be prohibited at all times but with the new airplanes they are allowed during cruise in major airlines , you can even use them and make calls . Same thing for WiFi , new airplanes have WiFi connection which will be available in the cruise phase . In general , it is the airline 's responsibility to show what devices are allowed and when during the safety demonstration . Things are different from an airline to another but in general these categories are the same .
The answer is " Yes " but only if you are arriving from an intercontinental flight . EuroBonus Gold &amp; Diamond members can also access SAS lounges if arriving from a SAS-operated intercontinental flight ( except at Newark due to airport authority regulations ) . <URL> I would presume from the phrasing that access would not be granted on arriving from a shorthaul flight . Since CPH is SAS 's hub , it is likely that the " Lounge Dragons " ( or " Lounge Angels " if we are to be kind ) know the regulations better than most . I suppose it could not hurt to ask if you can enter .
Firstly - more for the benefit of anyone else in this situation in the future - Vietnam Airlines should rebook you for free if your flight is scheduled to depart earlier than planned : <URL> The same link also alludes to compensation for delays of over 4 hours ; for the benefit of anyone who speaks Vietnamese , it 's in regulation 14/2015/TT-BGTVT . In the case of a flight from Ho Chi Minh City or Hanoi to Siem Reap , that would be 25 USD as both flights are under 1000km . It 's not clear to me whether this would also apply to an early departure , but regardless it does only apply if you 're told about it less than 24 hours in advance . From personal experience , it 's not uncommon for Vietnamese carriers to cancel flights on their more frequent routes , and to do so relatively close to departure ( but more than 24 hours in advance ) . My educated assumption would be that if they can fit everyone onto three flights say , rather than four , they 'll gladly cancel the fourth .
Presenting the card and running a transaction on the card are different things . I bought some show tickets a while back , changed the card , but kept the old card for ticket pickup . The company just wanted to match the numbers on the transaction to the numbers on the piece of plastic , the transaction was run at the time of purchase . People change / lose / expire cards every day , and no airline is going to wait until departure to take your money . Just keep the old card after you cancel it .
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
There 's no time limit - as long as you 're traveling that day you will be allowed through security and allowed into the lounge . You do n't even need to be flying AA - as long as you can physically get to the lounge and have paid your money then you will be allowed in . The only real restriction is if you are planning to check luggage , in which case you will not be able to check your luggage until ~ 3-4 hours before the departure time of the flight .
No , the Go Card is not valid in Cairns . As you quote yourself , the Go Card is only valid for transport in areas managed by TransLink in South East Queensland , and <URL> these are roughly bounded by the Sunshine and Gold Coasts .
British Airways uses a standard 3.5 mm port in all classes ; you should be fine to bring your own headphones . [ edit ] However , I always include in my travel electronics kit an airline headphone adapter , which allows you to use your headphones ' single 3.5 mm stereo jack with the double 3.5 mm mono ports found on some equipment , including older BA aircraft . In premium cabins , you may notice a smaller second outlet , and that the provided headphones have two-prong jacks . This second port is not an audio output , but a power supply for the noise cancellation system in the provided headphones . You do not need a one-prong to two-prong adapter here , and you should not attempt to plug any third party accessories into this outlet . In fact , I 'm not aware of any major carrier which has proprietary audio jacks in this day and age . You 'll find 3.5 mm outlets in single stereo or split mono varieties pretty much anywhere you can get electronic in-flight audio .
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
No . Restricted items may only be carried in checked luggage . However , Singapore Airlines permits you to check at least 30 kg for free , so I would suggest you simply check your carry-on luggage .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
Airlines ' rules clearly indicate that the crew rest areas are only to be used by the crew members , you usually find placards stating that on the doors to these areas . Anyway that does n't mean it is not possible . These areas are not considered to be high risk areas or so , they contain bunks , emergency equipment and in some cases a seat or two . You can ask the cabin crew nicely and they will let you take a peek . I have let curious passengers do that myself many times . On the other hand , the crew rest areas for cockpit crew are off the limits and no one is allowed there even cabin crew , that 's due to many reasons one of them is they are usually located next to the cockpit itself or in some cases the entrance to it can share the same door with the cockpit . Now , here are some of the aircraft that have these rest areas : 777-200 : they are called LCRC or lower crew rest compartment and contain 6 bunks usually . This is one of the ugliest crew rest areas , this compartment is a removable cargo compartment which can be installed or removed depending on the flight and crew legality . These compartments are tight and not usable on ground , you need to open a hatch on the floor to access it , the air flow will only start after take off , they are also usually hot . I personally hate them and I prefer a passenger seat over them . They are located next to R3 door ( middle of the airplane , right side ) and the access door is visible to passengers , it will be hard for the crew to let you go in . Also , it requires a key to open it . 777-300 : they are called OFAR or ( overhead flight attendant rest area ) and contain 8 bunks usually . They are so beautiful and big in size . Also bunks are big and makes you feel like home . The access door is located in front of L5 door ( aft of the airplane , left side ) . The door needs a combination to be opened and only the crew know it . This will be easy for the crew to let you in , since no passengers will be able to see you when you are going up . 747-400 : are one of the first planes to provide a designated cabin crew rest areas . They are located aft of R5 door ( aft right side of the plane ) . They contain 6-8 bunks usually , sometimes two seats as well . It is large and well ventilated . A380 : it has two rest areas for the cabin crew . One located in the middle and one at the back . It can also have three ( depending on the airline ) . Remember , ask the cabin crew after the last service in the flight , because after the last service usually no more rest times for the cabin crew and the bunks will be empty . Ask nicely and for sure they will let you see it .
TL ; DR : You need to present your M&amp;M account number at the check-in or apply for retroactive credit for a flight online at miles-and-more . com under the menu point " Mileage request " . There is no real harm in registering at all the frequent flier programs where you are able to earn miles on . The airline has your data anyhow already once you take a flight , so there is no privacy issue ( as long as you do not use the card/number otherwise ) , and you do not pay any fees . Many programs also apply to car rentals , hotel bookings etc , so you can earn miles in several places . To get the miles on your card , normally all you need to do is to present your card/number at check-in and you will get the points . Once you have a certain minimum amount of points , you will get the physical card . If you do not have a card yet , or forgot it , you can simply give them the number or apply retroactively on-line . You can also take a photo of your card and store it on your smartphone so there is no issue in case you do not carry them with you .
It would appear not , but there 's nothing stopping us from creating one . People can edit the answer as we find more . Airlines that ban the Knee Defender Air Canada <URL> American Airlines <URL> Continental Airlines <URL> Delta Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Qantas <URL> Southwest Airlines <URL> United Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Virgin Australia <URL> ; <URL> WestJet <URL> Airlines that discourage but do n't ban the Knee Defender British Airways <URL> JetBlue Airways <URL> Airlines that allow the Knee Defender EasyJet <URL> Virgin Atlantic <URL> Airlines with seats that do not recline Allegiant Air <URL> Spirit <URL> Ryanair <URL>
Strikes usually end officially at 10 p.m. , but do n't count on any train after that time . There might be an odd train , but usually there is not . In reality the normal schedule resumes the next morning with a few cancelled trains still possible . Source : I take the train daily in Belgium and have seen my share of strikes . If you are referring to the upcoming strike on December 15th , keep in mind that the train schedule changes completely on December 14th , making December 15th the first weekday of the new schedule . With the strike , in reality that will become December 16th . For this reason , I think it is wise to allow sufficient margin in your planning , even on December 16th . Source : just my gut feeling . Nobody really knows .
end question
start question
Is it easy to find milk in Laos ?
Milk is available at the only two supermarkets I 've been able to find in Vientiane and from the local convenience store chain , <URL> . There were one and two litre plastic bottles of regular and skim milk and one litre cartons of UHT milk . All the milk seemed to have Thai labels , not Lao ( though one of the companies is a Japanese company ) . This means it 's all imported from Thailand . Vientiane is only 20km from the border so I do n't know if the other corners of the country can get the fresh milk or only the UHT . Milk section of a Vientiane M-Point Mart . Soy milk is in a separate section to the left not in this photo . I 'm not sure if milk is available at the generic/independent minimarts which are much more common than supermarkets or convenience stores here . I 'm not sure if supermarkets or convenience stores exist outside the capital or the other larger cities . I assume the small minimarts will stock the same products in all towns and villages though . Now one thing I have noticed is that soy milk is very common here . The soy milk is also produced across the border in Thailand and is available at all the previous kinds of places plus even the stalls and stands on the sides of the roads . Perhaps it 's popular because it may enjoy a longer shelf life and be more suitable to being transported around the country in the hot humid conditions with bad roads in aging trucks . But of course I overlooked th fact that lactose intolerance is much higher in most of Asia than in the west and soy milk has no lactose . Compared to some soy milks it tastes very nice , comes in at least three varieties , including chocolate and an " energy " version : A bottle of Thai ไวตามิ้ลค์ ( Vitamilk ) I drank in Vientiane .
I live in Japan and every day commute with trains and metro . And can assure you that nobody will think you are rude by offering the seat . From my personal experience : I have a rule to always give up my seat to Disabled/injured people Pregnant women ( in Japan they wear a badge like this <URL> ) Elderly women and man People with huge bags ; often you 'll see women with gigantic , heavy bags they carry from shops The only thing is that I will confirm - many elderly people turn down the offer . Sometimes because they go out in the next station , sometimes they just do n't want to . But in any case they will give you a polite response . I actually feel more pressure to stay near the seat I 've given up , because Japanese will thank you many-many times after taking the seat and I feel shy of such attention for such a trivial thing . So long story short - feel free to show your kindness and do n't over-think about some people seeing it as rudeness . Especially in Japan where people are usually very polite .
I ca n't comment on Laos as I 've never been there for Songkran/New Year ( although it is probably my favorite place on the planet otherwise ! ) , however ... I was in Bangkok during Songkran several years ago ( 2004 I think ) , and it was an amazing atmosphere and experience , especially around Khao San Road . If you 're in a different part of the country there will still be some form of celebration , but it 's not as intense as in Bangkok/Khao San Road . Whether it 's worth the extra money to you is obviously not a question I can answer , but if it were me I would be handing over the $ 80 in an instant ! Keep in mind that logistically things can be a little more difficult during/around Songkran , especially if you 're staying around Khao San Road . Roads are closed/blocked , and even taxis/tuk-tuks/etc will not be able to get through so you may end up having to walk the last few blocks to/from your hotel - with the real possibility of getting very wet in the process ( although people are generally respectful of people with luggage/etc , there 's always collateral damage to worry about ... )
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
<URL> allows you to track a plane by it 's registration number . You should be able to look up the flight number , and if there is an aircraft assigned to that flight , you should be able to track the previous assignments by the tail number . This is the screenshot for N583NW which is scheduled to go from Detroit to Fort Lauderdale ( DL2002 ) at 13:15 , but is 10 minutes delayed . We can see the flight previous to this was Orlando to Detroit ( DL2460 ) , which actually landed ahead of schedule .
As a general rule : If you can get there by bus , you can get there by car . There are of course cases where there are restrictions regarding private cars , but that 's not the case for the places you 're asking about . Steinsdalsfossen og Vøringsfossen are both on FV-7 . Have a look at <URL> in Google Maps to see how to get there . Folgefonna is large , and there are many different places you can visit . If you want to start at the <URL> , it will take you <URL> .
I drank bubble tea in Hong Kong practically every day when I was travelling there but never fell ill . ( Love bubble tea ! ) The way bubble tea is packaged in machines that seals the drink in means it 's usually sold in shops with fairly good standards of hygiene . Besides , while the drink itself is not hot , bubble tea is prepared using chilled tea - and the preparation of any kind of tea does involve a stage where water needs to be boiled . That should effectively kill germs , if any , that remain in water .
<URL> gives code-share information for any flight . Looking up a flight number on that site gives a listing of its codesahres , among other flight information . For example , if you enter <URL> into the Flight Status box , click Search , and then scroll down to the " AC 8975 Flight Information " box , you see an entry saying : Unfortunately , the site only allows flights to be searched up to a few days ahead . Thus you wo n't be able to look for flights on the day you want to travel ( unless you 're planning a last-minute trip ) . But looking for the same flight number within a range of days ( yesterday , today , tomorrow , etc. , preferably including the day of the week on which you want to travel ) should give a sense of which airlines are likely to code-share the flight . Of course , this wo n't help if the flight you 're looking for is a new service that has n't yet begun , or if a particular airline pair is set to begin a code-share arrangement in the future . Notice that even if the same flight runs every day of the week , it does not necessarily have the same code-share partners every day . For example , looking up <URL> , we see that it lists only LH , not LX or CA . ( I imagine that a marketing airline might choose to share another carrier 's flight only if they have a flight of their own connecting to it on that particular day . ) As a slight alternative , you can choose " By Route " in the Flight Status search box and then enter departure and arrival airports to get a list of flights operating that route , including code-shares . Again , it does n't let you view flights more than ~ 3 days ahead , but you can see what airlines run that route by checking a few days around the current date .
I can make no subjective comment as could one who lives in the region . If you are a US Citizen , the <URL> ( what a mouthful ) published , in April of 2015 , the <URL> which covers everything from what it calls terrorism to petty crime . This report is , of course , aimed for the US Citizen traveling to Israel , Jerusalem and the Gaza strip . A non-government page to visit for example , might be <URL> . Even though it is created and run by a single individual , the guidance is helpful , appears to be from someone who actually lives in Jerusalem , and is not all positive ( or negative ) . Carefully reading through both sites , IMO , you 're as safe ( or not ) in Jerusalem as anywhere else in the world , barring of course , actual war zones .
There is no need to book anything in advance here . Go to the station , buy a ticket and take the train . After checking at <URL> , it seems that the trains from Interlaken to Grindelwald and Lauterbrunnen are not included in the pass . There is no cable car to the Jungfraujoch . You have to take a train from Grindelwald or Wengen to the <URL> station . From there you proceed by a second train to the so-called top of Europe . Both these trains are <URL> . Maybe the author of the " Rough Guide " was a bit imprecise on that ... Note that the Jungfrau railway is not included either in your Interrail pass .
Do n't worry . Finding temporary unskilled jobs in Australia is easy , the economy is booming and Australians do n't want to do them so hostels , cafes , restaurants , ski resorts , farms etc rely quite heavily on cheap , seasonal backpacker/working holiday labor . As Mark says , the easiest thing is to simply ask around at your hostel after arrival , but also take a look at <URL> to get an idea of the type of jobs and wages on offer .
In short , no . Remember , you 're dealing with a bunch of government bureaucrats here , you 'll still need to satisfy <URL> . That said , having evidence of previous travel and ( the important part ! ) having returned home will be helpful in proving that you 're not planning to migrate to the EU permanently . However , I do n't think you 'll be able to apply while still in the UK , since <URL> . The good news is that obtaining a Schengen visa is relatively easy compared to getting a UK visa : lower application fees , shorter application forms , less supporting documentation needed , more locations where one may apply ( VFS global offices in 15 + cities , if you apply from Russia ) , a straightforward application process , shorter processing times .
It is certainly uncommon enough that I have never seen this happen . Specifically , since you are asking about Balkan countries and you have tagged your post with Montenegro , I can say that this did not happen even once last month when I was traveling through 3 Balkan countries . For water taxis , we were quoted the price ahead of time but did not need to pay ahead . We did take a small group boat which appeared to have a regular schedule . In that case , we bought a ticket a few meters in front of the dock and handed that over on the boat as proof of payment . This is not what I would call a water taxi since it is not scheduled on demand .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
Sorry for answering my own question , but it looks like all flights currently go through larger Yemeni cities , and traveling by boat is likely to be just as dangerous due to Somali pirates . From the <URL> : There is a high risk of piracy in the coastal areas of Yemen . There have been attacks by pirates against all forms of shipping in and around Yemen 's waters and the Gulf of Aden . Pirates have been using motherships to attack shipping further than 1,000 nautical miles ( 1,850 km ) from the coast of Somalia . All forms of shipping are attractive targets for Somali pirates , including commercial vessels , pleasure craft ( yachts etc ) and luxury cruise liners ... maintain a high level of vigilance and to exercise extreme caution when anywhere near these waters . According to the International Maritime Bureau 's ( IMB ) Piracy Reporting Centre ( PRC ) , there were 217 attempted attacks of piracy with 47 vessels hijacked and 867 crewmembers taken hostage in the Gulf of Aden and off the east coast of Somalia in 2009 .
On top of what has been written by @toy and @user34936 , which I can support 100 % , I would like to give you the following advice : When traveling to remoter areas in Asia ( I would count Laos into that ) , and specially if you do not do so frequently ( several times a year ) , you are risking to get Diarrhea as a minimum and intestinal parasites as a worst case scenario where you run risk of severe organ damage in the long run . While the risk is , as mentioned , highest in India , there are 2 levels of caution that go along with the amount of inconvenience you have to face to execute them : Easiest level , should prevail in most developing countries in Asia , can be ignored in Japan , mostly also in Hong Kong &amp; Singapore for example : Do not drink Tap water Do not rinse your mouth with tap water after brushing your teeth ( sounds stupid , but you always ingest some of it , and if you follow step 1 , this is a direct consequence . That 's why a lot of hotels in Asia have small bottles of water now standing next to the sink instead of in the room ) Do not eat cold street food , specially fruits , ice cream etc. . Next level , should be observed in any remote , rural area of the developing countries outside of international hotel chains and in almost all of India : Do not eat any uncooked food , such as salads Do not eat unpeeled fruits and do never eat water melons . They are sometimes injected with water to make them heavier . Do not eat anything that has to have a consistent cooling chain without unfreezing such as ice cream , imported fish etc. . Basically do not eat anything that is not served by established restaurants or hotels that you would find in a tourist guide . be very careful with ice cubes . Rather drink what has been cooled in a closed container such as cans &amp; bottles than ice cubes . The issue here is that you have to decide how much you want to reduce your flexibility in the country to avoid a light diarrhea and how much experience you have when traveling across the world in remote places . You body will build up resistance against a lot of bacteria types if ingested in small quantities . However I know a person who lived in China and other places such as Hong Kong for all their life who got a parasite in India that caused a almost 100 % kidney failure and repeated operations over the following years . Also : While asking for bottled water might become quickly expensive since the hotels try to sell you Perrier etc , asking specifically for local bottled water is often a safe but very cheap alternative . Also consider that Diarrhea as such might not bother you too much , but dehydration and other consequences of that issue might cause more trouble that might severely disrupt the trip for you .
This is definitely possible . I grew up in the Alps and I can think of at least a dozen places like that . The problem is that most of them are privately owned and it might not be so easy to get access to one . There is a <URL> about renting such huts in Switzerland , but unfortunately the listings are only in German . Note that even if some of the house is not totally isolated you can be quite sure to be alone if you go there in low season during the week as those are nowadays mostly used as holiday homes . You should be looking into something which is accessible only by walking to increase your chances of being let alone . Note that most of those places will have running water ( water being abundant in the Alps ) , maybe electricity via a solar panel but most likely no Internet .
Yes , it is worth purchasing Amtrak tickets as early as possible . Amtrak does practice yield management , although it is not nearly as sophisticated as the airlines in this regard . Fares will increase closer to the date and time of travel . Equally importantly , however , Amtrak has a relatively generous change policy in that if your plans change , you only need to pay the fare difference , without a penalty or change fee . If someone purchased a ticket in a low fare bucket and then cancels it close to the departure , sometimes the seat gets released for the original price ; however , this is not something you can count on .
The places you have mentioned are in three of the ' <URL> ' : Herts , Hants , and Surrey , and I have tooled around two of the venues ( never been to the Harry Potter film sets ) . It 's debatable whether it makes sense to rent a car to visit popular tourist venues in the home counties , but that 's a topic relying heavily upon your experience in South East England combined with your agenda . The home counties are thought to be safer than say Brixton or Wood Green , but it is not prudent to assume this . Some of the hotels in those locations have a car park located either under the hotel or in a flood lit area , but even in the best of conditions you would n't want to leave your stuff in a car overnight . Put simply , it 's <URL> . The rule goes for stuff that 's visible or stored in the boot . Nobody will sympathise if anything goes missing or if the car windows are damaged ; you can expect the police to sigh and roll their eyes . If you want to keep your stuff safe overnight , carry it into the hotel . In the day time at those venues , it 's generally ok to leave your stuff visible if you are in the venue 's car park ( but not the overflow car park ) , but even then people like to cover it with a <URL> stowed in the boot for that purpose . Look around at what other people are doing , the global rule " <URL> " applies .
<URL> . It sounds like there was a major expose and resulting crackdown . <URL> also states that there 's been a massive shutdown . However , the <URL> : But two days ago , the river was still busy with more than 100 tubers . One bar was still serving drinks and organising volleyball matches but had stopped playing music . Others operated from Eskis on the sandy banks of the river , mostly for takeaway beer only . ( note , an Esky is a coolbox - Aussie word ) . ( note , a coolbox is a cooler - no idea who says coolbox ) . ( - ; It seems that despite safety restrictions , you still get situations like the following occuring : New regulations , which are not posted anywhere in town , read " You must wear a life jacket . " However , none on the river , apart from some kayaking Koreans , were doing so and a staff member at the tube rental asked customers , " Can you swim ? Then no need . " So long answer short - yes , there was a crackdown , but no , it has n't stopped completely - so to answer your question , you can probably still do it , for now .
end question
start question
Is it Possible to Exchange Turkish Lira Coins in Tbilisi ?
I 'm in Tbilisi for the past few days , so could check it here . I asked around in a few currency exchange places - and none of them accept foreign coins , lira or otherwise . One of the places suggested that TBC bank branches may be able to exchange coins , however I did n't manage to get to a bank . My advice would be to take the lira coins with you and head straight for a bank branch . While the exchange rate is n't as favourable as in independent exchange centres , at least you may stand a better chance .
Although the official currency of Peru is , US dollars are widely accepted in many places . I found out three ways to exchange dollars into soles : In banks - the banks have the worst exchange rates and there were always lines . Besides , not all commercial bank exchange money . I do n't recommend this . From street moneychangers - there are people in most cities , they wear blue vests with euro and dollar signs , and they are licensed money changers . They offer better rates than banks and sometimes you can even negotiate the rate ( almost always in Lima , not so often in smaller cities ) . I recommend this In supermarkets - most supermarkets ( like Wong , etc. ) accept payment in USD and give change in PEN . They had the best exchange rates and I frequently paid with large notes to get more money changed . I strongly recommend this . I heard that casinos , which are almost at every corner in Lima , exchange in the same way as supermarkets , and have even better rates .
It depends on what you consider ' special skills ' . With some excercise , paddling should be feasible for most people . For the English Channel , you can easily find operators and boat charterers offering planning support or equipment rent : <URL> Crossing the Øresund may not be much more than 5km ( depending on where you cross ) and can obviously be done with very simple equipment . Here 's a video of two Swedes crossing on stand up paddleboards : <URL>
The situation is very complicated . Georgia says that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are Georgian territories , and you can go there from Georgia by this border crossing : to South Ossetia from <URL> - my friends from Germany made a trip this year . If you get into these territories not by these points , you would get problems ( fee from $ 1200 or jail up to 5 years ! ) during next visit to Georgia , according to <URL> ( sorry , only in russian ) , because you 'll get stamps from Abkhazia and South Ossetia . You can only try to get new passport before visiting the Georgia . From Russia you can visit these territories by this border crossing : to South Ossetia via <URL> There is not much problem to get a visa from <URL>
Garanti Bank provides a 24h currency exchange at the airport . They have counters in the arrival halls of terminals 1 and 2 , as well as in the domestic terminal . In addition there are plenty of ATM 's . If ever the queue at the bank is too long , you can grasp some notes from a machine and exchange the Pound Sterling later on in Antalya . Note that in the city you may find better rates than at the airport . <URL> <URL>
Both in the Netherlands and Belgium you can buy semi-open tickets at the station for the other country . You can perfectly buy a national ticket for Belgium in the Netherlands and vice versa . The benefit of these tickets is that they have a validity window of 1 or 2 months . This is not the case if you buy train tickets in the respective countries self . So for local trips in Belgium you need to buy your tickets in the Netherlands and for your local tickets in the Netherlands you need to head to Belgium . Caveat : This does NOT work with tickets bought online , only with tickets issued at the train station .
Yes , for every problem with the police , you can insist to do it at the station . But I would n't choose this as first option automatically . Normally trivial things like showing your ID might extend to several hours ( with a bit of bad luck ) . Getting a car to get you to the next station , waiting there if something is more important , doing the full course of bureaucracy , ( maybe ) getting an additional questioning and a call to your hotel etc.etc . ( depending on the mood ) , paying a fee for the additional effort ( it 's not because they do n't like this behaviour , they have to collect it for certain things ) , and being released in front of the station again instead where they met you first ... If you insist on the station , make sure they know that you have everything necessary but do n't trust them , instead of being here illegally . Easier would be to ask for their ID first . They are obliged ( too ) to show it on request , and to show it long enough that you can read it carefully ( even if you do n't understand German , look at it ) . I did n't find a good image , <URL> has to do . On the backside , there is more information like the name etc. . Scammers usually show you something not withstanding closer inspection , so they do n't want you to look carefully . Additionally , if they are uniformed but without weapon clearly visible on the belt , it 's a fake ( happens often enough to mention it ) . If they refuse to show their ID and/or to take you to a station ( real refusing , not just a " is this really necessary " - thing first ) , call 133 and get some more authentic ones . If they show some authentic looking ID but you still have major doubts for some reason , call too and tell them the number of the ID ( together with location and what they 're doing ) to check it .
I 'm in the same position as you -- I 've been working in Sweden for the last 5 years , and I can tell you from experience that certain things will be difficult or nigh impossible if you do n't have personnummer . Talking specifically about banking , no , it wo n't be possible at all . Even with personal number you might run into difficulties if you are only a student and are not otherwise working in the country -- you 'll need to convince them that you actually need a Swedish bank account . Obviously , when you are working , you are already required to have a personnummer , and setting up an account would be easy in this case . Other things that might be difficult or impossible without a personal number : Buying a car from a private person Signing an accommodation contract The list goes on . Personally , I do n't see why you are surprised by this -- imagine similar situations in your own country and see how that will work out . Besides , for EU citizens it 's relatively easy and painless to obtain a personal number . But you should already have a temporary personal number which is issued with the cooperation of your education institution -- I had it when I first arrived in Sweden and did n't have to do anything special . These numbers have a letter in them as the fourth-to-last digit to distinguish them from ordinary PNs . At any rate , if you want to obtain a Swedish PN , you need to do only two things : Register with <URL> , the Swedish migration authorities . Even as EU citizen ( which I assume you are ) , you are required to register your temporary residence if you stay in the country for more than three months . Note that there are similar requirement in other EU countries , so this should not surprise you . It 's standard procedure , you should only present your letter of acceptance from the educational institution along with your passport , and it takes a week or two at the most . You should also provide some information about your current accommodation . Apply also for a Swedish personal number from <URL> ( the Swedish Tax agency , which among other things , issues personal numbers ) . This could be tricky if you are in Sweden only for a year or two ( you should have a valid cause to request one ) , but if you are persistent and persuasive , you might be able to get one -- some of the elderly ladies in Skatteverket are charmed easily , especially if you are polite and try to talk to them in Swedish . Consult the Skatteverket website for some more information , or visit their local office .
An e-mail to Kahlúa asking about tours was answered with : Thanks for your email and your interest in Kahlúa . Unfortunately we do n't currently offer a tour of the Kahlúa facilities . If you have any further questions , please do n't hesitate to ask . Best regards Martin
I would say that the right answer to your question heavily depends on how many and which museums you are going to visit . Some of them may not even allow to buy tickets online , but others may allow to print the tickets at home . Roma Pass comes in two versions : 48h and 3-days . It could be a good choice because it allows free direct entry to the first two visited museums in its 3-days version and to the first one in the 48h version . The Colosseum also has a dedicated entry for Roma Pass holders . For the museum visited thereafter you will get just a discount ( some are even free ) , but no direct access . Note that the Pass also gives access to public transports ( buses , trams , metros ) . Of course not every museum in Rome is associated with the Roma Pass ; compare the <URL> and <URL> to your plans to decide if the Pass is good for you . Public transports tickets are available at almost any newsagent and at automatic vending machines at any metro station , so you wo n't need to wait in line to get them . Each museum has its own opening hours , but as a general rule ( widely respected ) they are open on Sundays , but closed on Mondays . The Colosseum and the Baths of Caracalla are exceptions and are open also on Mondays . I hope I have helped . Have a great time in Rome !
<URL> runs two direct buses a day . <URL> runs one bus a day . It seems like both leave from the central Ortachala Bus Station . It 's helpful to know Tbilisi ( Gerogria ) = Tiflis ( Gürcistan ) in Turkish for their search fields .
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
I think that your problem here would be that you ca n't provide proof of income ( to show you 'd be able to support yourself for a year ) without tipping them off that you would be working there but not paying income tax ( since your company is not located in Laos and therefore your income taxes would go back to France rather than stay in Laos ) . Therefore , it seems like your best bet to do this legally would be to ask your employer to " transfer " you to a local Laos address so that you will be considered as " working in Laos " . Then you can also get the 1-year business visa that your girlfriend got . If that is not possible , then the only option you have is to leave the country every month and try to get a new visa by coming back . As you said , this will work for at least the first three months . After that , it may still be possible ( some border patrol wo n't care as long as you pay the fee ) , but it is also possible they will say " sorry , you used up all your renewals " - so if you go this route , you need to have a Plan B to either go back to France or stay in a neighboring country or something . If you have been dating your girlfriend for a long time ( more than 1-2 years ) AND you already live together , then you may be able to get a year long visa by contacting the embassy , explaining that you have this relation and already live together , and see what they can do for it . I have read elsewhere that some people can get a 1-year visa to stay with their spouse , so it may be possible to get one for a long-term relationship as well . You would probably need to call someone and talk to them about it though . Whatever you do , do n't try to just stay in Laos with an expired visa - it 's not worth the risk IMO .
This is definitely possible . I grew up in the Alps and I can think of at least a dozen places like that . The problem is that most of them are privately owned and it might not be so easy to get access to one . There is a <URL> about renting such huts in Switzerland , but unfortunately the listings are only in German . Note that even if some of the house is not totally isolated you can be quite sure to be alone if you go there in low season during the week as those are nowadays mostly used as holiday homes . You should be looking into something which is accessible only by walking to increase your chances of being let alone . Note that most of those places will have running water ( water being abundant in the Alps ) , maybe electricity via a solar panel but most likely no Internet .
I 'll buy a Japan Rail Pass , but I did n't understand if I can use it on nearby subway stations such as Ningyocho , Kodenmacho and others . Is it possible ? No . These are part of the Tokyo Metro , which is not operated by JR , and thus the JR pass is not valid there . The nearest JR station is Shin-Nihombashi on the Sōbu line , but it 's a commuter line that goes only one stop into Tokyo to Toyko main station , where you could change to urban Chūō or Yamanote lines . The Yamanote line itself has the Kanda station a bit further , but that 's already a significant walking distance . is it possible to visit typical tourist places in Tokyo using the JR Pass ? There are some JR lines that are useful within Tokyo , namely the Yamanote and Chūō , and together they cover many of the main tourist attractions , at least if you 're prepared to walk a bit . But you 'll often take a lot longer than if you were willing to freely use all public transportation via the <URL> . Another factor is that with the JR pass , you can not use the normal entry/exit gates - you have to find one where there 's a JR employee and show it to them ( or climb over the gates and look like a criminal ) . So basically , relying only on a JR pass within Tokyo is possible but very inconvenient . Of course you can still use it to save some money when there 's a good connection to your target through a JR line , but that would be the case far more often if you chose a hotel near a JR station .
If you ever do have a situation where a visa stamp in your passport will preclude you from visiting another country , your passport agency will likely be fine with granting you a second passport . This happens not infrequently with US journalists -- the US government issues them a second passport for what some call the " terrorism tour " countries . ( The second passport is not free and is only issued after an interview with an FSO , Foreign Service Officer . ) The idea that you can only get one passport at a time from a particular country is NOT true . Your mileage may vary if your passport is issued by a country other than the US .
Some better hostels actually do have curtains around their bunk bed , both top and bottom , but they are not many of there . Same for couchettes , some night trains have curtains but again that 's not the norm . I doubt that there is anything purpose built on the market . I think it would also be pain to carry such a thing with you all the time . I sometimes used towels or blankets borrowed from the hostel and just stuck the top end under the mattress of the top bunk . Of course this is much easier if you have the bottom bunk . I also used my mosquito net sometimes , it gives a little bit of privacy .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
For all practical purposes , the Mongolian tögrög is a closed currency , meaning you ca n't buy it outside of Mongolia . I 'm not quite certain why this is so , but probably because it seems to be illegal to take more tögrög out of the country than you bring in , so there 's no easy way for an overseas bank to gain a supply of tögrög to sell to you . ( But do n't worry about getting into trouble taking a few left-over notes out of the country . ) ATMs are plentiful in central Ulaanbaatar . They 're often inside banks , rather than on outside walls , and are typically labelled ' ATM ' or ' банкомат ' . I had no difficulty using a British bank card there . If your first stop in Mongolia is Ulaanbaatar , you wo n't have any difficulty obtaining currency . If you arrive by train , then it 's normal for a man to come down the train selling tögrög in exchange for various currencies . I brought some US dollars with me for that purpose , as that tends to be the most easily traded currency .
Yes it is valid in the UK , according to the <URL> : If you 've got a full and valid licence you can drive any small vehicle ( eg car or motorcycle ) listed on your licence for 12 months from when you last entered Great Britain ( GB ) .
end question
start question
Is there a way to save on Hawaiian Airlines checked-bags fees ?
From <URL> Premier Club Terms &amp; Conditions Check-in luggage fee waivers are limited to Hawaiian Airlines operated flights and to the first two bags for the member only . Applicable overweight and excess baggage fees will apply . Pualani Terms &amp; Conditions Check-in luggage fee waivers are limited to the member only . First three ( 3 ) bags for Pualani Platinum members and first two ( 2 ) bags for Pualani Gold members . Applicable overweight and excess baggage fees will apply . Now whether you can get eligible or not is a different question
The only easy way to attain AA status is to have it gifted to you , either by the company or by another elite . Still , there are some avenues to shorten the climb . <URL> allow Executive Platinum members who earn 125,000 EQMs to gift AAdvantage Gold status to a friend for one year . A company enrolled in <URL> can redeem 2,400 points ( equivalent to $ 24,000 in spending ) to give Gold status to an employee . AA does not generally <URL> except some cases negotiated through corporate travel departments ; however , earlier this year they pounced on problems at United to poach some upper tier Premiers with matches . <URL> -- Each calendar year when you reach $ 40,000 in spending on purchases , you will earn 10,000 EQMs . This card is also sometimes promoted with a one-time signup bonus of 5,000 EQMs for new cardholders . Completing a <URL> is usually the easiest way to attain status quickly if you have travel already scheduled , particularly if in a premium cabin as the challenge is based on EQPs , not EQMs . Note that the challenge is only offered to attain a status , not to maintain it . AA periodically runs <URL> . If you 're a true mover-and-shaker , someone who is giving AA hundreds of thousands of dollars of business over the years in full fares , you may be invited to the <URL> program . Also , while the <URL> prepaid card no longer comes with status , it does come with Admirals Club membership and priority checkin/screening/boarding .
According to flypeach <URL> : Fees and charges are quoted in the currency of your first point of origin This is typical for airline websites , but online travel agents often allow you to book in the currency of your choice . If you wish to view the price in an alternate currency , then you could install a web page currency conversion plugin .
It 's worth nothing that return flights are always from A-B-A . You 're asking for an open-jawed ( sort-of ) flight - and that 's almost always two one-way tickets . Sometimes on kayak.com they have variants that 'll show up if you select multiple airports in your " return flight " - you could try that ( in the " from " box , you can put MAD , and in the " to " box , put " DEL , BOM . However it may just find the cheapest return flight to DEL then . But it could be worth a try . I 'd suggest <URL> as another possible option . It 's like an online travel agent - you pay a small fee , and their experts find the cheapest flight they can for you . What you could do is create a contest on there , and indicate what you 've found , but that you 'd like a way to book it for the price you 've found , or for less if they can ;) ( disclaimer , I occasionally compete on there as an expert - there 's a discount link in my profile )
To follow up on my question - I emailed American to ask them if there was anything else I could do with these upgrades ; and they allowed me to convert as many as I wished to miles , at 500 miles per upgrade . I am an Exec Platinum who flies a lot with them , so this may have been a one-time offer - I ca n't guarantee if they would always do this for everyone ( I do n't think it 's in the rules ) . But it would be worth trying if anyone is in a similar position .
Route-by-route load factors are proprietary information which airlines guard zealously -- why inform your competitors about where you 're making your money and where there 's slack in the system ? Indeed , in 2004 , now-defunct JetsGo sued WestJet accusing the latter of <URL> , and of using that information to " gain an unfair competitive advantage over Jetsgo and prey upon Jetsgo 's business and operations by targeting both profitable and vulnerable routes , flight times and fares . " The best we can do is make guesses on flight-by-flight load factors based on things like available fares . After all , a flight that has plenty of T fares at 21 days out probably is n't that full . Some airlines , like United , offer an " <URL> " interface where you can see available booking classes . You could alternatively subscribe to a service like <URL> , which has the same information for multiple airlines . I would caution that seat maps are notoriously unreliable guides , as not everyone selects a seat prior to the day of departure . The seat map may be wide open , but that 's because it does n't include the tour group of 24 scheduled to be on that flight . I would add that steady capacity reductions over the last 5-10 years , enabled by airline mergers and forced by high fuel prices , mean that most flights on network carriers will be very full . As recently as 2005 , United would a block middle seat as an unpublished perk for Premier Executives , but I ca n't tell you the last flight I 've been on where the middle seat has been empty , even in Economy Plus .
Adioso lets you search for any time . Additionally Skyscanner lets you search across an entire month . Generally Skyscanner has a better range . <URL> has a good overview of searching for a trip in this way .
You can try <URL> . They do airport transfers to hotels in the CBD for about $ 36 return . They do n't state what times they operate , so you may have to call them to confirm if they run that late .
If you are flying economy If you have a baby flying with you : Take the first row of the zone you are setting in . First rows are usually where the fittings for the baby basinets are available . Also , you will be close to toilets to change diapers and so . If you are travelling with kids : Take a side of a row next to the window at the beginning or end of a zone . The windows too keep kids busy and the end or beginning of a zone to be close to toilets because kids are frequent pee-ers and vomiters . If you want to sleep during the flight : Take a window seat in the middle of a zone . In the middle to be away from noise ( lavatories and galleys ) and a window seat so no one bothers you to get in or out . If you are planning to stay awake during the flight : Take an aisle seat , will be easier for you to get out and in anytime you want to stretch your legs or just to get little social in the plane . You are a teacher and traveling with group of kids , like in school stuff : Group the kids in one part of the plane , and take a seat at the very other side of the plane . Travelling with the significant other : Cinema rule apply here , take two seats at the end of the plane either on the left or right . In many wide bodied airplanes the last row on the sides have only two seats due to the shape of the fuselage . No one will be sharing the moment with you ! If you are flying First or business class This is extremely different from one airlines to another , some airlines even provide shower rooms , bars and other services . You will get the best of the airline in these classes , limited number of passengers and many services . So no worries . Please note : I said zone , not class . Classes can have multiple zones , especially in economy class in wide bodied airplanes . A zone is usually the area between two sets of doors with a bulkhead separating them .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
People who wish they could get more liquid may be surprised to find how successful it is to say " A can of Coke please " instead of " Coke please " when they come around with the cart . On every airline that does n't charge for soft drinks , this has worked for me . It 's better than my old strategy of asking for a type of pop I thought would be unpopular like Tonic Water ( which I love ) and hoping the flight attendant would offer me the whole can . Also some airplanes have drinking water taps so you can fill your own water bottle , and even if they do n't , often you can ask for it to be filled when the cart comes around and they will ( with water , anyway . ) I have also asked while we were still loading passengers to have my water bottle filled and it has worked . On trips where I did n't bring a bottle but was very thirsty , I have also asked for " two glasses of water please " and again I have never been denied .
I remember reading a piece about these recently enough that I thought it was on here . Evidently not . Anyway , there are brands like Vapestick , which at least on their website state that it 's legal to use them onboard . I assume they 'd get sued to infinity and beyond if that was n't true , by now . <URL> : While it is n't illegal to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes , it could definitely raise questions or cause other passengers to be alarmed , so you will need to approach the situation carefully if you plan on getting away with it . However , further down the same page they also note that despite it not being illegal , many airlines do BAN it , so it 's best to check with your airline first . Electronic cigarettes on planes are banned by some airlines operating in the US . In the UK , you can still get away with it in most cases , but there 's no way of knowing for sure . The easiest way to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes without raising any questions is to smoke in the rest room . Personally I find something mildly suspect about how they tell you to ' get away with it ' and the like . If there 's a place in this modern world you really do n't want to be upsetting people , it 's onboard an airplane at 37k feet ...
You really should not use the bus for this trip - if you do n't like Russian trains , you 'll definitely will not like the buses on our roads . There are a lot of ferry companies serving this route and I recommend you to visit the <URL> on Volgograd and choose appropriate ( <URL> , for example ) . Main problem for you is to get the ticket only one-way - all companies generally sell roundtrip .
I have looked into this in the past and it 's very disappointing how insecure this functionality is in general . The only specific additional security I could find was the Amadeus <URL> which states this : PNR Security Amadeus individual pnr security allows you to set up special security rules so that a pnr can be accessed by one or several other offices . The PNR security functions may allow access to a PNR even when there are no other special agreements in place and can override agreements that are contained in the current security tables . PNR security allows you to share PNR viewing and/or updating capabilities , without changing PNR accordingly . Creating a pnr security element The individual pnr security element is an un-numbered and can only be created by the responsible office . R = For read only access : it is possible to view the pnr , but no updates are allowed . In this case the agent is given an error message at the time any pnr update entry is attempted . B = For both read and write access : full pnr update is allowed , except for change of ownership . N = For no access : the office id specified can not retrieve this PNR via extended security agreements . ( This overrides EOS ) Office IDs can include wildcards . To enable this , it sounds like you 'd have to book via a trusted travel agent who could set these specific GDS parameters for your PNR .
According to <URL> : Obtaining systemwide upgrades When you qualify or re-qualify for AAdvantage ® Executive Platinum status : And that 's it , as far as anything a typical frequent flyer can aim for in a given program year . Million Miler You get additional SWUs ( previously known as eVIPs or VIPOWs ) in the <URL> program , four for every million base miles after the first million . Thus , you get four at 2,000,000 miles , then another four at 3,000,000 , and so on . Gift SWUs can be gifted from another AAdvantage account . If you have a friend or colleague who , for example , has expiring SWUs they will not be able to use , you can ask them to have it applied to an upcoming trip of yours . There are several things to note : You must have actually booked a trip , as the SWU is applied to a particular PNR . The SWU is not transferred to your account ; it remains in the original account and is simply applied to your itinerary . The expiration date on the SWU is not reset . Bartering , selling , or trading the SWU for any other consideration is against the AAdvantage Terms and Conditions . There are <URL> people have attempted to use to sell benefits , and the airlines have no tolerance for any of them . Buying/bartering As I just said , the SWU is voided if sold or traded for cash or any other consideration -- but there 's more . AAdvantage is a private program administered by American Airlines , and so it is the judgment of American Airlines that determines whether or not you have broken the rules . They can not only cancel the cert but take away all your other miles and status , nullify your MM progress , or close your account and ban you for life from the program altogether . The airlines do monitor eBay , Craigslist , and other sites and investigate transactions they find suspicious . AA specifically was involved in the wholesale shutdown and revamping of the <URL> at FlyerTalk over these issues , and American Airlines items remain banned there completely . Customer service You 'll find anecdotal reports on the Internet of high value customers being given a SWU as a customer service gesture in some extreme cases , like someone in paid international first class being delayed two days and then downgraded to a middle seat in economy . It is likely that such a SWU would be inscribed on dragon skin , placed in a case made of unicorn horn , and delivered by a sasquatch wearing a coat of angel feathers . As you note , the SWU is an extremely valuable benefit , and an expensive one for AA . They have no reason to make it easy to obtain -- otherwise , they would essentially be giving away their most profitable seats , and the most desirable benefit offered to their most loyal customers .
The airlines all make it clear that they do not guarantee space on board for all items that are eligible carry-on luggage , as pointed out in another answer . I would presume that you can not claim a higher loss allowance for a bag just because it is forced to be checked during boarding . I would n't rely on an agent 's word at the gate , either . The best way to protect yourself is to plan to remove the valuable items and carry them on ( often times there is enough space for individual items even if there is not enough space for a standard carry-on suitcase ) . There are certain types of smaller aircraft that do not accommodate standard carry-on suitcases . Check your itinerary to ensure you are n't flying on one of those planes . They include Canadair Regional Jets , many Embraer regional jets and all prop style planes like the Dash-8 or ATR . Larger bags on these planes are always checked at boarding and returned to you upon arrival at the gate . If you can not remove the items and carry them on safely , then you should be prepared to make the case with an airline agent to be moved to another flight . I do n't know how successful you will be , and you may have to wait out many full flights before it happens , but that may be your best best to avoid checking a larger but valuable item . Edit : I will mention something from a helpful comment by Tor-Einar Jarnbjo : you might be able to purchase a second seat to accommodate a very valuable item like a musical instrument . Contact your airline to discuss this option .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
<URL> has the experimental Maglev train . For fairly obvious reasons , they generally do n't have passengers - although there 's a practical section for it . Currently it 's about 18.4 km long and will become part of the Chūō Shinkansen connecting Tokyo , Nagoya , and Osaka - but at present it 's being extended to 42.8 km to be finished by 2013/2014 , at which point the 9 trillion Yen ( !!!! ) project to build the new fast Shinkansen will kick off ( it got approved earlier this year ) . Citizens of Yamanashi Prefecture and government officials in the area are eligible for free rides , and over 200,000 people have taken part thus far . <URL> has a population of around 860,000 - so that 's quite an impressive number of the city . HOWEVER , for paying customers ( unless you 're willing to settle in Yamanashi for a while and become a resident ! ) rides wo n't restart on the test track until they near completion of this current upgrade - likely on weekends and during the summer holiday time in 2013 or later ( if it runs over schedule ) , according to <URL> . So short answer , unless you move there or join the government , you 're going to have to wait a couple of years . And now you 've got me considering a trip to Japan in 2013 ;)
If you use credit cards , then you should check into the member benefits ( if any ) associated with that card because your credit card company may automatically provide some sort of flight insurance / baggage protection if you purchase the plane ticket using that card . For example : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Wikipedia has a pretty good list of budget airlines sorted per country : <URL> This might be very helpful to decide which airline to choose . The flight search website <URL> might also help . It specifically searches airfares at low-cost carriers .
end question
start question
Staying on after a working holiday visa in Canada ?
The formal name for this program is International Experience Canada . There is essentially nothing about it on the <URL> , other than explanations of how you can bring your possessions with you when you arrive . The <URL> was n't much better but it turned out that was because the program has <URL> . Unfortunately , <URL> does n't cover your answer . My guess would be that when it ends , it ends . If you want a month of not-working to do tourist things , you should do that during the term of the visa . The website does n't seem too worried about whether you 're working or exploring , since " The goal of International Experience Canada is to discover Canada " and they let you work so that you can afford to do that . The contact page is useless , basically just says to talk to your embassy .
Does your friend know they can work while here on a student visa ? Once their course has started they can work to 40 hrs a fortnight or maybe more , depending on their visa subclass . ( See <URL> ) However , if they want to stay on after their course they 'll need a as you suggest and since they 're coming from Korea it 'd be of . The <URL> lists following requirements ( amongst others ) : be outside Australia when you apply and , when your visa is granted be applying no more than 12 months before you intend to travel to Australia Now , I 'm not an expert but it sounds to me like your friend would be ok so long as their work visa was applied for and granted before they arrived in Australia on their student visa . To be sure , I 'd suggest you/your friend spend some time checking the details online : <URL>
My wife is an immigration consultant with her own license in Canada . Here is what she said to me when I asked her to read your question of course he can just come in and visit temporarily . that 's nothing to do with his working holiday visa . he will only get a work permit upon entry when he shows his visa approval letter to the immigration officer . Every time when people enter canada , officer will ask for the purpose of this visit . Depending on the purpose , officer will decide if the person should be let in directly or directed to the immigraton office to get papers So you have got nothing to worry about , state your purpose clearly and there is no need to show your acceptance letter .
In principle , you are indeed allowed to spend another 90 days in the Schengen area , because the time spent under a long-stay visa or residence permit does not count towards the maximum duration of a visa-free short-stay , see <URL> One issue will however be how those 90 days are counted . When crossing the border , the guards might ask about missing stamps ( also on the way out ! ) . You can then show your expired residence permit to prove that you were legally present in Finland even though your last entry stamp is older than 90 days . But if you do n't have any document to account for the time between the expiration of the permit and the moment you cross the border , then that time will probably count towards the 90 days . And if the permit 's expiration date lies more than 90 days in the past and you spent the whole time in the Schengen area , then you have a problem . If at all possible , it could be easier to leave and enter the Schengen area through Finland , as the Finnish border guards might be more familiar with your situation or perhaps even be able to verify that you have an application pending . Traveling to France or Germany from there should n't be a problem after that .
Any kind of work effectively connected with U.S. i.e. performing some labor and getting any kind of compensation ( not necessarily monetary ) <URL> . What you describe fits into <URL> . Those can be arranged through some agencies ( e.g. au pair , work-travel , camp counselling and similar ) . Main purpose/focus is classified as cultural exchange , not as performing work for compensation . You will get a work permit ( as a part of visa ) for some limited time ( e.g. 2 months ) . For longer term unqualified labor ( especially ranch ) , there is <URL> , which has to be initiated by an employer , and is relatively long and complicated process .
( some of the info here might be dated - but still it might show that such a process is indeed recognized by some international laws ) Yes , Since I am travelling really a lot for business , I have encountered them in some ( special ) situation , although not in Airports , but in walk-in borders , trains or ferries - and usually where the countries have a special relation . For example , in Zuhai ( China ) where there is a walking border to Macau , you can apply for a special 3 days Chinese visa at the border itself . In Shenzen , You can apply for a special 5 days Chinese visa at the border also . Now , while those situations Can be considered a " visa on arrival " - for Chinese citizens , it is the other way around . A Chinese citizen can apply for a Macau visa ( or respectively - HK ) at the border itself BEFORE exiting China . This can be also done for other non-Chinese citizens that require a visa to HK or Macau ( I do not require one - But I have seen it done there ) Another Example is the walk-in Border between Jordan and Israel when one can apply for a Jordanian Visa BEFORE exiting Israel ( there are 3 such borders , I only have done it in one ) . Another example are some remote borders ( Can not remember the names ) between Ecuador and Colombia and Ecuador and Peru , where some years back ( actually - a lot ) I had a visa made BEFORE exiting the Ecuadorian customs , and the visa was made by Colombian and Peruvian officials INSIDE Ecuador . India and Nepal ( were ) another such example - and come to think of it - so does China and Tibet . . Back to China , in Guangzhou South train station there is a special direct train to HK , where you actually do passport control at the train station ( more than 150 km INSIDE china ) before boarding the train . A few years back ( maybe now also - I do not know ) You could have applied for a visa there also ( before buying a ticket ) So I guess yes , In some special situations these type of visas exists ( or - existed ) so they are sanctioned by international law and applied somewhere - although today in the age of e-visas and computers , I guess they are disappearing or will soon .
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
None , except the obvious : following the rules for the sake of following the rules , instead of their intent . The ziplock bag exists as a convenient ( and IMHO rather clever ) way to visualize the liquids rules : you 're allowed 1 ziplock bag of size 1 liter/quart containing items with up to 3 fl.oz / 100ml of liquid/gel each , and the TSA even brands this as the " <URL> " . If your items fit in a ziplock bag , they 're likely to comply ; if they do n't , further inspection is warranted . So why would a security checkpoint confiscate another compliant toothpaste tube just because it 's not in a ziplock bag ? Because <URL> . And for a low-level bureaucrat , there is no penalty for enforcing the rules too zealously , while using common sense but making a mistake might get them fired . Doubly so in a place like Dubai , where everything is outsourced to the lowest bidder .
<URL> Or maybe not . Butylated hydroxytoluene ( BHT ) appears in Health Canada 's " <URL> " list , with a specific permission for " Dried breakfast cereals " . So unless they 're wildly exceeding the limits , it seems unlikely that Trix would be banned for this , even though that chemical name sounds <URL> . In general , if you have the slightest doubt , declaring is always the safer route : much better to have something confiscated than be busted for smuggling . That said , I ca n't really see Canadian Customs being too bothered by a box of cereal , and there 's no need to be too specific . I 'd just ask something like " Hey , do I need to declare any food I 've got with me ? " , and when they ask what , " A box of cereal " . Odds are pretty darn high they 'll wave you on .
It should be okay for you to apply for ESTA , because the visa you hold is not a B-1 or B-2 visa . If you were to travel to the United States for purposes of tourism , or business purposes unrelated to the visa you now hold , you would in fact be required to apply for ESTA or for a B visa . ( I 'm not sure , however , what will happen if you can check in using your ESTA , and subsequently enter using the visa . ) For example , at <URL> , you can see that for an E-2 visa " you must be coming to the United States to develop and direct the enterprise . " See also at <URL> : Q : What if a traveler has a current , valid visa ? A : Individuals who possess a valid visa will still be able to travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose for which it was issued . Individuals traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA authorization . This implies that you can apply for ESTA to travel to the United States for a purpose other than one for which your valid visa was issued . You also express concern about whether you might have trouble when entering the United States , since you will have been indicated on the carrier 's passenger list as a VWP traveler , but you will be presenting a visa at entry . I doubt that you will have trouble because of it . I can think of two reasons you might : Applying for ESTA with no intention of using the VWP Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations , section 217.5 ( a ) says Each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel by air or sea to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) must , within the time specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , receive a travel authorization ... You might therefore run into trouble because you do n't actually intend to travel to the US under the VWP . But it does n't actually say that those who do n't intend to travel can not receive the authorization . Furthermore , CBP notes that people can apply for ESTA <URL> . Checking in with ESTA and entering with a visa Here , I can only speculate , but I guess that the carrier is more likely to get in trouble for this than you are . You could approach the ground staff at the airport to correct your record with information about your visa , but this would defeat your apparent purpose of getting on the plane quickly and easily .
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
If you rented the car with a credit card , you will have signed something that says they can charge these things to your credit card and it 's not disputable . The only speed-camera ticket I ever got was in a rental car ( and they tacked on a handling fee to boot . ) It took weeks to come through , but it came as a charge on my credit card . If you had driven your own car on the 407 and then not paid the toll , there would be consequences for the car . ( At one point , you could n't renew your license plates if you had outstanding tolls against that plate . ) Presumably the car people have paid the toll so that their car can still function . You now owe them the money . I am completely sure you 've signed something that holds you liable for these charges . Since you 're describing an invoice , you must have rented the car with cash or cheque . Whether to pay or not now is no different than if you had ordered something and then not paid for it once it was delivered . The country as a whole is not in the habit of enforcing these sorts of debts , so you probably wo n't be nabbed at the border , but you can be certain that the rental company will keep track of you . If they hand the debt to a collection company , it 's possible the collector would find it worthwhile to harass you from a distance . They can be pretty nasty . To me it 's simple . You signed that you would pay such things . Pay it . If it 's a lot of money and you ca n't afford it right now , contact them and tell them so , and arrange to pay it over time . But pay it . And next time stay off the toll highways ( they 're clearly signed ) if it 's not your intention to pay the toll .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
Short answer - you 're good ! Longer answer ... Germany normally requires a visa for Indian nationals , even if only in transit - however there are a number of exceptions that allow air-side transit without visa ( TWOV ) . One of those exceptions is if you have a Canadian visa , and you are in transit either on the way to Canada , or on the way to your home country ( regardless of where you are traveling from ) . Clearly your concern here is that your Canadian visa will be expired by the time you arrive in Frankfurt , however this is NOT a problem ! As long as your visa was valid when you commenced your return trip , then you will be allowed transit . So your expired Canadian visa IS sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Another of the exceptions is the same as above , but for a US visa . As you have a valid US visa , you are also covered there . So your unexpired US visa IS also sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Note that in both cases you will need to remain airside , and will need to be scheduled to depart FRA within 24 hours of arrival .
The website <URL> is a fuel calculator that works in Canada or the U.S. , and taking into account the make and model of your car and pump prices , calculates the cost of a trip . Here 's an example drive from Toronto to Tobermory , ON - It 's surprisingly difficult to get the default routing to stay in Canada ! <URL> . One of the things I love is a comparison of the cost to fly . Keep it mind , when you discover that Toronto to Vancouver in a RV comes out to $ 903 . The list of RVs is fairly scarce , however , so my 1986 Toyota Coachman is n't listed . As such , I need to click on the " Ca n't find your car " and enter its pathetic , if typical mileage - namely 10mpg . In general a Class C RV can expect 10 - 12 mpg . Class A 's ( the big busses ) are in the 8 - 10 mpg range . Fifth Wheels are completely dependent on the truck , but if you 're getting 15mpg , praise the Lord ! Ditto for Class B vans . I typically plan my costs at 10mpg ( or 3 miles per $ ) , and then celebrate that I was a little bit harsher in my calculations than reality . Be aware that older RV 's in particular do n't take kindly to the mountains , so Banff will suck down the gas more than Manitoba . Finally , remember that gas in Canada is pretty expensive . Back in 2010 , when I drove from Northern Virginia to <URL> , I found gas prices creep steadily upwards as I went further north . At the time , gas was in the low $ 3 's when I left DC , mid $ 3 's in PA ( and the mountains were terrifying as I would floor the gas and still manage no more than 20 mph ! ) , high $ 3 's in NY , and about $ 4.25 / gallon in Canada . As a Kiwi , I know you are used to buying gas in liters ( which Canada does ) , but for us ' Muricans , remember that you have to multiply by ( roughly ) 4 . You know you 're going to be in trouble when buying gas by the quart .
The problem with arranging a group trip involving anyone other than close friends is that you ( as the organiser ) can easily be left out of pocket or worse if things go wrong ; people can and will cancel at the last minute , pull out without telling you , miss their flights , trash their rooms etc. leaving you with the liability . That 's why I 'd recommend using a UK-based ( and ATOL protected ) package tour company to take care of flights , transfers and accommodation , letting you focus on your studies . They 'll be able to take payment directly from the other participants , meaning you 're in no danger of paying for someone else 's holiday . If you start looking now at package trips for winter 2013-14 you 'll be able to get an idea of prices . Start by looking on the websites but do n't be afraid to call up in search of a good deal ; if you can bring 15-30 people along they 'll love to talk to you ! Things to consider are : Transport - the larger tour companies will organise flights and coach transfer to the resort Accommodation - typically twin/double rooms ; you 'll want chalet/hotel style close to the slopes and the bars Food - getting catered accommodation ( breakfast/dinner ) means not having to deal with 30 people 's different requirements Resort - pick somewhere large that can cater for everyone from beginner to expert skiers . Large resorts also tend to have better ( or at least more varied ) apres ski and nightlife . A tour company will also be able to get you good deals on lift pass , equipment hire and lessons without tying everyone into the same option - you 'll have people who want to hire expensive kit , or bring their own . Assuming you 're travelling during the university holidays , you 'll be competing against other students for accommodation , so the earlier you book the better . You 're unlikely to be able to get commitments during the summer vacation , so aim to get the booking confirmed during the first two weeks of September - any later than that and resorts will fill up fast for the Christmas/New Year holiday , although you have a bit more leeway if you 're planning an Easter trip .
Short answer , no -- not really . You could always take a change of clothes ( or at least a different top ) in your carry on and attempt to freshen up in the toilets . Take some wet wipes too . You could also try and find a shower in the city before heading to the airport . Depending what airport you 're in there may be a way to pay for lounge / shower access -- if there 's a transit hotel they let you pay for a room for an hour . However , I really would n't worry about it that much . If you can change at least some of your clothes it 'll make a big difference but your sense of smell is significantly dulled in flight so once you 're airborne I doubt people will notice . And planes are generally pretty smelly anyway ( although you never really notice until you land and you leave ) . If you 're really worried about it try to get a seat with noone beside you ( reserve a seat at the back of the plane , do n't check-in too early , check the seat plan when you check in and change seats if it looks like there 's a better chance of getting an empty seat beside you ) . Also , do n't use the aftershave . Or any other way to mask the scent . Putting on deorderant in the morning before everything is fine . But I 'd much rather sit next to someone who 's organically a bit wiffy than someone who 's tried to douse that in aftershave . The first I 'll get used to after a while , the second is likely to give me a headache and make the flight much less enjoyable . But thanks for worrying about it -- most people do n't ( which is why you probably should n't too much either ) .
In short : Come to the airport early , security checks will take longer . You should expect a longer and more serious security check before your departure and after your landing , including questioning about your whereabouts and activities in Iran or Kuwait . If you just visited there , this should be it - your entrance is very highly unlikely to be refused . Predictive Profiling 101 : Why are you being checked ? Unlike some other Middle Eastern countries , Israel does not ban or punish tourists who have visited certain countries in the past . This is a security measure , based on <URL> often used by <URL> . This means that the passenger 's personal details are aggregated , and if they fit into a presumably dangerous profile , the passenger is thoroughly questioned prior to boarding . This method is based on hundreds of variables ( age , nationality , purpose of travel , ... ) , it 's arbitrary and unpredictable by nature , so nobody knows know if Iranian stamp will raise more questions than a Kuwait stamp . Further notes Do n't lie or hide details . Lying will probably get you into longer questioning , and you 're more likely to get banned . Questions might get nosy and personal . The terminals for Israeli ( and US ) flights are often remote and isolated , especially in European airports . Taking a special in-airport bus to an unmarked terminal is not unusual . Do really come early . For further reading about the roots and disputes about Predictive Profiling , you can also read about <URL> and the <URL> , which are taught in security courses in Israel . This is not a political statement , just the viewpoint of the security official . On a last personal note , I envy you a little ! Iran is supposed to be a truly beautiful country , a mixture of Asian and Middle Eastern geography . I hope I can visit it as a tourist , one day soon .
You were removed from the UK in 2011 when you made an application for a post-study work visa and they determined that you had submitted a forged document . You do not have your removal paperwork , and hence do not know the conditions of your removal . You may need to visit Sweden and want to know if your removal will have a pejorative effect on your application . The first step is to recover the information surrounding your removal to find out if you have been placed on an exclusionary register . To do this , you can file a <URL> with the Home Office and wait for their reply . This can be frustrating because you will need to clear identity hurdles imposed by the <URL> and several exchanges of correspondence may be needed . Having cleared all the identity hurdles , they may opt to refuse your request . They would do this if you have been placed upon an exclusionary register . If this happens you will have to take it up with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in your own country because you have no further recourse with the UK ( or any other country the UK exchanges information with ) . If they reply , you should then take the information to a specialist practitioner in the <URL> for a consultation . They will be able to tell you if a ban is currently in effect and the extent to which you are vulnerable going forward for the rest of the EEA . Your selection of a practitioner should be informed by the list of firms that have a branch office ( or correspondence status ) with Sweden . The list is <URL> . For the UK part of your question and given that a ban is not currently in effect , the next time you apply , the ECO will be required to place a mandatory ban under <URL> ( where the applicant has previously contrived in a significant way to frustrate the intentions of the Rules by : ... ) ( emphasis mine ) . There is no discretion permitted . For the EU part of your question , the UK is a participant in the <URL> and is required to place an alert entry in SIS whenever an in-country removal has been ordered . Both an alert entry and exclusionary entry are causes for Schengen refusals . Depending upon the circumstances of your removal , the UK may have also made an entry in the <URL> and this will also prompt a refusal . For your tacit question about ' change of circumstances ' , your solicitor will know how to frame this change in a positive and convincing light and to provide the necessary supporting documentation such that you have a better chance of success ( but not guaranteed ) . I estimate that the ' all-in ' costs for consultation and subsequent application would start at about # 700 and range to about # 1,500 depending upon their competence in the field and other complexities in your case .
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
end question
start question
Which consulate should issue me a Schengen visa if I transit through several Schengen states ?
Since there is apparently no " main destination " in your trip , your visa application should be processed by the first Schengen state you will enter , in your case Germany . This is from article 5 of the Schengen visa code ( Regulation ( EC ) No 810/2009 ) : The Member State competent for examining and deciding on an application for a uniform visa shall be : ( a ) the Member State whose territory constitutes the sole destination of the visit ( s ) ; ( b ) if the visit includes more than one destination , the Member State whose territory constitutes the main destination of the visit ( s ) in terms of the length or purpose of stay ; or ( c ) if no main destination can be determined , the Member State whose external border the applicant intends to cross in order to enter the territory of the Member States . [ I highlighted the most important bit ] The border between Germany and Austria is an " internal border " , which is why there will be no systematic passport check when landing in Vienna . Frankfurt is where you will cross the external border to enter the Schengen area ( which is called " territory of the Member States " in the official regulation ) .
Ah , German nitpicking ... Willkommen in Deutschland ! But have no fear , since this is Germany there 's a well-defined process for appealing . The German Embassy in Manila , Philippines has a <URL> about how to apply for a " remonstration against " ( their term ! ) the visa rejection , and I 'm sure more or less the same process applies for the Chennai consulate . Quoting the relevant bits : You can remonstrate only in writing , and your remonstration must contain the following details : Your name , first name , date of birth , place of birth , and the number of your passport The date your application was rejected A serviceable address that contains the street name , house - or apartment number , City / Town / Village , postal code , if applicable : please state your e-mail address The remonstration must be signed by your own hand ( a remonstration by a third party e.g. your sponsor , can only be accepted and processed if you have given your sponsor a power of attorney , which is submitted with the remonstration ) . And If you applied for a visa of the category " C " ( Schengenvisa ) , the deadline for filing the remonstration is one ( 1 ) month after your received the letter of rejection . You can submit by mail , fax or e-mail , but if e-mail , you have to send in a scan of a printed letter with your signature . And obviously the better you can explain the discrepancy ( a revised letter and/or note from your office should do nicely ) , the higher the chances of success . Incidentally , if your remonstration also fails you can apparently try once more with the High Court in Berlin , but that 's probably a bit overkill for a tourist visa ...
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
The purpose of your visit fits tourism ( this is the what you should tick on the application form ) . You will need to supply : Proof of funds Invitation letter from the conference . Airline reservation Hotel reservation ( in your name ) for the period of your stay . In addition to the normal requirements ( photo + application form + insurance + passport ) . Your passport should be valid for 6 months after you intend to return . You are a high risk applicant - therefore you should demonstrate significant ties to your home country before applying . There is only one short stay temporary visa ( the " Schengen visa " ) . The difference is the documentation you need to provide for the application which depends on the purpose of your trip - but the visa you get ( for short trips ) is the same .
I have no experience with this particular scenario and ca n't tell you exactly how this particular Spanish consulate will treat your application but in theory it should not be an issue . As far as the regulations are concerned , you should have a legitimate purpose and the financial means to pay for your accommodation , nothing more . There is absolutely no obligation to have each and every night accounted for and technically , you do n't even need any specific booking or reservation , although it can be useful to support your application . Your other question suggests you applied for a visa for a longer , more complex trip . If you do get a multiple-entry or two-entry visas from October 1st to the end of your trip to Greece , it would also allow you to enter on the 11th so the whole issue is moot ( there is no such thing as a visa valid for one entry on the 1st and one entry on the 12th , it 's either a single-entry visa or two entries at any time during the period of validity ) . Since you are , as far as I can tell , a UK resident with a good profile , my guess is that you will get a multiple-entry with enough flexibility not to worry about this . But even if you do n't , you would still have the option of shortening the trip at the other end ( returning to the UK one day earlier to avoid going over the maximum stay limit ) .
Yes you can enter Cyprus with your valid Schengen visa as long as you have used the visa before to enter a Schengen country . From <URL> of the embassy of Cyprus in Finland ( Could n't find the page of the Embassy in Saudi ) , also the embassy in Russian <URL> : Third country nationals , holders of a valid Schengen visa ( type : double or multiple entry ) , who have already entered the Schengen area in accordance with the terms upon which their Schengen visa was issued , may travel to Cyprus without a Cypriot national visa and stay in Cyprus for a period equal to the remainder of the time for which the Schengen visa is valid .
I had to deliver exactly that some months ago . It is right what you described , and it makes not much sense at all , but that 's what they want . A ' notary public ' is a very common side-qualification , every office has typically one or two people that carry it . What you do is make photocopies of your ( Green Card ) , the go to a Notary Public show your ID , and sign in front of the notary public that you confirm that the copy is identical with the original they give you a seal that confirms that they saw your ID and they saw you signing . Note that the seal does not need to be on the photocopy ( but it can ) . This was accepted without questions , and - I asked them - that 's what they wanted . Of course , that leaves various obvious avenues of cheating - you can bring a picture of your dog instead of the requested photocopy , and the notary public would not care ; and you can replace the photocopies after the sealed stamp is signed , as they are on different - not physically connected - sheets of paper . The core point is that you signed it , and the notary just verifies that is was you that signed . If anything turns out wrong or fishy , they know whom to talk to - you signed it for correctness . There are probably better ways - like have the notary public make the photocopies and put the seal physically onto them - but that is not what is done in the USA . For whatever reasons .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
You should not apply for a tourist visa , but apply for an " <URL> " instead . You ask the EuroPython to send you an invitation letter and then use that to <URL> . The <URL> should be in Italian .
There are no requirements to provide proof of onward travel when entering the Schengen area . What you do need is adequate ' means of subsistence ' both for the intended period of stay and for onward travel out of the Schengen area . Each Schengen country has their own guidelines when it comes to the required amount of money . Iceland operates with a guideline of 4,000 krona per day , meaning that you with 360,000 krona or about US$ 2,800 have enough money for the allowed 90 days . Even if you need additional money to buy a return ticket , you are well beyond the required amount if you dispose of US$ 25,000 .
You could try talking to the Pakistani Embassy to find out if presenting a British passport at the same time as your Turkish one might count as " having a British visa " . It might depend on the exact legal definition . Getting a UK visa when you are already a UK citizen is going to problematic , even if it is possible , and may make someone suspicious of why you are doing it . You could also try to obtain a Schengen or US visa with your Turkish passport , both of which should be possible . However the point of the exercise seems to be to avoid getting a Pakistani visa in advance - but to do it you have to apply for another visa ( in advance ) . Unless there is a really good reason it would seem to be simpler to just apply for a visa from Pakistan
Why yes there is . <URL> . You enter your nationality , destination , and any visas you already hold , and it will tell you if you need a transit visa or not . It also includes instructions for applying for one . HOWEVER : There have been changes taking effect Dec 1 2014 to which countries ' nationals require transit visas . Regardless of the link above , <URL> . Procedures remain the same . Beware that the exemption conditions for visa-less landside transit are slightly different from the exceptions for Direct Airside Transit . As of this writing , the page linked above erroneously refers to a document describing the landside exemptions even from its section about DATV ; refer to the <URL> for the actual DATV exemptions . As a summary ( but check for exceptions ) : You must arrive and depart by air , and your outbound flight must be booked and confirmed . You do n't need a transit visa if you would not need a visa for a tourist visit to the UK . A transit visa comes in two forms : Direct Airside Transit Visa ( DATV ) which is limited to 24 hours and you must remain ' airside ' ( i.e. can not pass through immigration ) and a Visitor in Transit Visa , which is valid for 48 hours and allows you to change terminals or airports . You must have all the necessary documentation for your final destination , including any visas . You are exempt from needing a transit visa under certain conditions . These can be found at <URL> . As of 25 June 2015 , the conditions are : You might be eligible for ' transit without visa ' if : you arrive and depart by air [ you ] have a confirmed onward flight that leaves on the day you arrive or before midnight on the day after you arrive [ you ] have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : you 're travelling to ( or on part of a reasonable journey to ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and it 's less than 6 months since you last entered that country with a valid entry visa you have a residence permit issued by Australia or New Zealand you have a common format residence permit issued by an European Economic Area ( EEA ) country or Switzerland you have a residence permit issued by Canada issued after 28 June 2002 you have a uniform format category D visa for entry to a country in the EEA or Switzerland you have an Irish biometric visa and an onward flight ticket to the Republic of Ireland you 're travelling from the Republic of Ireland and it 's less than 3 months since you were last given permission , on the basis of holding a valid Irish biometric visa , to land or be in Ireland you have a valid USA permanent residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 you have a valid USA I-551 Temporary Immigrant visa issued by the USA ( a wet-ink stamp version will not be accepted ) you have an expired USA I-551 Permanent Residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 , with a valid I-797 letter authorising extension you have a valid standalone US Immigration Form 155A/155B issued by the USA ( attached to a sealed brown envelope ) You wo n't be able to transit without a visa if a Border Force officer decides you do n't qualify under the immigration rules . You can <URL> before you travel if you 're unsure whether you qualify for transiting without a visa . If you need more information than is provided by this website you will need to check with your airline or <URL> . The Home Office 's <URL> also provides some guidance on the subtler points of the rules ( it 's intended for professionals , not passengers , but does explain in great details when a visa is or is not required ) . Changes to the rules activating on 1 December 2014 A Statutory Instrument entitled " The Immigration ( Passenger Transit Visa ) Order 2014 " will make large portions of the above text obsolete . Please refer to the instrument itself at <URL> until further guidance becomes available . The government 's interactive page , which leads the user through a series of questions will take some time to sync up with the legislation ( if ever ) and should NOT be relied upon after the 2014 order takes effect . Note on UK Border Control In London Heathrow , if you fly from outside the UK or Ireland and leave to another country ( neither UK nor Ireland ) , it is possible to transit without entering the UK and going through UK Border Control , you can stay airside . There is no hotel airside , so <URL> , you have to go through UK Border Control . There is a <URL> available on Heathrow airport website . Update 25 July 2015 : Visa Seniority People on any kind of valid UK visa that is senior to a transit visa do not need an additional visa . It means the person ca
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
No , you can not . Apart from very specific circumstances , visas must be obtained in advance from your country of usual residence .
This is taken up in Article 15 of <URL> ( otherwise known as the ' Schengen Visa Code ' ) , which says ... The insurance shall be valid throughout the territory of the Member States and cover the entire period of the person 's intended stay or transit . The minimum coverage shall be EUR 30 000 . and for the case of multiple entry Schengen visas ... Applicants for a uniform visa for more than two entries ( multiple entries ) shall prove that they are in possession of adequate and valid travel medical insurance covering the period of their first intended visit . So any day ( or partial day ) that the applicant is in the zone , these paragraphs would apply . To calculate the minimum coverage , add up the days between arrival and departure inclusive and you will meet the requirements of Article 15 .
When it comes to traveling within the Schengen area , a type D visa is equivalent to a regular residential permit . You are basically allowed to visit other Schengen countries for up to 90 days within a 6 month period . There are some caveats - you must carry your passport or equivalent travel documents , be able to document the purpose of your visit ( going on holiday should be enough ) , document your ability to finance the trip , be of no danger to national security or public health and not have been specifically expelled from the country you are traveling to . Since there is no immigration control on the borders between Schengen states , these requirements are in most cases rather theoretical . If however you should be checked , you probably save a lot of hassle if you have the required documentation handy .
To be somewhat of a nitpick , there are two types of bounces . The more common type is when a visitor arrives who does not need a visa ( e.g. , Canadian , American ) or already holds a visa . I wrote a very detailed description of this in an article which starts with ... Sometimes people arrive in the UK and do not perform well in their landing interview ; some people lie , some plan to abuse the system , others exhibit strange behaviour , some appear to be incoherent . And others do not have a convincing reason to be in the UK , for example some people visit too often and other people appear to be a potential overstayer . A percentage of these visitors get ' bounced ' ( i.e. , turned around , denied entry , refused entry , sent home ) . This most frequently happens to Americans , Canadians , Austrailians , and New Zealanders . Even though these nationalities do not generally require visitor visas in advance , they are required to have a convincing reason to visit the UK and to exhibit that they are not a potential overstayer . What happens when somebody gets bounced ? Clearly many situations are too hopelessly complex to even attempt explanation in an article like this ; but we can take a look at some common features . Things begin with the Immigration Officer ( IO ) , who may have observed the person acting strangely ( or stressed ) in the queue , or who may not be satisifed with the response to one of his questions ( for example lying or intending to break our laws ) ; or worse , the person is flagged up on the computer . At that point the IO will remove the person from the rest of the traffic so that other travellers can be processed . This is called ' being detained ' . The first level of detention is a segregated area in the arrivals hall . The person detained may be escorted to the luggage collection area to collect their luggage and to consign this to UKBA for inspection . The complete article is here ... <URL> The other type of bounce is when someone is transiting the UK and does not have the requisite DATV visa or fails to qualify for the concession . These are not very common because the Immigration Act 2000 stipulates fines for the airline and as a result the airlines will apply lots of diligence before take off . In the usual case , the person will not be allowed to board the flight . The Office of National Statistics produces a report that indicates the OVERALL chance of a bounce is 1 in 3,000 , and I think the bulk of those are of the first kind . If you subscribe to their publications you will get an email notification when new statistics are available . Our laws mandate that the decision to admit or bounce lies solely upon the Immigration Officer who conducts the landing interview with the agreement of the duty CIO . I have never seen a case where a CIO has overruled an IO 's decision , but the law allows for it to happen . You would be surprised at how many are American women coming over to see a guy they met on the net . It 's fine to do that , but incredibly they lie about it and get caught in a lie . If an IO catches you in a lie , you are out of here . So what goes through an IO 's mind when they smell a bounce ? What are they thinking ? What signs are they looking for ? Fortunately , the Home Office Research Unit has published two studies on exactly this topic . Do n't ask me for the links because I make hard copies and save them on my hard drive , and the Home Office site gets reorganized at the drop of a hat anyway . Any link I posted would be rotted following the next election . Basically the IO will suspect single women travelling alone , young men with lots of technical gear , people with lots of cash , people presenting brand new passports who have recently renewed their passport ( you 'll understand why ) , people with no peripatetic history , people who are stressed or acting nervous , and the list goes on . Business men and women , for example , get bounced frequently because they do not have a work permit . Once you get bounced , you 'll have your biometrics on file plus your passport will be recorded ( changing passports does not help ) . And whether you like it or not , your biometrics will be sent to the USA . So to answer the question : Yes , reports have been published on how the IO reaches a decision ; and yes , statistics are available . Posting their links in SO invites quick rot . Having said that , you can use this link to get started . <URL>
In general , it does not make sense to appeal for something like that . Whether an appeal is likely to succeed depends on the specifics of your situation and it 's not a good idea to discuss all this on this site . You would need help from a Greek legal professional ( which is presumably neither cheap nor easy to get from Abu Dhabi ) to get an informed opinion about this . But even if you have solid grounds for an appeal , it can take a ( very ) long time and it 's impossible to do without knowing the local language and legal system ( that 's always true but the letter you received even states as much in the last paragraph ) . Additionally , the letter also suggests that lodging an appeal by post without formally hiring a lawyer is simply not possible in Greece ( it is in other Schengen countries ) , which makes any appeal more expensive than a fresh application , even if you know Greek and feel confident drafting it yourself . So in practice you are not going to quickly get satisfaction and save your trip that way . You will only receive an answer several months from now , long after your bookings have expired and your holidays are over . At this point , there wo n't even be a valid premise for your application ( it makes no sense to issue a visa for a trip supposed to take place in the past ... ) An appeal only really makes sense if you have strong legal arguments and no hope to succeed in another application ( and of course for long-stay visas but that 's another thing entirely ) . Alternatively , you could still lodge a fresh application . Even taking the fees , documents , etc. into account it would still be much cheaper than an appeal and definitely quicker . But only do that if you think there is something you could add to make your case stronger ( detailed itinerary , bookings , etc. ) without making you look unreliable ( do n't make up a story ) , otherwise you risk getting a new refusal and damaging your credibility for the future .
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
There is nothing in the regulations that prevents an applicant from using a hospitality exchange or social networking for accommodation . They would treat these arrangements in the same way as if friends were offering you a place , but since they are not real friends , you will need to be a bit careful with how you present your evidence . It means you ca n't just say ' couchsurfing ' on your application ; instead you 'll need to demonstrate that firm arrangements are in place with each provider and that these arrangements are an acceptable substitute for a personal invitation . It would be wise to include a ' backup provider ' for each place you plan to stay to show that you have a contingency if the planned accommodation is not available or turns out to be unsafe or unlawful or otherwise unacceptable .
end question
start question
Are there age restrictions to stay in some hostels ?
Yes , at least in Germany there are two kinds of " hostels " : The first kind of hostel and the one generally meant by " hostel " is the youth hostel ( Jugendherberge ) which is managed by the DJH . You need to buy a member card ( also available on the fly ) to stay there and if you are over 27 , you must pay the full price ( which is still very low for a year ~ 15 $ ) . You are also less ranked than young people so if the house has many young visitors you may not get a room . Additional info : In Bavaria , a state of Germany , it was forbidden until 2005 to stay at a youth hostel if you were over 27 . Perhaps your friend comes from there ? The other " hostels " are meant for backpackers and do not need a card as they are private . Both hostels are not so cheap anymore , I have found pensions and hotel rooms with much more comfort which were only slightly more expensive . So look out for room prices .
I did this two and a half years ago , and took a 75L pack and a day pack . My friend also had one , and the six others in our group also had backpacks plus odds and ends . There was no problem . However , the train was also only half full ( October ) . I imagine the rules are there so that in the peak season , if it 's busy they can then start enforcing them . So short answer - it depends on when you go , and what staff you get , and how full the train is :)
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
Nizhni Novgorod used to be a military stronghold with a very large production capacity for weapons . This is why it was closed under Soviet rule <URL> so foreigners could not travel there . Also Russian nationals were strongly limited , some of them went there <URL> . Many cities were closed at one point in time and <URL> . Nizhni Novgorod still today has some leftovers of this status and his therefore restricted . You need an invitation from " inside " the city to be allowed to enter from outside the country . It 's a legacy they did not get rid of until today .
I used to live near Regent 's Park and used to pass through on foot after closing times . I also took evening courses at <URL> which let out after closing times . Starting from the <URL> , you can take York Street and turn right after you cross the Outer Circle . This will take you to a wide grassy field abuting a children 's playground . It 's an area of the park called " Marylebone Green " in which you can star gaze . In this area you are also likely to see walkers returning from Marylebone to Primrose Hill . Depending upon the season , you may also see street urchins near the tennis courts collecting stray tennis balls . They may be undesirable company . There are other areas of the park which also can be reached from York Road/York Gate . Hyde Park is less restricted than Regent 's Park and you would be able to star gaze in the grassy fields immediately south of <URL> . Take care . I 'm also a member of a <URL> in Marylebone which has called for an alert on people molesting the swans at night . If you wander too close to the ponds , you might find a neighbourhood vigilante calling you in . Locals take those sorts of things with <URL> . Also avoid the ducks who might be feeding in the grassy areas . The comment by <URL> ( to whom thanks ) correctly points out that portions of the park are gated and if you get caught entering a gated area you 'll get a <URL> . Accordingly , stay away from the <URL> in Regent 's Park and other gated areas like in <URL> . Generally , the overall public mood is ' live and let live ' and that patrolling the park for out-of-hours violations is rather far down the list of police priorities . As long as you are not in a gated area and you have a reasonable premise , you 'll be fine .
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
While I have n't been myself , I 've done some research so figured I may as well share . For tours and excursions : <URL> - desert safaris , and they describe a sea of sand stretching as far as the eye can see . They have half day , full day and custom trips - which could include camel safaris , or camping under the stars . <URL> - promote themselves as more environmentally-focused tourism . As for accommodation , you have n't really specified budget , medium or high : For budget - <URL> sounds the most fun and scenic , with " nice garden with trees and fire pit , where the staff will sit at night with guests . Roof terrace with a view of the oasis and Shali " ( review on Wikitravel ) For medium - <URL> - sounds pretty smart for good value , and has some exotic local foods on the menu - date omelet , lamb casserole or vegetarian tajin , each flavored with fresh herbs of the oasis . For deluxe - two amazing and different options - the <URL> - with no electricity , the rooms are softly lit with a dozen beeswax candles , and around the corner , the Tamazigh , a smaller hotel , with a spring-fed pool and some rooms made entirely of salt !
It 's been around for awhile . It 's an international flight regulation , they need to be stored safely in your carry on . Plus the luggage store is n't heated , it 'll likely deteriorate the performance of your batteries anyway . Try carrying rechargeables with a charger if you 're close to hitting the restrictions . I usually travel with a full suite of camera and computer equipment and no one 's ever said I 've been carrying too many batteries on board . Update : Did some research and it turns out it 's the short circuiting of loose batteries that have caused issues since early 2000 . Apparently it 's not much of an issue if it 's installed in a device , but loose batteries not stored in original packaging have caused issues in the past . Here 's the link : <URL>
More likely it was a group that happens to go to a mall to walk , as well as other events . For example , you can look in a city on <URL> for social groups . I 've joined a few in Vancouver . Several of them will advertise walks - be it around the waterfront , a hike , or quite likely indoors . Indeed , a <URL> will reveal a few - for example , <URL> .
Most airlines set a minimum age where children can travel alone . The exact policies will vary between airlines , but they generally work like this : Minimum age to fly alone at all . This is often around age 5 for airlines in the US . Children below this age must always fly with a parent or other responsible adult . Unaccompanied minor service . Some airlines offer this service for an additional fee . It is often required for children age 5-11 or so and optional for kids 12 + , but the rules and age cut-offs vary between airlines , with some requiring it through age 14 or even 15 . The airlines will also set rules about when this service can be used : some wo n't offer it on international flights , or itineraries with any connections , or itineraries with tight connections , etc. . . With this service , an adult must bring the minor to the airport , get them checked in and signed in with the airline , and airline staff will escort them from place to place as needed until they arrive at the destination and an authorized adult shows ID and picks up the child . On board , the flight attendants will introduce themselves to the unaccompanied minor and will give them some extra attention , though kids are still generally on their own during the flight and should be able to occupy themselves . If there are connections , airline staff will escort the child to their next flight . In many cases , the adult dropping off the child must wait at the airport until the departing flight has taken off as well . No supervision required . Above this age ( somewhere between 12-15 for many airlines ) , the airline 's policy does not require any supervision . Some airlines may still offer optional unaccompanied minor service for older travelers if parents want to pay for it . Parents should still consider their child 's maturity and their ability to solve problems or get help if things go wrong . As always , parents need to know their kids best and decide what is appropriate for them . Many five-year-olds may not be ready to fly by themselves , especially if they 've never been on an airplane before . Some 12-year-olds may be seasoned world travelers and not need any assistance . Ultimately , parents need to decide this for their kids before making travel plans . There 's a big difference between a direct one-hour domestic flight and a three-stop 24-hour around-the-world trip . The exact policies and even the availability of these services will vary from airline-to-airline ( and many low-cost-carriers do not offer unaccompanied minor service ) , so it 's important to research all possible airlines and the fees involved before booking tickets . Most airlines have a page on their website explaining the policy , and a search for the name of the airline and " minors " will bring it up . I certainly would n't say that it is " extremely dangerous " for kids to travel alone . As with all travel , there 's a risk that things can go wrong due to delays , missed connections , bad weather , etc. . . The result is generally lost time and inconvenience , which may certainly be stressful for kids , but is n't " extreme danger . " All the requirements for human life , telephones to call home , airline staff who look after unaccompanied minors , etc. . . are all available at airports .
<URL> . Tourism Information Center ( Fonatur ) Ph : 84 29 59 ; Downtown Ave. Nader at Ave. Coba , SM 5 This is <URL> , although it 's worth noting that apparently they shorten street names , so the actual street name is Avenida Carlos Nader .
These normally are handled by the states department of Agriculture and are usually related to plants but if you 're concerned with what you 're bringing in first advice would be : Do n't bring it with you . Second would be check the quarantine list and requirements from <URL>
The usual commercial problem with sleeper trains is that the vehicles carry significantly fewer passengers than a seated vehicle and often either can not be used at all in daytime , or are stuck at the same capacity as they have overnight . The standard capacities for a European train carriage ( 26m long , with a toilet ) are 36 for a sleeper , 54 for a couchette ( roughly hostel-equivalent accomodation ) , 57 for a first-class seated carriage and 76 for a second-class seated carriage . The proportions will be similar for buses . This means that the sleeper cars have to earn enough money from fewer passengers doing one overnight journey to match several daytime journies for a seated car - but the sleeper is generally more expensive to buy and more expensive to run ( overnight pay for the driver , and usually attendants in addition to the guard/conductor ) . This means that fares have to be a lot higher for a sleeper to make a profit . Sleeper trains have been run by European railways as a loss-making public service , but are being wound down as railways become more commercial . Sleeper buses are going to have a similar set of problems - they will cost more to buy than a conventional bus , and will carry fewer passengers , and will have higher running costs ( at the very least , the bedding will need to be changed and washed ) - and they ca n't be used for daytime journeys , so they will probably sit in the middle of the day . That means they will need to charge a substantial fare premium over a seated coach to make a profit ( at least double and more likely triple the fare ) . In countries where there are good alternatives like car rental or cheap flights , then this is likely to limit the market . Unless they can offer something distinctive ( like an early morning arrival in a city where the airport is not allowed to have night landings ) , they may struggle to get passengers . If there is n't an existing regulatory regime for getting sleeper buses approved , then the costs of getting the government to create one are likely to be too great for an operator to be prepared to pay - and note that some countries prohibit them entirely . Germany is a really important one , as many of the likely routes in Europe would run through Germany , but the German government banned sleeper buses in 2006 .
<URL> If you select Terminal 2 International and click on each one of the shops listed , you 'll see that a few of them are found before security . These are : Jaya He Museum Store Jaya He Museum Store offers exquisite art , craft and design based collectibles made by renowned and upcoming artists of India . Pick exquisite art and craft forms in contemporary styles inspired by the Jaya He GVK New Museum at T2 . The Museum store also feature an exhibition outlet selling real time works of celebrated artists in the original form as well as product adaptations . Location : Departures , Level 4 Kama Ayurveda Browse through Kama Ayurveda 's treatment based and Internationally acclaimed holistic solutions for the skin , hair and body made with pure , natural and organic ingredients . Location : Terminal 2 , Level 3 , South-west pier , International Departures Xpress Xpress is a one-stop airport shop for a wide assortment of books &amp; magazines , choicest Indian snacks , beverages , gift items , toys and daily essentials . Stopover to pick up a few essentials before you board . Location : Level 4 , International Departures , Before Security Check Level 2 , International to Domestic Transfer Area Level 3 , International Departures , After Security Check , South West Pier I 'm not sure what means , but there might even be a pharmacy available at Terminal 2 : Apollo Pharmacy Forgot first aid for the long trip ? Headache ? Tummy trouble ? Head to the Apollo Pharmacy for all your medical needs . Location : Departures - Opposite Security Check Area - 1 I 'll let you search for available shops in the remaining terminals .
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
Travel Insurance is not a commodity , and can vary widely between companies . You 'll usually be offered insurance at the same time as booking a holiday , but can arrange separately - here 's what you need to check out ; Is Your Destination Covered ? It sounds obvious , but policies vary and if you do n't know what you 're looking for , they can be confusing . Some providers , for example , will include countries such as Turkey and Egypt under European cover , while others wo n't . Worldwide cover , meanwhile , does n't always include the USA , Canada and the Caribbean -- so ensure your policy does if you 're heading out that way . Also , check the insurance will cover you for the duration of your whole stay When selecting which travel insurance policy to go for , it 's important to check how many consecutive days abroad you 'll be covered for . Limits vary depending on the provider , and if you go over this limit , even if it 's only by a day , you will invalidate your insurance . Check for limits After all , the last thing you want is to make a claim on your travel insurance only to find you 're not covered for what you had lost . Work out exactly what you 're bringing with you to ensure you have the correct amount of cover -- we recommend that you have at least the following . # 1,500 baggage cover # 250 to cover lost cash # 3,000 cancellation cover -- or enough to cover the total cost of your holiday <URL> Other things to bear in mind include ; When can I actually claim and how ? Check the documents carefully , do n't get caught out . Is your medical condition covered under a policy ? Also . do n't lie about medical conditions - this will void the policy . ALWAYS READ THE SMALLPRINT !!! Thus could contain the most important information for you . Again , do n't get caught out . The most important part has to be about Claiming . Make sure you are certain that you have enough amount of cover and know how to claim if necessary . The process is n't particularly difficult , as long as you do n't fall in any traps .
Typical " earliest checkin " times are between 12:00 and 16:00 - but if your concern is luggage , it 's not really relevant as pretty much all hostels and hotels offer to safely store your luggage for you before checkin and after checkout . Some Hostels additionally have personal lockers , since dormitories are more or less publically accessible , so you do n't want to leave valuables in them .
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
Firstly , I have slept in plenty of hostels in the UK , without using a YHA card . Any hostel on HostelWorld or <URL> will let you stay there without any loyalty cards . Your best bet is to follow this approach : Go to Hostelbookers ( often cheaper than Hostelworld ) . Choose country , city , and dates . Look at the ones available . Generally they have dorms ( multiple people in a room ) from 3-30 ( ! ) , depending on the hostel . Evaluate based on amenities , price , reviews and the type - some are party hostels ( generally the atmosphere rating is high then ) , some are more low key and friendly . Check for things like - are families welcome ( you may not want kids around ) , does it have a bar ( often louder and drunker ) , and so on . If it 's a HI Hostel ( Hostelling International ) or a YHA one , you can get discount cards for those groups . Often however , you can negotiate on arrival if it 's not too busy , or ask for a discount for multiple nights - generally for smaller or owner-operated hostels . Book ahead , especially in summer - if you have a limited selection , some towns sell out fast at certain times , when festivals are on , for example . Sometimes you 'll start to see similar hostels - chains - in different cities ( eg The Point hostels in South America ) . This gives you an idea as to the standards and conditions and style of the hostel ( also Base in New Zealand , and Wombats in much of Central Europe - Austria and Germany ) . You sometimes get discounts for staying at the same chain - loyalty if you will . The Point used to give free drinks and a t-shirt . Go figure . Of your country list , one exception is Croatia . There are still hostels , but if you go to the Plitvice National Park , there are entire streets near the entrance with normal homes . They have signs outside with either ' no room ' , or a price - and you can rent a room in a house for a night . It was fantastic , private , and very reasonable .
end question
start question
Internal train travel in France - cheaper on day , or when pre-booked from UK ?
Between Paris and Tours you can either take a TGV ( highspeed train ) or an " Intercités " ( classical train ) . Both are cheaper when booked in advance . The full fare for a 2nd class TGV ticket is 65 EUR . Booked in advance it can be as cheap as 25 EUR . For Intercités the range goes from 15 EUR to 36.20 EUR . You should also know that TGVs can sell out . If you are really unlucky and show up at a very busy day , there may be no more seats available .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Certain large travel agents negotiate <URL> with airlines . The link is a few years old but I do n't think there is anything significantly out of date : A consolidator will have a contract to sell private fares at a lower price than the published fare . If there 's a printed ticket , only " bulk " generally appears on the receipt . They generally ca n't - or wo n't - sell the ticket straight to you , but will offer it through a travel agent ( including an online travel agent such as Travelocity or Expedia ) , or agencies such as the ones that advertise in Sunday newspaper travel sections . The agent adds their markup - keeping the margin slim so they 're not out-priced by published fares - and passes the remaining savings on to you . True consolidators do n't buy in quantity or ahead of time . Rather , they pull availability from their assigned class until the airline decides to close the window . Wikipedia 's <URL> on the same : An airline consolidator is a wholesaler of airline tickets . Airlines use consolidators as a means to reach out to more niche target audiences , and by offering discounts and fare flexibility that is relevant to the target group . Consolidators work through contracts with major carriers to sell at reduced prices
A UK entry clearance gives you ' formal ' permission to arrive/depart any time between its start and end dates . The form asked for your travel dates so that they can try to align the visa 's start date so that your time in the UK is maximized . Once the entry clearance has been issued , it 's ok to change your actual travel date . You can arrive at 12:01 AM on the start date of your visa or any time after that over the visa 's life time . Trying to arrive earlier than the start date is not allowed . And remember , you will still have a landing interview , and if your actual dates somehow contradict the premise of your visit , the IO may become worried . Also remember that you signed an agreement to advise the British issuing post of any significant changes in your circumstances . It 's down to you to determine if your change of plans is derived from a reportable event .
I live in Turkey and travel to Bulgaria regularly . ( ~ 20 times now ) . My general idea would be that this might be easier to find in Bulgaria as long as you were in one of the major cities . Turkey does n't seem to have this stuff just anywhere . That being said , it 's cheap-ish generic gear can be found at some major markets in Turkey , so I 'd be inclined to hit up a few stores and pick something up before I hit the road .
The answer is more or less given in two related <URL> <URL> . So in theory you should be able to travel to the UK with a recently expired passport . However , as it is mentioned in the comments , do expect issues . You might also be denied boarding , by either the ferry or carrier , since they have to bring you back when denied entry .
When your visa is issued , it will have a fixed start date . They will try to align the start date to the travel dates you gave in your application . This does not always happen , and if the start date they give is wrong for you then you can return your passport and request another start date . For planning purposes : Visas can be forward dated up to 90 days from the application date . The application date is the date they collected the fee . For your other question about arriving in the UK prior to your visa 's start date ... Hopefully the airline would prevent you from boarding , but in the event that you arrive in the UK outside of your visa dates , you would expect serious problems for abuse , up to and including <URL> . The situation is explicitly covered in <URL> . An Immigration Officer may cancel an entry clearance which is capable of having effect as leave to enter if the holder arrives in the United Kingdom before the day on which the entry clearance becomes effective or if the holder seeks to enter the United Kingdom for a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance .
" Usual " sales opening To complement other answers , indeed the sales start exactly 90 days in advance on most trains - TGV and Intercités as @audionuma quoted . Be careful though , some trains like regional ones have specific fare policies that include different starting dates , and that depends on each region ( e.g. I tried on the <URL> and I could add a ticket to the cart for a trip in 1 year ) . The price and availability does not vary on these regional trains so no need to book in advance though . However , some products sometimes have different policies on the starting date , in particular iDTGV , Ouigo , TGVs and Intercités . Unusual : TGVs and Intercités for school holidays For the TGVs and Intercités , there are three periods of the year when tickets may be sold earlier : Christmas , winter holidays ( usually in February ) and the summer . If you have a SNCF fidelity card or are a member of Capitaine Train , you shall receive emails warning you in advance of the sales opening for these popular periods . Here I quote an email received on March 28th that sales for the summer ( until August 30th , the last sunday of the summer holiday period ) opened on April 2nd : Pour vous remercier de votre fidélité , nous avons le plaisir de vous informer en avant-première de la prochaine ouverture des ventes de billets de train pour voyager cet été ! Tenez-vous prêt ( e ) ! Le 2 avril dès 6h , TGV et INTERCITÉS ouvrent les ventes pour vos voyages jusqu'au 30 août 2015 en France et quelques destinations en Europe ! I received similar emails for other periods , so in the end the advance booking was available as follows : on November 7th 2014 sales opened until March 9th 2015 on April 2nd 2015 sales opened until August 30th on October 16th 2014 sales opened from December 14th to February 6th These are indicative dates , if you plan on travelling for popular periods and want to take advantage of low prices , you should expect to book around these dates in future years . Unusual : iDTGV and Ouigo For Ouigo , a service intended for low-cost travel , and for iDTGV , another TGV service , the dates are different : on October 1st , 2014 , sales opened for Ouigo until July 6th , 2015 on September 16th , sales opened for iDTGV until March 29th , 2015 So in the end while the common rule is that sales are opened about 3 months in advance , this varies a lot depending on what train you want to take . If you want to travel during school holidays in particular , the sales opening may be earlier ( or later ) than the usual three months . If you want to be notified by email of these sales openings , you can signup for an account at <URL> or <URL> .
The train stops at the Niagara Falls NY train station , and everyone is inspected there . Your NEXUS card works as a passport card so you do n't need to carry your passport , but it wo n't save any time .
Ferry bookings work in the same way as flight tickets these days , the actual fare depends on the date and time of the booking , and changes in time . To check the fare that is of interest you need to go to the ferry company website , e.g. <URL> , enter the dates , press continue booking , enter the number of passengers and the size of the car , and then you will have all possible ferry times with the combined fare -- which you can book . Unfortunately you will have to do similar steps to check the prices of all the other means of transport . If I have to guess , I would say that the ferry only makes sense if you already own your vehicle . Otherwise , it will make more sense to get to Dublin on the public transport , and rent your car there .
No there is no catch . I am a three customer myself who benefits regularly from this perk . However I do believe you need to be a three customer for 1 full month before you can start benefiting from the ' Feel at Home ' offer although I can not find any sources regarding this so it may have expired . They do also say that it is designed for UK residents but I am not sure if they check this through ( not sure if you are a resident or not ) and it is not compatible with the ' Essentials plan ' The only thing I would be wary of is buying a SIM card from eBay . What benefit would you get over buying from three directly ? The link you posted has all the available information about the offer .
To answer my own question after my experience : You can collect Western Union payments in any " La Poste " that does Western Union . From my experience do the following : Write the Reference number in a clear and neat way on the cash receival form , from what happened to me the women mistyped the code and then said it was not her fault . Take more than just your Passport , have a drivers license there as backup incase they think you are a fraud . Have some French phrases prepared as the La Poste staff do not speak English very well and do not mess around , they will not go out their way to try and help you even if your a tourist . Prepare some French phrases and anticipate what they will say , for instance when they accused me of having the wrong Western Union reference number I said , " J'ai confirme sur la telephone avec Western Union " , roughly translates to that you confirmed the validity of the number . Go early , less people and queses and the staff will be less grumpy . I got my money in the end , but it was a stressfull experience . It really makes me appreciate the Royal Mail back in the UK . Hope this helps !
You should bring your passport , you do n't need anything in addition to this . Northern Ireland is part of the UK , so it 's a domestic trip with no " immigration " or similar . However , almost all airlines require passengers to have photo ID ( for their own commercial reasons - basically to ensure that person flying is the same as the person named on the ticket ) and a passport is the best form of photo ID for a non-European citizen to use .
Information about Russian trains schedules can be found at the <URL> : Train # 006Ь Moscow - Ulan-Bator departure at 21:35 every Wednesday , Thursday , arrival at 06:30 every Monday , Tuesday . Stop in Irkutsk at 23:25 every Sunday , Monday respectively . Train Fares <URL> departure at 17:15 every day , arrival at 06:10 . About buses from Ulan-Ude - there are some talks at local forums that buses are really go , every day , and during summer even more than one , but information is from 2009 year , and ca n't find any newer . Buses ( they said ) departure at 10-00 , and after 8-9 hours you are in Ulan-Bator , but ca n't find official link for it .
A good resource for checking train connections is <URL> . There are often good deals on Europe 's high speed trains , though you might only get a good deal to the south of France , not all the way into Italy . It will be hard to beat a budget flight . Obviously on journey time but also on cost . Book in time and your return journey can be as little as 40 pounds with Easyjet . Still , on <URL> you can see that , apparently , you can get a roundtrip by train from London to Italy for as little as 115 pounds . It 's a long journey , but it 's a good price .
You 'll be fine . While all Etihad flights to the US <URL> , it can be <URL> at Beijing . Alternatively , to speed up things a bit , she can likely log into Etihad 's site to manage her flight and enter the information there .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
In my month or so split between riding a motorcycle and taking trains throughout France in the past four years , here 's what I 've found : Takes magnetic strip + signature : Any place that takes credit card and has a live person collecting payment ( e.g. cashier , waiter , etc ) . This means just about all stores , restaurants , manned gasoline stations and manned ticket booths will accept mag + signature , as well as chip + pin . Does not take mag strip + signature : most gasoline stations after hours , bicycle rental kiosks , metro ticket kiosks and train ticket kiosks . Essentially any self-service payment place . Many of these do not take cash either . Pay particular attention to your gasoline level and time of day . I got stuck at gasoline stations after hours more than once . Locals could gas up with chip + pin cards . I did n't have one so I had to convince them to dip their card and take my cash in exchange . I was really glad I carried enough cash to get me to the next pillow . Another thing to watch out for is that , in the US , some banks have EMV cards that are chip + signature rather than chip + pin . It 's confusing because those chip + signature cards may have a PIN setup but that PIN does not work with the chip + pin system . Also , some web sites might mis-report them as chip + pin . As of May 2012 , this was the case with the British Airways Visa Signature EMV card . Before you get a US EMV card , interrogate the bank to make sure it 's chip + pin rather than chip + signature and that it can be used an unmanned kiosks in Europe that only accept chip + pin . You might be able to find legit chip + pin EMV cards in the US from some credit unions like the Andrews Federal Credit Union . Their <URL> is the one I ended up with . See also <URL> and <URL> for more good info on US banks and chip + pin .
end question
start question
Spouse with Danish residence permit 's proofs necessary to apply my tourist Schengen Visa ?
I got my Italy tourist visa approved today with Multiple entry option for 15 days for a 30 day period . I did include all the details about wife in the cover letter and included copies of her residence permit and deputation letter from her Indian employer , her flight tickets as well as additional the documents .
If your wife has an article 10 residence card , she does not need a visa if she travels with you . The UK 's residence card for the family member of an EEA national is an article 10 card . She is also entitled to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passports queue when she arrives in the Schengen area , even though she does n't have an EU , EEA , or Swiss passport , because she is a " person enjoying freedom of movement under Union law . " Your marriage certificate is enough to establish her right of free movement , but it is not by itself sufficient to exempt her from the visa requirement . This may account for the variation in the advice you 've received . The freedom of movement directive is <URL> . Beneficiaries of the right of freedom of movement are defined in article 3 . Paragraph 1 says : This Directive shall apply to all Union citizens who move to or reside in a Member State other than that of which they are a national , and to their family members as defined in point 2 of Article 2 who accompany or join them . Article 2 defines " family member " to mean , among other relations , the spouse . Article 5 , paragraph 2 says : Family members who are not nationals of a Member State shall only be required to have an entry visa in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 or , where appropriate , with national law . For the purposes of this Directive , possession of the valid residence card referred to in Article 10 shall exempt such family members from the visa requirement . ( Emphasis added . ) Article 10 , paragraph 1 says : The right of residence of family members of a Union citizen who are not nationals of a Member State shall be evidenced by the issuing of a document called ' Residence card of a family member of a Union citizen ' no later than six months from the date on which they submit the application . A certificate of application for the residence card shall be issued immediately . The entitlement to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passport lanes is in the <URL> . Article 2 , paragraph 5 : ' persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law ' means : ( a ) Union citizens within the meaning of Article 20 ( 1 ) TFEU , and third-country nationals who are members of the family of a Union citizen exercising his or her right to free movement to whom Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 21 ) applies ; ( Emphasis added ) Then , in article 10 , paragraph 2 : Persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law are entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) of Annex III . They may also use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part B1 ( ' visa not required ' ) and Part B2 ( ' all passports ' ) of Annex III . Thus , as long as she is traveling with you or joining you , your wife is a " person enjoying the right of free movement under Union law " and is therefore " entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) . "
Yes , actual visas are <URL> : As a foreigner , you are required by Thai Immigration Law to initially enter the Kingdom on a Visa if you wish to have a long-term stay in Thailand . This can be a visa ( tourist visa for 60 days or non-immigrant visa for 90 days ) issued by a Thai Embassy or Consulate outside of Thailand . Also note that the tourism visa is 60 days , although it can be extended once in the country to 90 days . If you want 90 days off the bat , you need to apply for a non-immigrant visa , and that in turn requires proof of business ( sponsored by Thai company ) , education ( study in Thailand ) or retirement/marriage to a Thai national . See the aptly named <URL> forums for the latest scoop on what this means in practice .
According to <URL> you do n't need a visa to transit through ( picked Austria as a transit point ) . TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of onward tickets in transit . * Note : TWOV is not possible when arriving from a non-Schengen Member State AND departing to a Schengen Member
Since the UK is not part of the Schengen Area , I do n't see how this would be necessary ( and why you would want to do that anyway ) . If the country where you are applying for a Schengen visa thinks that they are interested in whether you have applied for other visa before , then they have internal ways to do that . They do n't need to ask you . There is the Schengen Information System ( SIS ) which in part handles such queries automatically . The UK as an EU member state participates in the SIS and exchanges information with other EU states , even though it is not part of Schengen ( and therefore can not grant Schengen visa ) .
I do n't see why that should be a problem . US passport holders are allowed visa-free entry for up to 90 days , and when you exit South Africa that counts as the end of your trip . When you return to South Africa from travelling in the other countries you mention , the 90 day counter starts again - the 90 days is n't counted from the start of your trip to end . I do n't see any regulations on gaps that need to be left before a second entry can be made , so that should be fine too .
To visit a fair falls <URL> , if it is part of your job , when being sent over by a foreign company . Specially if you want to do negotiations or even sign contracts . So you would need a business visa . If the fair you are visiting is an industrial fair such as for machinery or trade , you will need a business visa . However , there is conflicting information for this . <URL> claims that as long as your trip fits into the time needed for a tourist visa , you can get one no matter what the purpose of your trip is . I would recommend contacting your local Russian embassy or consulate and simply ask them .
An expired residence permit certainly does not allow you to stay or travel in the Schengen area by itself . There are n't any systematic border checks so you would not generally meet any border guard at the border between Norway and Sweden or at the airport when flying back to Sweden . You might therefore easily get away with intra-Schengen travel without proper documentation . But it does not mean it would be legal or that you can not be asked about your status by the police in one country or the other ( even without traveling , incidentally ) . Furthermore , some airlines wo n't let you board without an appropriate visa ( Ryanair is one airline that is notorious for that , see previous questions like <URL> ) and many will at least check your ID so you would expose yourself to some scrutiny in any case . EDIT : Your citizenship makes your situation much easier . You can legally travel , leave and enter the Schengen area as a visitor for up to 90 days and this short-stay does <URL> . Legally speaking , you could also stay in Sweden on that basis alone ( people who can not stay in the Schengen area without a visa might have other ways to get a temporary permit but as far as I know you do n't need one and the advice you received about staying in Sweden would only become relevant if the process took more than three months ) . Do take the expired work permit with you to document the fact that you have n't been overstaying ( your last entry stamp is presumably much older than 90 days ) , show your passport if you are asked for ID ( I would not volunteer a confusing expired document unless it 's needed ) and you should be fine . If you left the Schengen area , I guess you could theoretically be refused entry when coming back but travel within the area should not be a problem at all , even if there is in fact a border check somewhere .
You will need to file separate DS-160 applications for your spouse , but the web site will make this a little easier for you . Once you complete your application , on the " Thank You " page there will be an option to create another application for your family member . When you choose this , it will automatically import some of the information from your form onto the next form , and so it will take less time to complete the second application . A further explanation is in the <URL> : When you select " Email Confirmation " on your Confirmation Page , you will be directed to a " Thank You " page . On the " Thank You " page you will see an option to create a family or group application . When you select this option , certain information from your application , such as destination , will automatically be imported to and displayed on a new application . Please note that if you use this option you must create an individual application for each family member or for each individual within the group . If one of the dependents has a different surname or nationality , for example , you can alter that data before submitting the application .
There is a question exactly like yours on <URL> . The gist of the answers is : Noone cares . Taxis do n't have car seats to offer and you 're not required to have them to travel with kids , so your wife holding your 3 month old will be just fine . Normally most countries ( and states ) exempt taxis from child safety seat requirements . <URL> <URL>
I assume you have Schengen Visa Type ( C ) , which is valid for short stay for : Tourist Business You can use your visa as a tourist , there are no separate Schengen visas for business and tourists .
In the Schengen area , the relevant distinction is between flights to non-Schengen destinations and flights to Schengen destinations . If you have two stops in the area , your journey includes a flight between Schengen destinations and you will need to go through the " external border " checkpoint to catch that flight . There will be no passport check at the second airport and once you have crossed the border at the first airport , there is nothing stopping you from leaving , which is why transit privileges do not apply . Whether the next destination is in the same country or in another Schengen country does not make a difference and your UK visa and all the other rules and regulations regarding transit are not relevant in this situation either . As an Indian citizen , it means that you do need a type C Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . See also <URL> for a full explanation of the rules .
Legally speaking , you need a valid passport or equivalent travel document to cross any border of a Schengen state , whether it 's an inner or outer border of the Schengen area . I ca n't find a list of equivalent travel documents for France , but <URL> only lists " exotic " alternatives -- documents for refugees , for seafarers , etc. ( Nationals of an EU country and a few others need only an identity card ) . In practice , borders inside the Schengen area are not equipped for systematic checks and there is a high likelihood that you 'll just drive through without even noticing that you 've passed the border . There are ( or used to be ) occasional checks for drug smuggling on the road from the Netherlands to France ; I doubt that it 's a problem if all you can show is a driving license . It 's better if you have your residence permit and a photocopy of your passport -- with these documents , it would take exceptional to get into trouble . As far as I know , there is no direct penalty for not carrying an identity document in France . ( I know that for nationals ; I think it 's also true for non-nationals . ) There is an obligation that you must be able to prove your identity upon request ( technically , the request has to be justified , but in practice a police officer can always find a pretext ) . As a non-national , you 'd also have to prove your right to be there , as otherwise you could be detained and expelled . Again , with a proof of identity such as a driving license , plus a copy of your passport and residence permit , you are very unlikely to get into trouble . The one thing you can not reliably do without a passport is fly . All commercial airlines require a passport ( or identity card ) , even for Schengen internal flights . They often do n't check , but if they do , they 're likely to not let you board the flight if you do n't have documentation that 's acceptable to them .
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
In my experience , travel insurance usually covers you until the date of your planned return home , or the actual date when you return home , whichever is later . This generally only applies if your delay is caused by something out of your control that is covered by your policy . So , if you fall ill on the last day of your trip and have to be taken to hospital , your travel insurance should also cover the time you have been delayed . After all , that 's what you bought it for . I can not recommend strongly enough that you read the fine print for your insurance policy so that you understand what it does and does not cover . You should make sure your insurance end date is the date when you plan to actually step back into the front door of your house . Not , as you imply , the date when your flight departs from Europe .
Since you are a citizen of the European Union you do not need a visa to travel to any other EU country . UK is not part of the Schengen Area , so you only need a passport ( or national identity card ) to cross the border and that 's it . <URL> : Individuals from the following countries can enter the Schengen Area , Bulgaria , [ 3 ] Cyprus , [ 4 ] and Romania [ 5 ] without a visa : As of right , using a passport or national identity card - Citizens of European Union member states and their special territories
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
Have a look at <URL> . You apply for visa online , and then physically get it by reporting to a consular service within 3 days of entering the country ( you get an entry permit sent to your email which you use to actually enter ) . I would not advise trying to obtain visa/entry at the border , unless you are exempt from visa by Abkhazia . Also take note of the following important info : Citizens of the following countries must have double entry or multiple Russian visas to come to Abkhazia ( it is a mandatory requirement , since the Russian Embassy in Abkhazia will not issue transit visas to the citizens of these countries ) : Algeria Angola Afghanistan Bangladesh Vietnam India Iraq Iran PRC DPRK ( North Korea ) Nepal Nigeria Pakistan Rwanda Syria Somalia Chad Sri Lanka Ethiopia See more at : <URL> and : NOTE ! When visiting Abkhazia through the territory of the Russian Federation you must receive at least a double entry Russian visa ( the first time you enter Russia on the way to Abkhazia and the second time you visit Russia on your way from Abkhazia back to your home country ) . Foreign citizens are required to have a double entry or multiple visa of the Russian Federation . See more at : <URL>
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
end question
start question
Where can you get good quality chocolates in Malaysia ?
<URL> tastes good to me , especially their Tiramisu line . I bought it in Thailand , but it 's made in Malaysia , so it should be widely available .
There 's a couple of restaurants that sometimes have live gypsy music . If you got in touch with them you should be able to find out if they have any bands playing while your friends are in town ( assuming this is n't too late ) . <URL> sometimes has them <URL> . Locanta Jaristea sometimes has <URL> .
" The Grotto " on the Bruce Peninsula ( Georgian Bay , Ontario , Canada ) could be a good choice . The water 's always cold ( though it can be plenty hot outside ) , but if you take appropriate precautions it should otherwise match your criteria . It 's pretty cool : You can actually swim through the hole in the bottom out into the bay . There are a lot of cool cliffs and trails in the area , it definitely makes for a good vacation . If you 're interested in more caves and more complex caves , this might not be the place , although there are a few other bayside caves I 've seen in the area and definitely more away from the water .
Public system Any nurse can do that also in Portugal . Going to a " centro de saúde " is a good choice . These are part of the national health system . In principle you do n't need an appointment . Just go there and explain the reason . That is so fast and simple that they may solve it immediately . Be prepared and take some " patience " with you though . The system usually works well but you can always get some " old school " public servant . Being a foreigner you will most likely be very well treated . Portuguese in general are very pleasant , and like foreign visitors , but be prepared for that 0.1 % chance . You might need to wait or return another day if it 's crowded . It 's hard to tell since that varies a lot in geographical area and time of the year . In any case you can always call first to <URL> ( 808 24 24 24 ) . This is a phone line from the national helth system to give advice about daily health problems ( not urgency , that is 112 ) . They will be able to help , and I would probably do this first . They can even point you to the nearest " centro de saúde " Private options There are also many private nurses / offices . It should n't be hard to find one . And a simple treatment/thing should be very cheap . You can look in yellow pages for nurses : <URL> You can also ask in a pharmacy where you can do it . There are many and often offer more services than just selling drugs ( they often have specialized personnel ) . They might actually remove stitches or point you in the right direction . I would definitely visit one to know . If they 're not too busy I would n't be surprised that they helped you , even if they do n't offer the service by default . And without any promise , I would n't even be surprised if they did n't charge for such a thing .
Do n't book before you get there . The prices quoted by silent1mezzo are staggeringly expensive , compared to what you can get once you 're actually in Peru . Most 5day tours should run for less than $ 200USD . The first step is to get to Cusco . You can fly there ( landing there is pretty spectacular ) or you can get a cheap bus from pretty much anywhere else in the country . Some people have problems with the altitude in Cusco , so planning a couple of days for acclimatisation and exploring is a good idea . There are some short walks to ruins near the city that will help . There are probably hundreds of tour operators in Cusco ( <URL> that have an online presence , there are many more without one ) that run hiking tours to Machu Picchu . Ask around , or at your hotel/hostel for tour company recommendations as they 're likely to change . If you want to do the Inca Trail , it is recommended that you book well in advance ( months ) , as this is so popular . Because of the popularity it is also very well trafficked and apparently not very charming or enjoyable as a hike ( I did n't do it , so this is just hearsay ) . Basically , I would prepare for there to be whinging tourists to be all about you . There are many hiking alternatives to the Inca Trail which also end up at Machu Picchu . These can all be booked in and leave from Cusco at less than a week 's notice . Salkantay : 5days/4nights , goes high up into the mountains ( 4600m ) and past an unclimbed , snow-capped mountain called Salkantay . Some steep sections . Very spectacular . Choquequirao : A longer trek ( 9 days ) which includes cultural immersion as well as spectacular scenery . Involves 2 days of trekking back from Choquequirao on the same path , so there are some repeated views . Cordillera Huayhuash ( leaves from Huaraz ) : A comparatively quiet route offering solitude and scenery , takes one of two routes near the Cordillera Blanca mountains . Lares : 4days/3nights , Takes in the Quechuan lifestyle . Famous for the textile villages encountered along the way . Crosses two peaks and takes in some hot springs and lakes . Jungle Treks : Most of these involve a short walk , some downhill on-road mountain biking and a bus to Machu Picchu . Not highly recommended if you like hiking . DIY hike : Get to Aguas Calientes by train and continue up to Machu Picchu either by bus or by hiking the the five-mile trail . If you get there at dawn as it opens , your views wo n't be spoiled by the throngs of tourists that arrive later in the day . I should mention that most of these treks will be fully inclusive of include a tent and mat , food , and guide . Some provide a mule to carry your gear either all the way , or part-way with you . I found this against the spirit of hiking and chose to carry my own pack . Other tips : You can befriend your guides by offering to carry some of the food they are lugging for the group ( they will likely refuse , but the gesture is appreciated ) Ask questions of your guide - I found they were not very talkative about the history or scenery but when prompted had quite a bit of knowledge to share Always walk on the high side of mules so you do n't get bumped off a mountain It gets very cold at night at those altitudes , bring a good sleeping bag The sun can be very intense during the day at altitude , bring sunscreen .
Earthquakes are notoriously hard to predict , for the US they are working on this an <URL> which <URL> the recent earthquake . Giving about ten seconds warning . Which I think may be less than you were looking for ... In general if you 're in an earthquake zone there 's always a ( remote ) chance of a sudden quake . There are minor earthquakes all the time , a sequence of minor earthquakes does not make the ' big one ' more likely . Arguably , smaller quakes relieve pressure and could make big quakes less common , but they could also move things in such a way that it does cause a bigger quake . People have been studying this for years and the best we 've got is ten seconds warning ... There are a few things you can do -- first find out if you 're in an earthquake zone , check the local government for wherever you are or here 's a <URL> of them . Second , know <URL> . Finally know that earthquakes are pretty scary and can be dangerous depending what you 're doing ( i.e. driving over a bridge ) but places that are in earthquake zones are designed to handle even relatively big quakes . Quakes on the scale of the Japanese one a few years ago are incredibly rare and honestly not really worth worrying about ( if it happens , it happens ) . You can track recent earthquakes on <URL> and , yes , there are apps for that -- here 's the <URL> . One thing you can watch for is earthquake caused tsunamis , ( or any tsunamis ) . These are ( mostly ) predictable , often more dangerous than the earthquake , and getting a warning will give you time to take action . Here 's the <URL> and there are apps for that as well but I 've no experience of them so I do n't want to recommend one at random . There is a page at <URL> that looks like it covers a lot of the above . I will say once again , earthquakes and other geological events are very hard to predict . Warnings often err on the side of caution , while some events still take everyone completely by surprise . It 's one of those things you should know how to handle if it happens , and then try and not worry about it to much . I say this as someone that lives less than half a kilometer away from a major fault-line . Quick Edit : The question was changed after I answered to be California specific , I 'm not going to trim the answer just to that since I think it 's generic enough to be applicable . The links I gave are still useful but for specific stuff consider the <URL> and the Southern California Earthquake Center ( <URL> ) . Edit 2 ( three months later ) : I just wanted to edit this to add a link to a upcoming tool called <URL> . It looks to have grown out of ShakeAlert which is linked in the other answer and offers personal and industrial early earthquake warning solutions ( it 's not clear from the site how much warning they can give ) .
In Germany , the Zoos of <URL> and <URL> have Dolphin exhibits/shows ( another one in [ Münster ] will be shut down this fall ) . The one in Nürnberg is probably closest to you and also seems to be the largest . But note that there 's considerable controversity about whether keeping Dolphins in indoor pools constitutes animal abuse , given that even the largest pools are tiny in comparison with their natural movement habits .
This year I travelled from London to Mongolia overland . There was a period from leaving Saint Petersburg , Russia to reaching Khiva , Uzbekistan - where for 10 days , I did not hear any native English . Two people had broken English , that was it . So no , it will NOT get you by wherever you are in the world . However , you can still get by - with hand signals , learning a few key words , and even resorting to <URL> to make yourself understood . Generally in big cities in most countries there will be someone around who speaks a few words of English , at the least . Not always . Even at embassies in some Central Asian countries , I had no English spoken to me . Going to the hospital at Iguazu Falls - arguably one of the top tourist spots in South America , and there was zero English - that was lots of fun with my limited dictionary and wild gesticulating ! So to answer your question about whether you can get around with just English - no , English will not get you everywhere , but there are other forms of expression/communication that will . As for languages , Spanish ( South America ) , French ( lots of the world and Africa ) , Russian for all ex-Soviet states , and Mandarin , and you 've got a ton of the world covered .
Ulcinj county has the best beaches in Montenegro . The good beaches are several km outside the city towards the Albanian border . Local transport should be frequent during the day , and you can stay either at the beach or in the Ulcinj city . Velika Plaza ( Large Beach ) is 10km long , uncrowded with nice sand and a long shallow part . Ada Bojana is an island at a river estuary , the beach is clothing-optional , has some nice waves . Ulcinj also has an old town on a steep hill ( an Ottoman fortress , different than Venetian ones elsewhere ) . Accommodation prices are slightly better than elsewhere . Budva and Bay of Kotor have great scenery , old towns and some nightlife . Unfortunately , the beaches are crowded and rather unimpressive ( relatively small , not much sand , mostly uncomfortable pebbles , sharp and deep drop-off ) . If you 're traveling by bus , you can go to Kotor first , spend a few hours there ( perhaps take a tour of the bay and the fortress ) , and then take a local bus down to Ulcinj ( ~ 2-3h bus ride ) .
Yes , but it depends on 2 things : Your destination country law , and your home country law . Here is an example : Indonesian couples wants to get married in Singapore . The following rules apply : They have to apply their notice of Marriage at <URL> At least one of them has to be physically present within Singapore for a minimum of 15 days before the date of notice of marriage . Both of them should not have married before and each of them have to bring one witness . Full details can be found at <URL> After they married in Singapore , the marriage itself is legal ( almost ) worldwide , however Indonesian government does not accept the marriage certificate as legal document . In the order to make it legal , the couple has to get a translation of their ROM certificate and reference letter in Singapore 's Indonesian Embassy , and within 1 year they should report to Indonesian Civil Office back in Indonesia ( You ca n't just report in Indonesian Embassy ) Trivia : A lot of Indonesian married in Singapore before 2009 because Indonesian law did not allow different-religion marriage , and then reported their marriage back in Indonesia .
I 'm not sure how valid a paper UK license is in Australia . I believe it would be up to interpretation . If you rent a car , you might have to convince them that your paper license is indeed an authorised version of your real driver 's license . It might be a good idea to call up the rental car company and ask beforehand . Road rules and regulations are governed on the state level . Each state has its own rules regarding the use of foreign drivers licenses . Some states require an International License as well . The <URL> site summarises this well .
Getting hotel upgrades is indeed like getting flight upgrades -- the odds are low , and stay low even if you try to game the system , but occasionally you win . I 'm also assuming that you have no elite status with the hotel/chain , since that 's a whole different ballgame , although it is also by far the best way to get upgrades . First of all , it 's important to understand that there are " upgrades " and then there are upgrades . A slightly larger room or a room facing the park instead of the parking lot is a small upgrade and these are often handed out like candy , but putting you in an executive floor room with lounge access , buffet breakfast and complimentary minibar involves real additional cost to the hotel , and these " real " upgrades will be harder to score . You can usually tell the levels with careful reading of the room descriptions on the hotel website : eg . the <URL> has something like 20 room types , but " Superior " , " Deluxe " and " Premium " are all exactly the 32 sq. m. same room , just facing in different directions . The " Club " rooms are the same room again with lounge access , and it 's only " Executive Suite " ( 72 sq. m. ) and above that are genuinely different . So , here 's some ideas . Short stays are more likely to get upgrades . You might get the grand suite for a night if nobody 's using it , but you 're extremely unlikely to get it for a month . Ask nicely on check-in if you could have a room facing the Eiffel Tower ( or whatever ) . If it 's a small upgrade ( see above ) , you just might get it ; if it 's a big upgrade and they 've got a bunch free , you might be offered a discounted upgrade . When booking , request something restrictive but not obnoxious : eg . " high floor " or " away from elevators " . On check-in , ask if they can fulfill your request . If they ca n't find a standard room that fits , they just might bump you up . If something is genuinely broken in your room and you complain about it , you may well get shifted to a nicer room . I once ended up in the presidential suite because it was the only room they had left with functional internet ! ( Was n't a particularly nice hotel and I was staying with my boss on a business trip , but hey , first-world problems ... ) A high-risk , high-reward tactic is to simply check in late ; if all the standard rooms are gone , they 'll bump you up . Of course , if you check in too late , then all the rooms may be gone and you 'll probably end up at the Motel 6 instead ... and if you do get a nice room , it 's already late so you wo n't have much time to enjoy it !
I ended up getting a typhoid shot at the Zagreb city-run Andrija Stampar Teaching Institute of Public Health ( Croatian : Zavod za javno zdravstvo " Dr. Andrija Štampar " , <URL> ) . The address is <URL> . Look for the signs for " epidemiologija " , just to the left inside the main entrance . The medical staff spoke good English , the cost was around $ 30 ( April 2016 ) , and I was in and out in about 20 minutes .
The carnet comes as 10 separate tickets and nothing stops you from sharing with others .
The exact rules will actually vary slightly depending on the city pairs . On the Malaysia Airlines website , on the Review Your Itinerary and Price page there 's a small link at the top for View Fare Rules . You can use that to check exactly what the rules would be for an given ticket you were thinking of buying As a general rule though , mhbasic is the least flexible , then mhsmart , then mhflex . Looking at a random mhbasic fare , I see things in the fare rules like : changes any time - charge gbp 100.00 for reissue/revalidation changes ticket reissue - rebooking / rerouting after ticketing - the above charge plus fare difference ticket is non-refundable in case of cancel/refund So for that one , you can make changes to it for a # 100 fee plus any extra fare costs at the time of the change , but you ca n't have any money back if you cancel . . Then looking at a random mhflex fare , I see things in the fare rules like : changes ticket reissue - rebooking / rerouting after ticketing permitted with no fees plus fare difference cancellations permitted for cancel/refund . admin fee applies . after departure - cancellations permitted for cancel/refund . note - deduct the applicable one way fare in same or higher rbd and cancellation fee - if any - and refund the balance if any . So , on that particular ticket , the mhflex ticket is refundable before departure for a small fee , and after departure less the cost of a one-way for what you 've already used ( which may mean there 's nothing to refund ) . There is no universal answer , it 'll depend on the city pairs , but mhflex is likely to be the one you need for full flexibility and near-refundable-ness . Check the fare rules for the full details / speak to a travel agent who can understand them and explain them to you !
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
The <URL> is pretty central and offers a view from 168.60 m over the city . Just make sure you go there when it 's clear , and not foggy/rainy outside .
Answering my own question because this took a lot of legwork : We found precisely two insurers who cover travel beyond 26 weeks . ( Only for uncomplicated births : no multiples ( twins ) , no IVF . ) <URL> offers coverage up to 36 weeks in some countries . However , if you 're based in Australia , <URL> , and that requires an expensive " Pregnancy Extension Option " that pushed the insurance price to over $ 800 for 5 weeks ( ! ) . <URL> offers cover <URL> as a part of their standard policy , and will even provide a letter on request stating so ( handy for those US immigration authorities ) . They 're happy to insure residents of any country for travel to virtually any country , and while not cheap , at 323 euros the cost was still about half of what Columbus wanted . No prizes for guessing which one we went with ! Update : In the end , neither check-in nor US immigration noticed my wife is pregnant , and the birth occurred outside the US as well . So we never had to " test out " the insurance .
For incoming items ( including most of the major meteor streams ) coming from the North to Easterly direction , and not too bad for West of North as well ( not so good for from the South ) East the utterly marvellous location to beat most others is Glover park above the cliffs to the East of St Heliers Bay . You may be able to drive up Waitara Rd and Park - but large numbers of other cars may wish to dance with you , and a short walk from nearby is often wise . You can walk up the road , but a wander through Glover Park in the dark adds to the mystique . You get to look into an almost completely dark horizon . Some lights on Waiheke . A lighthouse sweep bright but far off on Tiritiri Matangi . Great barrier &amp; Coromandel maybe a few dim gleams . Rangitoto dark . I 've viewed the Perseids there and some others there . For meteor streams that come from a radiant and then appear to travel in all directions from it you want as dark a sky as possible over as much of the ' Welkin ' as you can find . This location qualifies as you are on the coastal edge of the city with almost zero immediate civilisation and nothing very makor this side of South America . Access : You can come from Greenland and follow your GPS/Google-maps nose - Remuera Rd , St Johns Rd , St Heliers Bay Rd , ... OR Go along the waterfront - a nice drive even at 3am - to St Heliers and follow Glover Road up from the far end of the bay . If you want a guide / add on and there is a major shower happening , let me know ... :-) . <URL> The reason it is so good can be seen in the larger scale map below . East Coast Bays almost certainly offer some good spots . Kennedy Park above Castor Bay is probably excellent . Shakespeare Regional Park at the end of Whangaparaoa is also probably excellent - but I do n't know what their rules are for night time visiting . And Fletcher 's Bay at the far tip of the Coromandel Peninsular is a special place . It will take you a day to drive there , the final road in is still gravelled and the drop offs are frightening . Dark as dark it will be . And ( over 40 years ago ) that 's where I met my wife :-) . <URL> Star gazing sites : chx 's top NZ sites list is interesting . All but one are in the South Island . I do n't know why Ngongotaha should be better than any number of other NI locations , but , having had it noted , I 'll have to find out why . The point about Glover Park is not it 's " ordinary " stars alone but how good it is for a wide dark view for meteorites . I was utterly stunned by it the first time I visited . After driving through the very well lit city , which I was well used to , to come on this sudden vast Oasis of darkness is amazing . Good for random meteorites and satellites at any time . Concern was expressed re low angle viewing of the " Lyrids " this week . If I 'd known that this was what it was about the answer could have accommodated it . ( Lyrids viewing information here ] ( <URL> As will be seen - information is given starting at 5 degrees above the horizon and then rising to 20 degrees + over the next 4 hours . The map below shows distance from site in 5km steps . The table shows height an obstacle would need to be to block a 5 degree view . Rangitoto , 5 km away manages about 260 m when 434m is needed and nothing else comes closer . A much better site would be hard to imagine . Draggable whole of New Zealand topographical map centred on Rangitoto <URL> Index <URL>
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
end question
start question
What can be best way to reach Cambridge from Heathrow Terminal 3 ?
The cheapest ( and simplest ) way would be to use National Express coaches ( i.e. bus ) that goes direct from Heathrow central bus station ( 5 minute walk from terminal 3 ) to Cambridge . Tickets start from about # 15 , depending on the day/time and how long in advance you book . I just checked their website - the first bus in the morning leaves Heathrow at 5 am and the last one at 11:59 pm ( although I would n't recommend this one , as it 's not a direct one and you 'll spend almost two hours in Luton airport when changing to another bus ) . The last direct one leaves at 11:35 pm . Hence at 10 pm you should be fine . The journey takes 2 hours 20 minutes . Check for yourself : <URL> Another option is train , but it 's more expensive and there are no direct trains - and it 's not faster .
There are health concerns , mostly related to the fact that they can carry infection on their feet and mouth parts as they will walk through all sorts of substances you would not want in your mouth , so cleaning food preparation or serving surfaces is recommended . They like dark crevices - especially in kitchens , where food could fall in cracks or under cupboards - and where there is ample food they will multiply incredibly fast . Turning on lights causes them to scatter for shelter . If your luggage is closed they are n't likely to actively try to get into it , and while it is always a good idea to shake out boots in hotter climates , they are n't like scorpions or other active predators . They are endemic in many parts of the world , but for most people the worst that happens is that you step on one in the morning , which does leave a very nasty mess on your bare feet , a bad smell , and an urge to wash :-) tl ; dr - use a disinfectant for surfaces , turn on lights a few seconds before getting out of bed or going into a room to give them a chance to run back under appliances , and generally learn to ignore them . ( I find them disgusting , and am glad they do n't really exist in Scotland - they make my skin crawl )
18 hrs is doable . Go to Bhubaneswar to catch a flight to New Delhi . From Sambalpur there is train at 0635 hours to Bhubaneswar , takes around 4 hours and 30 minutes . Below is a list of them . It is a busy route , but you will be able to get a reservation easily . Go to <URL> and check the schedules or reserve a ticket . There are regular flights from Bhubaneswar to New Delhi , so flights will not be a problem . To check flights availability use <URL> or <URL> . Or if you do n't like trains , there are night buses which run very frequently from Sambalpur to Bhubaneswar . Check out <URL> . Else you can also go down to the bus station or to any of the agents selling bus tickets , but take a local with you who knows the language ( it is a very distinct version of Oriya which they speak there ) . Hindi will be fine but if somebody knows the local language it will be much better . Or you will be fleeced mercilessly . Pay a little more and take the Volvo bus , if available , as the road might get a bit bumpy at some places but the major part is fine .
Short answer : Nothing out of the usual . The days of bandits roaming the mountains seem to be long gone . According the <URL> , the main risks are pickpocketing and theft from cars , the same as in <URL> and the <URL> ( and pretty much anywhere in Europe ) . Landmines were laid on the Kosovo-Albania border in the 1990s , but <URL> they were all cleared out by 2006 .
These should solve your problem : <URL> <URL> <URL> DHL and UPS can pick up your package from your apartment . Call the number listed in the links above to arrange a pick up .
All ATMs in the Thai Bank Pool charge the 200 baht fee * , the two exceptions are Citibank ( only in Bangkok ) and AEON who charge 150 baht ( neither are technically banks which is why they are outside the pool ) . A traveler really needs to pull the max amount of baht allowed to keep the fee more minimal in terms of percentages . Most machines limit you to 20 notes , or 20,000 baht , though I heard a couple of bank chains now have new machines that will dispense 30 notes . You can go inside the banks and get a Visa or MasterCard cash advance . Some banks like Bangkok Bank do it without any fees , some others add a 2 or 3 % surcharge . But you need to use a Visa or MC debit card , not credit card , because credit cards charge you interest from the moment you get the advance , there is no 30 day grace period as you get on purchases . You also need to ask for an amount greater than the ATM allows or the teller will point you to the ATM machine outside . Travelers checks carry fees to exchange as well so are n't really any cheaper , plus only a few brands are accepted these days because too many counterfeits were circulating . Cash is , of course , the best in terms of no fees , but adds the worry for some folks about carrying that much cash around . With cash you need to make sure you have crisp new notes , banks are finicky about taking old tattered notes . You also need to consider that some currencies like the US Dollar , the rate you get depends on the denomination of the note , ie : you get a better exchange rate using $ 100 bills , than using $ 10 bills . * The ATM fee is scheduled to increase to 250 baht in August 2016
While the city is only 15 minutes drive from the airport at times , given your narrow window , it would make more sense for your friend to come to the airport to meet you . Indeed , <URL> suggests that in busy periods , it can even take up to an hour , which you do n't want if you 're stressing about getting back to your flight ! Assuming your bags are checked through to your final destination , all you need to worry about then is yourself , carry-on and passport/visa situation . For your carry-on and self , remember that you 'll still need to go out through passport control , and get back in through customs , security and passport control . This is common enough for a few hours , I 've done it in several airports where I had a longish layover - I wanted to check out the city . Then your passport/visa - as long as you 're just visiting ( as you suggest ) then <URL> . So it should be a case of zipping through passport control , meeting your friend , and have some time to enjoy the airport , making sure to allow yourself enough time to get back through to your plane . Enjoy !
Unfortunately , ca n't provide any english-language links . Try to contact <URL> , they have amazing pack of offers , such as tour to the Lake Khövsgöl on horse or even hunting ! You 'll stay in lovely houses like this , they have sattelite TV there and traditional Mongolian furniture :
The best cheaper way I 've found to get from Fez to Algiers is flying via Barcelona . As of April 2016 , Fez - Barcelona - Fez is around $ 35-50 on Ryanair , and Barcelona - Algiers - Barcelona is around $ 110 on Vueling , for a total price of $ 150 ( round trip ) .
No , there is no need to pass through immigration control in this circumstance . Simply follow the purple signs to the new terminal . The inter-terminal bus system is before immigration control . See also : <URL> . If you are flying BA then you are in Terminal 5 for both flights , and there will be no need to use the buses .
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
When they come out of the T3 baggage collection area into the main T3 arrivals area , directly in front of them in the centre of the floor will be a large " Information " booth . To the right of that , there 's a large sign that says " Meeting Point " . In the absence of any other information , it would be the logical place to meet . The signs are yellow with a dark circle and four inward pointing arrows . They are either stand-up as shown in the indicative photo , or they hang from the ceiling . For your other question : there is a single exit from the baggage claim area . It 's on the ground floor of T3 . And yes , you could wait for them at this exit also . Last tip : if you are taking the tube , have a backup plan in case there 's a signal failure enroute ...
The only ferry to Iceland is the weekly ferry from Denmark . It takes a while and you spend two nights aboard each way ( and incidentally get the opportunity to visit the Faeroe Islands along the way ) . The ferry is not guaranteed to run during winter ( it mostly carries cargo during the winter months , if there is cargo going to Iceland you can book a trip , but only shortly before departure ) . The ferry is also rather expensive , so for a short trip ( anything under a week certainly ) you would likely find it cheaper to fly and then rent a car . This will also save you 4 days at sea , which would eat into any shorter trip .
The <URL> has some of information in English as well . Unfortunately the page about <URL> is only available in German ( I 'll include the information below ) . Going by car is pretty much impossible . Taxis are of course a different matter and perhaps an option to you . But fortunately , the festival ground is very central and easily reachable via public transportation . The three closest stations ( which are all equipped with elevators ) are : The Hackerbrücke station on the S-Bahn - requires some walking and includes stairs , so not good for you The Goetheplatz station on the subway lines U3 and U6 - again some walking , but on level ground . The Theresienwiese station on the subway lines U4 and U5 - this opens right on the festival grounds ( and thus tends to be very crowded ) - except the elevator is at the opposite end of the station , so it 's about 200m distance . Finding the way is generally easy - just follow the crowds . On the festival itself , accessibility should not be a problem , except of course most rides . But the big ferris wheel can be used with a wheelchair . The beer tents are accessible , and there are at least 20 wheelchair-appropriate seats in each tent , but reserved for wheelchair users only until 14:00 on weekdays and till 17:00 on Saturday , Sunday and holidays ( for the time afterwards you can get a personal reservation , which is really advisable at all times ) . Note that the beer tents are often extremely crowded and hard to get into , especially on weekends and in the evenings . On rainy saturdays , the tents will be full and closed before noon , as people queue up to get in at 10 am and stay until the end at 11 pm . I 'm not sure how severe the situation with the wheelchair places is , but unless the " atmosphere " of 10,000 very drunk people dancing and chanting to a mix of folk and pop tunes is the main attraction to you , I 'd suggest visiting the tents on weekdays at noon , when they 're not crowded and you can have a peaceful lunch . There are wheelchair-appropriate toilets in the larger beer tents , the subway station Theresienwiese and a service center near that station . As for the general atmosphere , it 's very relaxed and friendly . But due to the copious amounts of alcohol that are consumed , brawls do sometimes occur despite the presence of police and security personnel , and they can get pretty nasty when 1 liter glass steins are everywhere . The <URL> : 6.4 million visitors 119 cases of aggravated assault ( the glass steins ) 4 cases of rape 438 cases of theft
<URL> you can find a map of bike-allowed street . Probably it will be longer but there is a possibility to go to Punta Sabbioni by using only the bike . Hope it can help !
By bus , the easiest is going to be a stop in La Paz , Bolivia . You have two options from Puno . The direct - through the border and round the south side of Lake Titicaca to La Paz . It does n't take that long - about 5 hours from memory , although I 've heard it can take 8 . Option B is the ferry through to Copacobana . It 's meant to be quite the experience , but takes longer . You 'll also likely have to change buses in Copacobana , so be prepared to lose your good seats , if you have any . From La Paz , it 's 12-15 hours by bus to the town of Uyuni . Be aware - it can be FREEZING at night on the bus , especially during winter . Pack warm . I was in a car for various reasons , was given a blanket , was n't sure why until a few minutes into the drive - was very thankful for it ! Some routes are direct from La Paz , others will go through Oruro , and you 'll need to change buses there . In terms of the border , it was one of the more fun ones that I remember . Do n't worry about it being open - the bus from Puno wo n't leave if it 's not . In terms of safety , it was a little confusing but just follow everyone else on the bus and someone will wave you into a queue , a room , and so on . And make sure you know what your bus looks like - the driver may well move it down to the other side of the border without you realising :)
There 's really only one choice : the Karakorum Highway . Regular buses travel between last Pakistani town on the highway , Sust , and Kashgar . The only caveat is that the highway is subject to closure during the cold season , so it is best to arrange for travel before November . Sust is not a particularly nice place , so if possible try and get tickets before showing up there . If you have to wait a few days before the bus goes , however , just head back down the highway to Passu or Karimabad , which are very nice . Getting to Sust is easy since the Karakorum plunges down through the mountains to the Punjab , where Rawalpindi and Islamabad are located , so you can start your journey from there by tavelling to Gilgit , which is the largest town in the Northern Areas and a transportation hub . If you are in the Hunza , you 'll also want to make for Gilgit , unless you can find transportation directly to Karimabad . Wherever you find yourself on the highway , there are lots of buses ( further south ) and minibuses ( further north ) travelling in both directions . Pre-earthquake , it was possible ( if technically forbidden ) to enter Azad Kashmir and visit Muzaffarabad , but this is strictly optional . A note about the bus between Sust and Kashgar : it 's a two-day ride and you 'll be put in a hotel ( likely unheated ) for a night in Tashkurgan after passing through Chinese customs . The hotel price should be included in the bus ticket , but you might want to double check that . There 's also a " park fee " you have to pay to travel through the last bit of Pakistan . It 's very modest .
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
end question
start question
Is it possible to get a visa for Kaliningrad in the neighboring countries ?
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
Difficult . You 're probably going to want to spend a night . In which case you could take a car . IF you wanted to take the train , the service is the <URL> . However , the <URL> , and you wo n't reach Bundaberg until 3.30 pm . Coming back , depending on the day , you <URL> . Then you 've got the <URL> , but there the departure times out of Brisbane are in the evening , so even less useful . Finally , you have the <URL> , which is meant to be one of the top rail journeys in the world . However , for getting to Bundaberg , your departure time in Brisbane is 9am , getting you in at 4pm , and returning times are 9.15 am . They only run some days of the week ( it 's a long line ) . Bus is going to be similar , unless you fancy some wee hour coach journey , if you can find it . Even in 2004 when I was doing a scenic flight out of Hervey Bay ( next to Bundaberg ) we got up early in Mooloolaba , rather than try and get there from Brisbane . Final option - Bundaberg does have an airport , there may be a convenient flight from Brisbane , and you could get a bus/train back , or vice-versa ?
Generally speaking German IC and ICE are somewhat comparable to Dutch IC in that they do not stop at every station along the way . Their comfort level is higher ( often with a bar/restaurant and always the possibility to reserve a seat ) which make them feel more luxurious than Dutch trains but they are not really " exclusive " . Like TGV in France , ICE are in fact very common , gradually replacing IC on many lines so planning around them is difficult . Practicality of regional trains to cover long distances is going to depend on the precise time and destination . As an example , a quick search on bahn.de shows that Hengelo to Stettin is about 11 hours with 5 to 7 changes . You can reach the same destination in less than 8 hours , with two changes using the Amsterdam-Berlin direct train . If you travel alone and are able to book in advance , the price difference is not big : 39 $ to Berlin from any station in the Netherlands plus 10 $ for the Berlin-Stettin-Ticket , which works out to 8 $ more than the schönes Wochende Ticket . Following the same idea , you can also cross the Dutch border with a regional train or by some other means and book a Europa-Spezial ticket from the first German train station to Poland ( <URL> ) , also for 39 $ . You do n't even need to stop near the border , from Berlin you can get a connection all the way to Gdańsk , Warsaw or Kraków with the same ticket . You can travel on a week day as well so this solution is a lot more flexible and comfortable for a very small price difference . However , for several people , the price difference would be significant because one of the main advantage of the schönes Wochende Ticket is that a whole family or a small group ( up to 5 people ) can travel with one ticket .
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
It is absolutely legal to shoot at a range as long as you either shoot their guns or bring your own legal firearm to the range provided your weapon meet range 's restrictions . For example : <URL> will rent you a firearm , similar is available from <URL> . Normally the only thing that you need to have with you is a valid photo ID . You can probably use <URL> to limit the list of shooting ranges .
I am not sure about the skyscrapers , but it is definitely possible to access <URL> , which is right in the centre of the city .
There are things I would try doing and there are the others . Attempting to enter Russia before my visa is valid ( or attempt to overstay my Russian visa ) even if by a few hours only clearly belongs to the others . The visa is valid from a minute before 00:01 of its first validity date and until a minute after 23:59 of its last validity date . Entering the country earlier ( even two hours ) is illegal entrance . While the Finnish conductors and even the passport/toll people often seem rather nice ( and I have heard one joke around with the passengers ) , the same can not be said for the Russian ones . I perceive them as people I would not want to cross . Even if the Russian border personnel does not board until Vyborg ( Viipuri ) , they will know that the train entered their country at 22:00 and that you need a valid visa for today if you are on that train . On an unrelated note : I read it on VR 's ( Finnish state railway 's ) website ( but ca n't find it anymore ) that if you intend to travel with Tolstoi , the night train from Moscow , you must make sure that your visa is valid for an ' additional ' day , since the train does not cross the border until well after midnight . So : No , just no . If your visa is valid from day X , do not enter Russia until day X.
You need the drivers license from your home country an <URL> that serves as a translation . Even if there is no legal requirement for this ( I found conflicting information on this ) , you can not rely that the policeman who stops you in the road nor the clerk at the car rental knows English well enough to read your US license . There are different ages required depending on the rental agency . <URL> you to be 21 , <URL> .
From Kate 's first link : International marriage information : Couples from outside the United States can be married in Las Vegas . Most countries will want a certified copy of your marriage certificate and an Apostille from the Nevada Secretary of State . The marriage certificate costs $ 10 and the Apostille costs $ 20 . The Nevada Secretary of State can send the Apostille and certified marriage certificate copy directly to your government for you . Note that this is in addition to the $ 60 for the marriage license and whatever you pay to whoever actually marries you . In the US system the government usually does n't actually perform the marriage , you go to the official of your choice . Many of the major casinos here have wedding chapels . You can go to a justice of the peace ( low level judge ) to get married but I do n't think you 're going to come halfway around the world for a totally no-frills wedding . Note that you do pay the justice of the peace if you go that route .
A tourist visa for US citizens can obtained upon arrival for 25 USD , preferably cash , exact change . After you deplane you first stop will be immigration . Before immigration there will be some well signed , official , booths for obtaining visa on arrival ( VOA ) . There will be a fee of 25USD ( this it not a bribe or anything of that nature , but a legitimate fee ) . It 's payable by cash or credit card . I would recommend having enough cash on hand in case the credit card system is not operational/available . There are also ATMs nearby and you may be able to pay in Indonesian Ruppiah , which is what the ATMs will probably dispense . 1 USD ~ = 10,000 IDR . Once you have paid the visa fee they will place your visa in your passport . From there it is a straight shot through immigration in a line marked for people who did VOA . No need to stand in the line for non-VOA visa people . Someone will check your passport to make sure there 's a visa in there . Then on to baggage . Some of these details may apply specifically to Soekarno-Hatta International Airport ( CGK ) but the principles should apply throughout Indonesia .
Despite that fact that many websites claim to offer them , there is no such thing as an e-visa for Vietnam . However in addition to normal consulate-issues visas , there is a " Visa On Arrival " available , however this works differently to visa on arrival for most other countries . In order to obtain a VOA for Vietnam for need to first obtain an official invitation letter , and this service is available via countless websites - some of them legitimate , some of them less so . TripAdvisor has a very good article on <URL> and I would strongly suggest reading it before you decided if a visa on arrival is right for you , and before picking a company to arrange the invitation letter . Be very careful when picking a company to use for this service - many companies go to great lengths to try and mislead you during the process . For example , www.vietnamvisa.govt.vn appears to be a legitimate Vietnam Government website - except it 's not . The government domain is " gov.vn " - this website has nothing to do with the government and is trying to use a similar domain to mislead you .
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
First of all , here <URL> that lets you search camp sites across Japan . Regarding the two places you mentioned , a quick search resulted in this one : There is a <URL> that lets you stay in a group hut or rent a tent . Here is their <URL> . There seems to be only one camp ground in Yagen Valley , and it does not offer rentals . I also tried to find rental tents ( テントのレンタル ) in Mutsu city but could not find any .
In most cases you can buy tickets before departure . But there can be problems during russian holidays . At least 4 dayly buses are available from different companies . And only one company offers you online booking : <URL>
For all practical purposes , the Mongolian tögrög is a closed currency , meaning you ca n't buy it outside of Mongolia . I 'm not quite certain why this is so , but probably because it seems to be illegal to take more tögrög out of the country than you bring in , so there 's no easy way for an overseas bank to gain a supply of tögrög to sell to you . ( But do n't worry about getting into trouble taking a few left-over notes out of the country . ) ATMs are plentiful in central Ulaanbaatar . They 're often inside banks , rather than on outside walls , and are typically labelled ' ATM ' or ' банкомат ' . I had no difficulty using a British bank card there . If your first stop in Mongolia is Ulaanbaatar , you wo n't have any difficulty obtaining currency . If you arrive by train , then it 's normal for a man to come down the train selling tögrög in exchange for various currencies . I brought some US dollars with me for that purpose , as that tends to be the most easily traded currency .
Travelling internationally without any travel document is between very difficult and impossible depending on the details . If you need to leave the Schengen area and re-enter , you definitely need a passport . You would in all likelihood be refused boarding by the airline or blocked from leaving the Schengen area by the border guards . If you are travelling within the Schengen area and have a residence card , it might still be possible in practice even if it 's not explicitly allowed . If you have nothing at all , you would probably still be able to physically cross the border but could get in serious trouble if you are found in another country with no document establishing your status . Even travelling in France is not without risk . Technically , you are supposed <URL> ( i.e. show your visa ) at any time if the police asks . If you do n't have your passport on you , they could detain you for some time to check your status . Obviously , the requirement to surrender your passport for a visa application puts you in an awkward situation but there is no easy way around that .
In principle it is possible . However , one has to foresee one or two extra steps before starting to plan the trip per se . Your friend should first talk to his doctor . He is the person to ask . In principle dialysis patients can travel , but not without receiving green light from their doctors . The local hospitals can assist patients to make the necessary arrangements for the dialysis abroad . Dialysis patients probably ca n't go everywhere in the world . They have to go to a place where they can receive the appropriate treatment . Dietary requirements are also likely to restrict the choice . The most obvious and easy option for your friend would be to travel within Switzerland . Distances are short , the country has a lot to offer , arrangements can easily be take and reimbursement is not an issue . Travel in Europe should not be a big issue either . Check with your health insurance what the exact modalities and possibilities are .
Short Answer Yes ! Typically you will find a ticket conductor on-board who will check tickets in the start . Try to contact him beforehand in order to ensure risk free travel . The ticket conductor can help you purchase a ticket on-board the train . The ticket will be a little bit more expensive , but it is certainly possible . This is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , If you 're really in a hurry , you can buy your ticket on Deutsche Bahn 's trains . These tickets cost slightly more than conventional tickets bought before departure , but you can pay either in cash or by credit card . Certain special offers are not available on trains . NB : if buying a ticket worth over EUR 50 , you are required to present either your passport , national ID , or your BahnCard . One final tip : if travelling by local train or suburban rail services ( S-Bahn ) , you need to buy your ticket before boarding your train . As Deutsche Bahn mentions , make sure the train you are trying to board is not a local train ( you will have to pay a penalty fare if you are found in these without a ticket , costing double the ticket price or at least 40 EUR ) . The local trains include Interregio-Express , Regional-Express , Regionalbahn , S-Bahn . For the IC , ICE , ICN this would be completely valid and applicable and is a great lifesaver ! Trains with Reservations Some trains mandate reservations , such as the ICE-Sprinter or the <URL> . You must ask the ticket conductor for permission and ensure that there are empty seats on the train before getting comfortable in the train . Typically it 's easy to check if a seat has been reserved for someone . The reservation detail is shown by a display on top of the seat . All trains however do not offer this feature . This means that you can not go and grab a seat and wait for the train to start moving before you purchase the ticket from the ticket conductor . If empty seats are available on such a train and you are able to purchase a ticket ( along with a reservation ) , the ticket conductor will allow you to travel on the train . If you are found on a train which has mandatory reservation and has no empty seats , you will be asked to de-board on the next station . An ICE-Sprinter ( or CNL ) is never absolutely necessary in order to reach from Point A to Point B , but just in case you do take one of these trains , you want to avoid unnecessary problems . DB is not the only operator in Germany You must also take note that a significant portion of stock operated in Germany is not <URL> by Deutsche Bahn ( information provided by @Tor - EinarJarnbjo ) . Deutsche Bahn <URL> about 34,000 km of the 41,000 km of railway track in Germany , but many other private companies run their stock on this network as well . Alas , Deutsche Bahn does not operate most of the regional trains anymore in Germany , but most of the operators apply the same DB rules ( and in addition the regional " Verkehrsverbund " rules ) . There are <URL> ( in near future only four ) non-DB long distance services in Germany not operated by DB , but none of them stops at any airport . ( information provided by @neo )
You are not permitted to sit in a different cabin from your ticketed cabin unless you are moved there by the cabin crew ( say , there is a medical problem and extra seats are needed mid-flight -- though you 'd still probably get reseated in crew seats instead of in business class ) . " Self-upgraders " will be discovered very quickly and removed as a matter of policy on any airline . Why not allow people to move to empty seats ? One might as well ask why not allow people at the gate to fill empty seats in the economy cabin . The plane is leaving one way or the other , so those seats would be " wasted " too . But the airline must protect its revenue and minimize its costs . If it tolerated people moving up without paying , it would both disincent people from purchasing premium fares ( whether revenue or award ) , and also incur costs that it would not otherwise have had to bear . Seats on an airplane are priced according to how the airline believes it can make a profit , taking many factors into consideration . Premium cabin prices reflect the premium people ( or rather more often , their employers ) are willing to pay for a more comfortable flight and a more exclusive cabin , as well as the higher costs of operating : There are fewer seats for the given space , so each seat must cost more to make the equivalent revenue There is a higher grade of service in those cabins ; for example , there is a higher ratio of flight attendants to passengers , and the flight attendants have more responsibilities ( e.g. addressing passengers by name , distributing pajamas ) . Flight attendants are expensive . The amenities in premium cabins are more expensive , not only to purchase but to prepare . In economy , your meal probably comes on trays that come straight out of the oven . In international first , you would expect your meal to be plated , which takes much more time and effort . It is already the case that when the economy cabin is full , gate agents will upgrade people who are high status frequent flyers and/or on very high fare tickets , according to each airline 's rules and procedures ( operational upgrades ) . American , Delta , and United indeed offer " automatic " upgrades to their elite frequent flyers on domestic flights . But even in these cases , some seats may go out empty . For example , the airline may be unable to cater enough meals for a full premium cabin , and the airline would not want to risk upsetting a paying customer by failing to deliver the promised level of service .
It is possible ( for an unusually knowledgeable travel agent ) , but not easy . There are two fields in the PNR for each airline , the FQTV field ( frequent traveller number for mileage earning ) and the FQTS field ( frequent traveller number for status purposes ) . These can be set to different values . But airline IT systems are not always designed to understand that this can happen , so even if you manage to find a travel agent who understands what you are talking about , it is not guaranteed to work . If you use a tool like the free MyFlights tool , it will tell you which numbers you have attached to the booking and whether they are FQTV or FQTS ( or another type of FQT number ) . MyFlights is only available for Amadeus bookings .
end question
start question
Is there an ATM in Lille Europe station ?
There is ! But it 's slightly hidden , and you 'll probably miss it on your first attempt ... ( I certainly did ! ) Towards the north end of the station , not that far from the Eurostar checkin , are the toilets and a Bureau de Change . Hidden away in the wall between the two is the sole ATM in the station . As of June 2014 , it 's run by Societe Generale , and therefore does n't charge any extra fees for most people . If you look on the <URL> , and look around the area labelled " Hall 3 " , you 'll spy the logo for it . Basically , head for the Bureau de Change or Toilets , and look carefully between the two , and lo ye shall find the ATM of which ye searches ! If all else fails , at various points in the station are maps , which include a red " vous êtes ici " marker . Check them , and use those to narrow in on the ATM ( or whatever else it was you were looking for ) . Lille Europe station is something like 500m long , so you can end up walking rather a lot of you do n't spot it and keep going ...
I work in Reading and regularly cycle in the area and also use the station . I can tell you that no such provision exists for secure bicycle storage . The station is a known hotspot for cycle theft so I would not risk leaving a decent bike there . But ... if your bike is n't particularly expensive and does n't stand out you 'll probably be OK . Just remember to follow <URL> .
Because this does not involve providing a service or product , but something that 's very much open to personal taste , I would think it much harder to actually maintain a successful platform in comparison to , say , couchsurfing . That said , these communities or services do exist , though I have no personal experience with them . Here are a few : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( though this one seems to be more about leveraging your existing network of friends )
Other answers have given some lists , and talked about the definitional problems , but they do n't seem to have anything like an ontology . <URL> is a large database of geographic names with relations between them . It 's not always easy to get all the data from the website ... you might need to download the database and write your own programs to access it . For example searching for " Hispaniola " finds the island and shows that it 's shared between Haiti and DR , but I ca n't see how to find the link in the other direction ( i.e. , DR is situated on Hispaniola ) .
Yes , there is a code for the Bay Area : QSF , which covers SFO , OAK and SJC . These are called " Metropolitan area airport codes " , and <URL> . However , there 's an important caveat : unlike " NYC " , this particular code is not actually an IATA code , it 's just convenient shorthand for some airline booking systems ( GDS ) . " QSF " will thus work on Sabre and ITA , but not other systems , where " QSF " may also be an obscure airport in Algeria . Wikipedia has a ( partial ) list of bona fide <URL> .
Every decent rail station in Russia has a luggage storage room . Yekaterinburg is one of the largest Russian cities , so it definitely does have one . However , finding it might sometimes be non-obvious . Look for signs saying " камера хранения " ( kamera khraneniya ) , they usually have a stylized picture of a suitcase , or ask someone . There may even be several storage rooms , in such a case make sure you remember in which you left your luggage . Most probably it will be a big room somewhere in the basement with a strong guy or two taking your luggage and giving you a receipt . When you come back , you give a receipt back and they give you the luggage . In such a setting , the price usually does not depend on the size of a luggage piece ; that is , leaving two small bags will be twice as expensive as leaving twice as big bag . Bags that are really uncommonly large can be denied . The price per 24 hours should be something between 100 and 400 rubles , but it may be rather odd , up to some kopecks . Sometimes a different rate may be applied for shorter terms , but sometimes you have to pay for 24h even if you leave the luggage for 1 hour only . This 24 hours may be either midnight-to-midnight , either exact 24 hours since the moment you leave your luggage ; better find this out in advance . Such storage rooms might have some short periods of time when they are closed . Make sure you know the schedule ( it is usually displayed near the room ) before you leave bags , so that when you come to get your luggage , you do not find the room closed . Several rail stations in Russia have also automated storage rooms , but these are rather uncommon . These are big rooms filled with automatic deposit boxes . You buy a special coin or a card from an attendant at the entrance , then find a free box , put your belongings there and lock it . You might see old soviet-style boxes with mechanical locks where you set a 4-digit code , lock it , then come back and open it with that code ; or you might see modern ones where you use a plastic card to open/close the box . Make sure you remember the number of your box , as it is very easy to get lost there . Also make sure you know what is the maximal amount of time you can store your luggage there . Maybe you need to know this time in advance and tell it to the attendant at the entrance when you buy a coin or a card , and therefore pay in advance . In such automatic boxes you pay for one box , independend on the number of luggage items you put there . The boxes are usually rather spacious , although unusually big suitcases might not fit in , and then you are out of luck . Note also that both in manned and automatic storage rooms you most probably be charged anew each time you take your luggage out . Make sure you take out everything that you might need while you go around the city , because if you come back and say : " oh , I forgot to take out something " , they will charge you for one more period . Also , it is a good idea not to leave anything really valuable in the luggage . I have not heard much of anything stolen at these rooms , but better safe than sorry .
<URL> , reportedly the largest in Europe , that was formerly the headquarter of Nixdorf Computer Corporation . It 's official website is <URL> .
Yes , at T1 ( International Terminal ) and T2 ( Domestic Terminal ) . I was there in 2011 but ca n't remember the details ( except that I did use internet connection at the airport ) . Anyway , <URL> is a good memory aid , and several tips from 2011 and 2012 say there 's indeed wifi available . <URL> : Free wifi all over with the " FREE WIFI BY EXPEDIA SYD " network . Just choose a destination and flight number . <URL> : You get free and fast wifi here ! <URL> : Free wifi in the international terminal ( T1 ) <URL> : Aquí el wifi gratis funciona !!! Update : The <URL> also confirms this : Free Wi-Fi is available throughout International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) . Sydney Airport now provides free Wi-Fi for all travellers at both the Domestic ( T2 ) and International ( T1 ) Terminals . You can use any Wi-Fi enabled device to connect including your laptop , smartphone or tablet . Simply select " Free Internet by sponsors name &amp; SYD " from the list of available networks , answer the questions , read the terms and conditions and click " Proceed " . You will be shown a sponsored message then directed to a website . From there you can browse the internet for up to 2 hours and 500MB of data . Coverage is provided throughout the entire International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) .
I use Boingo for accessing private wifi at airports and cafes that you would otherwise have to pay for . It is about $ 10 per month and works in many countries including Latvia . I did a search for hotspots at <URL> and they seems to mostly be in Riga . So if you are staying there great , but if you are going out in the countryside not great . If you want cell phone data then I have just bought local USB modem device for about $ 50 and SIM card with local data plan . I have done this in Boliva , Paraguay and Chile , have n't tried in Latvia but I assume they have them there too . Finally when I travel in less developed countries there are always lots of internet cafes and they will often let you connect your laptop direct to their internet via a cable if you pay them a small fee . This gives great speed and cost of about $ 1 per hour . I am not sure where Latvia is on the internet development scale so you will have to scope this idea out on the ground .
You ca n't really count on Harbor Masters knowing English although <URL> mandates at the very least a <URL> for all people responsible for communicating to ships at sea or ports . In addition to this I have found <URL> and <URL> , which seem to suggest that at least some proficiency in the English language is required for all crews operating at sea .
According to <URL> the bus terminal is called " Terminal Rodoviario de Valparaíso " and the Google Maps insert calls it " Copropietarios Terminal Rodoviarío de Valparaíso " . <URL> calls it " Ag.Terminal Valparaiso " . It seems the correct address is Av . Pedro Montt 2831 , Valparaiso , Región de Valparaíso Which looks to be right next to Google Map 's entry for <URL> ( though they list the address as Pedro Montt 2860 ) . Either address should be close enough . I 've submitted an update to Google Maps for the correct address .
Firstly , I have slept in plenty of hostels in the UK , without using a YHA card . Any hostel on HostelWorld or <URL> will let you stay there without any loyalty cards . Your best bet is to follow this approach : Go to Hostelbookers ( often cheaper than Hostelworld ) . Choose country , city , and dates . Look at the ones available . Generally they have dorms ( multiple people in a room ) from 3-30 ( ! ) , depending on the hostel . Evaluate based on amenities , price , reviews and the type - some are party hostels ( generally the atmosphere rating is high then ) , some are more low key and friendly . Check for things like - are families welcome ( you may not want kids around ) , does it have a bar ( often louder and drunker ) , and so on . If it 's a HI Hostel ( Hostelling International ) or a YHA one , you can get discount cards for those groups . Often however , you can negotiate on arrival if it 's not too busy , or ask for a discount for multiple nights - generally for smaller or owner-operated hostels . Book ahead , especially in summer - if you have a limited selection , some towns sell out fast at certain times , when festivals are on , for example . Sometimes you 'll start to see similar hostels - chains - in different cities ( eg The Point hostels in South America ) . This gives you an idea as to the standards and conditions and style of the hostel ( also Base in New Zealand , and Wombats in much of Central Europe - Austria and Germany ) . You sometimes get discounts for staying at the same chain - loyalty if you will . The Point used to give free drinks and a t-shirt . Go figure . Of your country list , one exception is Croatia . There are still hostels , but if you go to the Plitvice National Park , there are entire streets near the entrance with normal homes . They have signs outside with either ' no room ' , or a price - and you can rent a room in a house for a night . It was fantastic , private , and very reasonable .
my name is Karyne . I am French , 40 years old and started fulltiming 8 years ago in my RV . I have been fulltiming mainly in South Spain , South Portugal and some parts of France , and I 'd like to share my experience and observation with you . First of all , to avoid confusion : we call European recreational vehicles " motorhomes " , and US ones " RVs " . Most Fulltimers in Europe chose to live onboard RVs for the obvious reasons that they are made for proper living onboard in all comfort , when motorhomes are mostly made for Partimers . We call Fulltimers people who live 100 % of the time in their RV or motorhome . Anybody staying part of the year in a house are Partimers . Amongst all RV and motorhome users in Europe , I 'd say that there might be around 5 % Fulltimers . Fulltimers in Europe are probably around 95 % retired people above 60 years old . There are very few mid-age Fulltimers . The Fulltimer community , in particular for mid-age people is not organised at all like in the US where there are special web-sites for temporary jobs or jobs-on-the-go dedicated to RVers , so it is n't easy to find a way to earn a living . The elder community however is better organised . perhaps because they move less than us and tend to go from point A ( North country ) for 4 month in same campsite to point B ( South country ) for the rest of the year . They tend to Jamboree and have plenty of time to spare and meet friends . Many of us mid-age RVers often need to " square-wheel " for a while , parked in a place where there is work ( my case for the moment ) , but we never ever leave our trucks !!! It 's in you or not ... Well hope this might have helped a bit . Plenty of hellos from Southern Spain to all Fulltimers ... xxx Karyne Hi guys , Karyne again . I have red some of the posts , and I think there might be a big confusion for all of you between Partimers and Fulltimers . Please read above for details . However , as far as the Partimer market is concerned , it is surely huge and predominant . I also forgot to mention that the worse the economical crisis gets , the more people are looking towards alternative ways of leaving and moving to other countries . So yes surely campsites are full of square-wheelers all over the place . A monthly campsite 's pitch fee is not cheap , very similar to a small apartment 's rental ( 300 $ to 400 $ ) , and to get best rates we always ask for a special long term stay , usually 3 month , but once you add all extra costs ( electricity , water , taxes etc ) , campsites are cheaper , kids can still play in a safe garden , there is no maintenance at all to do apart from your own rig , etc etc. . Karyne ... AGAIN ... lol I was contacted in 2007 by Jim Twamley , Professor of RVing , in order to write an article for www.rvtravel.com about fulltiming in Europe . You can read it here : <URL> Of course since then loads of things have changed in my life , including husband , lol , I started to travel alone , following friends or my parents who are also fulltimers nowdays , but I 'm still in the same RV ... Concerning fulltimer cost of living , of course it all depends from how many people are travelling , if there are any pets , pulling a trailer or A-frame for a car ... it all adds up . I have personally noticed that campsites stay or wild camping often evens out . Simple , if you wild camp you do n't spend on your pitch but you do on gas ( there are extremely few wild camp places where you can stay longer than a few nights ) . Of course the longer you can stay the more you are saving . The rest stays the same ... food etc. . We take the principle of 800 $ to 1.000 $ a month for a couple , assuming you stay in a campsite at least 3 month at a time to get up to 50 % discount , or keep on moving from wild camp to wild camp . Feel free to contact me by mail on barb.fulltimer@hotmail.com or look for my name Karyne Fouillet on FaceBook . If I can be of any help , it 'll be a pleasure . xxx
I do n't see any problem at all at finding a cab at Navtlugi or wherever you want in Tbilisi . Just rise you hand on the road and any free car will stop near you . And also I am sure that plenty of cabs reside on the Navtlugi station . However , if you want to be super safe , you can call taxi by phone with following numbers : 2 717 717 291 14 14 2939 100 2535 535 2200 200 0322 10 50 50 2 201 201 2 30 88 88 2 377 877 2 939 939 247 77 44 293 91 00 291 14 14 274 74 74 2 27 26 26 551 999 244 571 999 244 230 03 01
From both personal experience and <URL> , there are multiple ATMs at Ben Gurion airport in Tel-Aviv . I 've even managed to find a photo of one ATM in the arrivals zone : <URL>
Euston Station itself also has free wifi , but power points are tricky and it is super busy/noisy . I would highly recommend the <URL> which is just down the road ( see the website for a map &amp; opening times ) . It has everything you need - free wifi ( you will need to sign up ) , powerpoints , toilets , coffee shops . There are even a few exhibits if you want to take a break and stretch your legs . Just go in , find a seat on one of the many floors , turn on your wifi and log in to the library ( BL visitor from what I remember ) and follow the instructions . There is a little more info on the website , or when you arrive there is a huge information desk ( you really ca n't miss it ) .
There 's a bit of per-country variation , but the rule of thumb across Western Europe is that service charges are already included in the bill ( sometimes as a separate line item , sometimes not ) and it 's not necessary to tip in addition to this . If you must , and you usually would n't unless the service is really good , rounding up a euro or two to the nearest suitable number is sufficient . This is usually done only with cash , since the kind of places that accept credit cards tend to also be the kind of places with hefty service charges already in the bill , but you can usually tip by credit card as well the same way you would in the US : just write in the amount after tip and sign . Wikipedia has a fairly handy <URL> . Edit : Sigh . The OP asked about tipping in " Western Europe " , I 've summarized the rule for " Western Europe " , which is that tipping is generally not necessary . Of course there are exceptions and not every restaurant and every country is exactly the same , hence the link to Wikipedia , but the key point is that , unlike the US , you never have to leave 15 % in addition to the bill .
Once you go outside of your home country the vast majority of ATM transactions are handled via either the Visa or MasterCard owned networks . Even where they are handled via other mechanisms , you can pretty much presume that any ATM which is going to to allow international cards to be used is going to be a part of the Visa and/or MasterCard networks . This is true regardless of whether the card is a Credit Card , a Visa/MasterCard logoed Debit Card , or just a plain bank ATM card with the Plus , Maestro or Cirrus logos on the back . Both Visa ( Plus ) and MasterCard ( Maestro/Cirrus ) have features on their websites where you can search a specific city anywhere in the world to find ATMs that will work with any Visa/MasterCard cards . Presuming your ATM card is marked with either a MasterCard , Maestro or Cirrus logo then it should work at any of the ATMs listed on the <URL> . Mastercard also have a <URL> for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry . If it 's marked with either a Visa , Electron or Plus logos , then it should work at any ATM on the <URL> , or on the <URL> .
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
Technically , this is not allowed . The <URL> states : If you do not board your train as booked , your entire reservation is subject to cancellation . However , you can call Amtrak and try to change your reservation from Pontiac to Detroit . You may even get a partial refund if the fare would be less .
end question
start question
Can I travel within the US using only my foreign passport as ID ?
For travel in the US ( which I did in April ) you only need your passport as a form of ID . This is for the immigration process ( you 'll need a visa , most likely , in your passport ) , and for all internal flights as well . It is possible to fly internally without a passport as a foreigner , as an English friend did in April as well , but it was VERY difficult , as every security person expects you to have your passport available to travel with .
Largely No , but ... The UK does not have exit immigration checks . Your passport will be checked by airlines or ferry staff to verify you 'll be accepted into your destination , but no-one from the UK Border Agency will see/check/etc you or your passport However ... The UK is slowly , and many would say somewhat incompetently , rolling out a scheme originally called <URL> . That will involve carriers ( ferries , trains , airlines etc ) sending electronically to the UKBA the details of everyone entering and leaving the UK . It was partly deployed , and I believe will be rolled into the new program . Under that , there 's a chance that the UKBA will be told the details of you leaving . Your problem is more likely to be on your return to the UK . You 'd be entering the UK on your US passport , which only entitles you to a short visit ( up to 90 days ) , and not for the purposes of living in the UK . You 'll get a stamp . You may have issues with convincing them to let you in given that you do live in the UK , and you may have issues if you do n't leave the UK within 90 days on the US passport as the system may detect you as an overstay .
Canadian citizens may generally enter the US without a visa . Exceptions where Canadians are required to have a visa depend on the purpose for which they are entering , or on their criminal and immigration history , not on the location from which they are traveling nor on the jurisdiction wherein they reside . In most circumstances , Canadian citizens do not require visitor , business , transit or other visas to enter the United States , either from Canada or from other countries . There are , however , some exceptions to this situation . These exceptions ( and the visa category they require ) include : Treaty traders ( requires E Visa ) ; foreign citizen fiancé ( e ) ( K-1 Visa ) , as well as the fiancé ( e ) 's children ( K-2 Visa ) ; , A U.S. citizen 's foreign citizen spouse traveling to reside in the U.S. while awaiting final completion of the process of immigration ( K-3 Visa ) , as well as the spouse 's children ( K-4 Visa ) ; Spouses of lawful permanent residents ( V-1 Visas ) , as well as the spouse 's children who are traveling to reside in the U.S. while awaiting final completion of the process of immigration ( V-2 Visas ) ; Non-immigrants travelling to the United States for work ( Non-Immigrant Visas ) , including : Canadian government officials ( A Visas ) , if entering the U.S. for temporary or permanent assignment ; Officials and employees of international organizations ( G Visas ) , if entering the U.S. for temporary or permanent assignment ; and NATO officials , representatives , and employees , only if they are being assigned to the U.S. ( as opposed to an official trip ) . Furthermore , Canadians who have been removed from the United States or who have a criminal record , including for driving under the influence , will need to follow a separate set of procedures to enter the country . Source : <URL>
There are two ways for Saudis to travel legally to Thailand : First Way Get a paper from " Chamber of Commerce " indicating that you have business in Thailand . keep it with you until the renewal , and it 's easy to get . Conditions : You should have Establishment ( <URL> ) , now you can have Establishment without Location , or you can use your relatives Establishment if someone have one . You should n't apply if you are a Government Employee in Civil Affairs . if this conditions are applied on you , continue reading the first way , otherwise move on to the Second Way :) Now you just have to go to " Chamber of Commerce " and give them this printout papers of the following : Your Passport . National ID card . Commercial Register . Chamber of Commerce subscription . Apply for form in Chamber of Commerce ( you will find it there ) . They will contact " General Directorate of Passports " directly to check if you are not Government Employee then they will give you the permission . Second Way Get a paper from " Ministry of Health " or " Emara " indicating that you are going to Thailand for medical issues . Any Medical Report will help here , for example headache , lower back pain . And try to have invitation from physical therapy from Thailand and apply it to nearest " Emara " ( BUT YOU SHOULD FOLLOW UP WITH THEM A LOT ) because they are slow . Thailand up to a few years ago was stamping on external paper , but it seems they stopped that now so do n't count on it .
While the cheapest option for locals is the monthly pass , that 's not really an option here . Note that normally , bus/Skytrain tickets are $ 2.50 , unless you 're travelling more than one zone , in which case it jumps to $ 3.75 . Assuming you 're flying into YVR , there 's the Skytrain into the city . It 's worth noting that straight away , you 'll be hit with a $ 5 charge for leaving the airport on the SkyTrain , and that 's not even counting your ticket . However , there 's a way around this . You can buy Faresaver booklets of 10 single or two-zone passes , that work out cheaper than ten regular tickets , being $ 21.00 and $ 31.50 . And you do n't have to pay the $ 5 when using a Faresaver ticket ( I was sceptical too , but I have checked this with two Skytrain attendants and confirmed ) . In the airport , on arrival , ask for directions to the 7-11 ( it 's next to the post office ) . You can buy these booklets from any 7-11 . Now it 's two zones to get into town , so it sort of makes sense that you get at least one booklet of two-zones . However , you might consider a book of one and a book of two , as most travel you do would be downtown and a single zone . Note that after 6.30 pm , and on weekends , all travel is counted as just a single zone . These tickets are all valid for 90 minutes , and on the Skytrain , bus , and Seabus ( ferry to North Vancouver ) . One other option you could consider if you 're going to do a lot of travel in one day , is to get <URL> . You can buy this at any Skytrain station . Let me know if I missed anything and I 'll add to my answer .
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
As of now , there 's no cash back service in the UAE . There are talks about this every now and then in the GCC region , but so far it 's not implemented .
Basically , everything is now an " OV-chipkaart " . There are three main types of cards , all with an RFID chip in it : personal ( for people with a discount card , yearly rail card and the like ) , " anonymous " ( for infrequent use ) and disposable ( for punctual use ) . Depending on the card , you can load credit and travel using a pay-as-you-go system or directly load a product like a single trip or a day pass that will be valid on a specific trip or specific network . This system is used by the national train company ( NS ) , municipal transit companies like GVB , HTM ( the Hague ) and RET ( Rotterdam ) , by private train operators like Arriva or Veolia and by other bus companies like Connexxion or Veolia ( those two are now part of the same group but not fully merged as far as I know ) . With NS , paper tickets have been replaced by single-use chip cards ( with a EUR 1 surcharge over regular fares ) . Those do have an RFID chip too but can not be used for pay-as-you-go on other companies ' networks . The GVB day card is also such a chip card . It 's only valid on the GVB network ( metro , bus , tramway , and ferries in Amsterdam ) but , just like the single trip NS card , it is technically a disposable OV-chipkaart . Whatever you do , you are supposed to check in and out using an OV-chipkaart card every time you use public transport ( incidentally , with day cards , you could imagine the card would be valid nonetheless but I have been told several time that you really need to check in and out ... ) . Even one-hour bus tickets everywhere in the country are actually chip cards ( which the driver will often " check in " for you if you look like a tourist ) . So you have to use some sort of RFID card in any case and , as a visitor , your choice is between using a disposable card for each trip/network or an anonymous chip card for pay-as-you-go on several networks . If you choose to use disposable NS tickets and a GVB day card , you do n't need to get anything else . But if you do get an anonymous OV-chipkaart and load it with enough credit to travel on the train , you might just as well use it on the Amsterdam local transit network and you would n't need the GVB card . It 's up to you . In terms of costs , it 's going to depend on exactly where you want to go . With NS , you have to pay some surcharge anyway and the biggest problem is that you need to have at least EUR 20.00 on the card when checking in for pay-as-you-go . So for a short trip like Amsterdam CS-Schiphol ( where the regular fare is EUR 4.00 ) , you would have at least EUR 16.00 tied into the card when arriving at the airport , which is annoying . If you do n't travel a lot in the city , paying single trips with an anonymous chip card would probably be cheaper than a multi-day card ( you pay per kilometer ) but not by much . The main drawback is that the anonymous non-disposable chip card must be purchased for EUR 7.50 ( before loading any credit on it ) and you would then need to deal with the whole pay-as-you-go system . One variant would be to buy an anonymous card , load it with EUR 20 and use that for the way from Schiphol to the center and then in the city . After four days , you would have used most of your credit and probably spent less on the GVB network than the price of a GVB multi-day card ( at least if you do n't travel all day ) . Then you could buy a disposable NS ticket for EUR 5.50 ( that 's EUR 4.00 with disposable card surcharge and credit card fee ) for the transfer to the airport to avoid loading too much credit on your anonymous chip card at the end of the trip . But at the end of the day , no matter what you do , the total cost will be over EUR 30 and the difference between anonymous chip card and GVB day card is not going to be large . What you must definitely avoid is paying the trip to the airport with pay-as-you-go ( except if you intend to reuse the card for a future trip or intend to give it away to someone else who can use the credit ) . The easiest solution is therefore probably to buy single-use train tickets from the NS machines ( for transfer to and from the airport ) and then use a GVB multi-day card for all your journeys within the city . Assuming two ~ 3 km trips in the city a day ( to fix ideas that 's approximately the distance between the Central train station and the Museumplein ) , the costs would be : Single-use NS tickets and GVB day card : EUR 5.50 for each train trip + EUR 21.00 for the GVB card . Total : EUR 32.00 Anonymous chip card and single-use ticket for the return to Schiphol : EUR 7.50 + EUR 0.50 + EUR 4.00 for the way from the airport to the city center + EUR 11.00 for tram/bus + EUR 5.00 tied into the card at the end + EUR 5.50 for the transfer to the airport . Total : EUR 33.50 . Anonymous chip card only : EUR 7.50 + EUR 0.50 + EUR 8.00 for the train + EUR 11 for tram/bus journeys + EUR 16 EUR tied into the card at the end . Total : EUR 43.00 Disposable cards all the way ( buying train tickets with credit card and bus tickets with cash each time you step into a bus or tram ) : EUR 5.50 for each train
I do n't know what the law is , but when I was on Cuba , I always left my passport in the hotel safe and carried a copy . I spent some hours in a police station in Havana but I do n't think anybody ever wanted to see my passport . Many Europeans also have an identity card , I often carry that with me as a form of authentication . It does n't help you to get into the country , but it is a legal document and can be helpful if you have to deal with the authorities .
You can travel to Italy with your current valid passport and your permesso di soggiorno . You do not need your old passport or the old visa . Your permesso di soggiorno is not " based on " a visa ; it replaces the visa . With a valid permesso di soggiorno , you do not need any visa . See , for example , the <URL> Article 5 ( 1 ) ( b ) : For stays not exceeding three months per six-month period , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit ; ( emphasis added ) Similarly , the permit itself allows you to remain in Italy as long as it is valid , and by implication to enter Italy at any time .
It depends on your citizenship . Generally , <URL> : Foreign nationals require a valid and accepted travel document to enter Switzerland . In addition , a visa is required in certain cases . Furthermore , sufficient funds must be available or procurable by legal means to cover the cost of living during the transit through or the stay in Switzerland . The Swiss Federal Office for Migration ( FOM ) , the Swiss foreign missions and the cantonal migration authorities will gladly provide information on the principal conditions for entry to Switzerland ( www.bfm.admin.ch ) . Now the question is , what is a valid travel document ? This depends on the country . There is a <URL> for each country . Assuming from your profile that you 're Polish , a ID card is enough .
ECR is not something the US immigration is concerned with . It is only a formality for India ; and it only applies if you are traveling for work and even then , to a limited set of countries which does not include the US . Here is the official reference , from the <URL> ( I have highlighted the relevant parts ) : Emigration Act , 1983 provides that no citizen of India shall migrate unless he obtains emigration clearance from Protector of Emigrants . Similarly , it has been recognized that certain countries ( currently 17 ) do not have strict laws regulating the entry and employment of foreign nationals . They also do not provide avenues for grievance redressal . Thus they have been categorized as Emigration Check Required ( ECR ) countries . Hence , all persons , having ECR endorsed passports and going to any of the 17 ECR countries for taking up employment require emigration clearance . However , ECR passport holders going to any ECR country for purposes other than employment do not require emigration clearance . No specific mention of ECNR is made on the passports and the ones not endorsed as ECR , automatically belong to ECNR category . If you were to a take any GCC airline , you would be a transit passenger and ECR will not apply . To put it bluntly ; if you are able to exit the country , and you have a valid visa for the US - you should have no issues during your travel and on entry that have to do with your ECR .
It 's not necessary to have a refusal stamp in your passport . The fact of your visa refusal will be recorded in the <URL> , and the information will be available to the consulates and border officers of all Schengen countries . The same reasons for refusal that are ticked on your refusal notice are also recorded . Thus , all Schengen states will be aware that you have had a previous visa refusal from Germany , and the reasons for the refusal that the consulate gave to you .
To answer your questions : Can I leave with my Canadian passport US law says you must leave the US " bearing " a US passport , but there is no consequence for breaking this rule . The US does n't have exit checks , so there is no practical difference what you " leave with " . and let my mother bring my U.S passport to me once it finishes processing and enter with it when I come back to the U.S ? Yes and also will the immigration know that my US passport is still processing when I present my Canadian passport when I leave ? ( that is if I do n't receive my passport by the time of my flight ) hoping to get answers on this . . As mentioned above , the US has no exit checks . So you do not " present " anything to " immigration " when you leave the US .
Is it possible to legally obtain a second , fake passport ? The legality of obtaining a fake passport depends upon where you obtain it . I have seen market stalls in Cairo ready to sell any document you want legality notwithstanding . Not a market stall , but there 's ' paper shops ' in Belarus doing the same thing . For you it 's a transaction like a souvenir , for the people who make them it 's a different story . However , to have one in your possession in the EU ( including the UK ) is illegal , even if you did n't use it . If not , is it possible to obtain a second , real passport in a fully legal fashion ? ( This is my preference if possible . ) This is common with people who need lots of visas so they flip-flop them to travel on one passport when the other is tied up in an application pipeline . You simply need a premise . With respect to your strategy , consider this scenario ... You are at your relatives and give your parents a fake passport . You miss the bus or get waylaid in a brothel somewhere and do not show up at bed time . So your parents contact the police and innocently show them your fake passport . Wo n't this be a jolly hoot . So your strategy is blind to some of the things that can happen . The ' best practices ' prescription for your situation is to establish an independent lifestyle so that these impractical strategies are not needed .
Manuel , apparently there 's a document called ARB , Autorização de Retorno ao Brasil ( " Authorization to Return to Brazil " ) . I first found it on <URL> , then I found it on the <URL> . Sadly , I could not find any link on that subject in a website from brazilian consulate or embassy in Australia . In short , ARB it is a document valid for a single trip back to Brazil . Once in the country , it will be seized by the authorities and you 'll need to renew your Brazilian passport before leaving the country ( or use your Australian one ) . I 'm sure you can call your nearest consulate in Australia and obtain this document that will allow you to come back to Brazil .
It is safe to remove the receipts because you are supposed to return those receipts to the Japan Customs counters right after the passport control . Submit the Proof of Tax-Free Purchase attached to your passport when leaving the country - <URL> This leads to another question : " <URL> " .
Not a problem . I 've taken all sorts of weirdly shaped items in the past ( including a full stereo system in shopping bags ! ) , and as long as you meet their criteria , ie : no explosives or other banned substances no blades or other banned items fits their width x height x depth restrictions weighs less than their weight limits then you 'll be fine taking it aboard . Saying that , measure the backpack first - I 'm taking a 30L pack on a flight again today and it 's actually small enough to fit into most airlines ' carry-on limits . EDIT : Now that their site is working for me , I can see there 's actually a FAQ about this on that link above : I carry a big purse . Will I be charged a fee to bring that on board or can it count as my personal item ? Which sorta covers your question - basically will something large be too large ? And they respond . . All carry-on and personal items must fit within Allegiant 's luggage dimensions and may be verified prior to boarding . Please measure your bags carefully , including exterior wheels , pockets , and decoration . Personal items which do not fit completely underneath a seat may be considered a carry-on bag and passengers will be charged accordingly . Excess and oversize bags may be gate checked . The personal item must not exceed exterior dimensions of 7 in . x 15 in . x 16 in . ( 17.8 cm x 38.1 cm x 40.6 cm ) and must be placed under the seat . The carry-on bag 's exterior dimensions must not exceed 9 in . x 14 in . x 22 in . ( 22.9 cm x 35.6 cm x 55.9 cm ) . So as expected , as long as your ' personal item ' , whatever it is , meets their requirements , you should be fine .
Firstly It 's legal to see dancing girl but it is not socially accepted in Northern part specially Swat and surroundings . Though they are not eliminated they still exist but Taleban stopping them as suggest this <URL> . And of course it is not impossible , It 's a matter of value how much you give them . But reference can also work .
Yes , you are fine bringing a bag of protein powder in your carry-on . The <URL> ( which it would probably be considered ) to be wrapped and to be sent through the X-ray machine at the security checkpoint , but so long as it is <URL> it is n't banned . Note that , especially since it wo n't be in its original container , they may want to <URL> . The same goes for any powder ( e.g. powder makeup , sugar , dietary fiber supplements , talcum , Gatorade ) . It goes without saying that powders which are hazardous materials ( e.g. explosive or corrosive ) are banned of course .
end question
start question
What 's the furthest south ( in Chile ) that you can get from Santiago , Chile by public bus ?
The end of most major bus lines from Santiago is in Puerto Montt , from there people usually take the <URL> ferry to go further south , for example to Puerto Natales where there is another road . This is not a short ferry , more a cruise ship and takes four days . The other option is to go to Chiloé island which is south-west of Puerto Montt , There are several buses a day ( <URL> ) to Quellon , the southernmost city on Chiloe . Again there is a ferry involved to get to the island , but the ferry ride is much shorter and I think you stay on the bus .
<URL> is probably the cheapest , at 3.00 lira ( ~ $ 2 USD ) , but it takes very long ( ~ 1.5 h at times ) and is often packed . Havas bus is faster and costs 10 lira ( ~ $ 6.50 USD ) . If you plan to use public transport a lot , buy the Akbil pass ( saves a bit of money and you do n't need to dig for coins all the time ) . The trip is also possible via metro , but involves changing over twice ( Zeytinburnu to tram and a short walk at <URL> ) . This takes 3 tokens ( jetons ) , and costs 3 x 3 = 9 lira ( ~ 5 USD ) , in 2012 . ( <URL> )
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
Yes , but it depends on 2 things : Your destination country law , and your home country law . Here is an example : Indonesian couples wants to get married in Singapore . The following rules apply : They have to apply their notice of Marriage at <URL> At least one of them has to be physically present within Singapore for a minimum of 15 days before the date of notice of marriage . Both of them should not have married before and each of them have to bring one witness . Full details can be found at <URL> After they married in Singapore , the marriage itself is legal ( almost ) worldwide , however Indonesian government does not accept the marriage certificate as legal document . In the order to make it legal , the couple has to get a translation of their ROM certificate and reference letter in Singapore 's Indonesian Embassy , and within 1 year they should report to Indonesian Civil Office back in Indonesia ( You ca n't just report in Indonesian Embassy ) Trivia : A lot of Indonesian married in Singapore before 2009 because Indonesian law did not allow different-religion marriage , and then reported their marriage back in Indonesia .
South West Rocks ( and Arakoon ) is indeed an amazing place - I was lucky enough to grow up near-by , and holidayed at " the rocks " at least once a year . The nearest major city to South West Rocks is Kempsey , which is on both the Sydney-Brisbane rail line , as well as on the main highway between those cities . There are 2 bus services that run multiple daily services between Kempsey and South West Rocks , although keep in mind that at least some of these services double as school buses so you may want to avoid those particular services . <URL> <URL> ( Timetable may or may not be current ! ) The Busways route starts on Belgrave St , but not at the end where the train station is , but instead down near the highway . This is where most of the long distance coaches stop .
From Melbourne International Airport , the cheapest option is to catch the bus to Broadmeadows and then the train from there . Total cost is $ 3.76 if you already have a Myki . It 's roughly 20 mins to Broadmeadows station and then about 30 mins by train to Southern Cross . From Avalon , the shuttle bus by <URL> is the cheapest at $ 22 . It takes about an hour . If there are multiple people travelling however , it may be cheaper to take a cab to Lara and catch the train from there . For just one person though , the coach is still cheaper than this more inconvenient option .
There 's a place in Santiago that is famous for having lots and lots of casas de cambio , which is located on Agustinas near Paseo Ahumada , about <URL> : Along Agustinas , you will find lots and lots of places that exchange money : If anybody in Santiago is going to buy Paraguayan Guaranies , you 'll find them there . Unfortunately , the day I was in the area to take these photos was Sunday , so everybody was closed up for the day ( oh , by the way , almost everywhere in Santiago is closed on Sundays ) , so I was n't able to stop in and ask . An alternative approach would be to go on traveler and expat sites like <URL> and <URL> and see if anybody in Santiago is traveling to Paraguay and wants to buy your Guaranies ... but I think a trip to Agustinas would be more exciting ( : Safety This part of Santiago is not exactly dangerous , but it 's not the safest part , either . Pickpocketing and snatch-and-run crimes are fairly common in this part of town , so when you come out here , you might want to leave your valuables at home , and do n't bring HUGE amounts of cash with you . Agustinas is about 2 block away from a Metro station , or you can hail a cab in the street if you do n't want to walk a long distance after walking out of a currency exchange .
Looked in the Chilean Ministry of Tourism site and they have a <URL> where you can search for campings in specific regions os cities . Besides that I search the Google and found some others like <URL> which seems a good source , even though I ca n't be sure of how accurate it is . Mind that Chile is a country with many volcanoes and they may affect your camping plans . Be sure to check <URL> for updates on volcanoes activities .
The easiest way is indeed a taxi , and yes , that price sounds about right , although it 's a regular metered fare so the exact cost will vary . Not every taxi will be willing to up and off to Abu Dhabi on a lark though , but the airport taxi stand can sort one out if you ask , or you can call and book a cab . As for safe , well ... most UAE cabbies drive fairly sanely by the standards of the region , but the Dubai-Abu Dhabi highway always has the occasional blinged-up rich kid doing 300km/h in the fast lane in Daddy 's Lamborghini . The cheaper and safer , but slower and less convenient , option is the <URL> bus , Dhs 20 one-way . Buses leave from Ghubaiba station , on the Dubai Metro Green Line , every 30 min or so .
I 'm currently in Chile and have withdrawn money on several occasions . So far , once I 've aborted my withdrawal because the machine told me it was going to charge for my withdrawal . This , while , later , an ATM from the same bank did not charge . I 've tried with 3 or 4 different banks . This suggests to me that ATM withdrawal fees depend not on the bank , but on the ATM . Note , though , that my girlfriend , who does have a card from a bank in a different country to mine , does get charged ( and told she will ) , by ATMs that do n't charge me .
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
Unfortunately , my flight was very late , so I did n't actually arrive at Nice airport until just before 1am . The first thing to note is that the <URL> is very prompt about leaving , and at 30 seconds past 1am you 'll see its rear lights disappearing off into the distance ... The bus stop for the <URL> is not well signposted from the airport , and the route is a bit complicated by various carparks and roads that do n't seem to show properly on maps . Do n't expect to be able to find it very quickly your first time trying ! However , it is more frequent than the N100 , so may work better . Generally though , the bus service is pretty good in the day and early evening , and not too bad in the late evening , it 's just around midnight when things start to get hard , and you 'll probably need a delayed late flight ( like mine ... ) before you 'll end up with issues . At 1am , there was a huge line of taxis available at the airport ready to whisk people into town . When I returned at 1:20 ( having given up trying to find the N4 bus stop in the dark ) , there was a short wait for a taxi to arrive . At that time of night , taxis are a flat rate of $ 35 to the centre of Nice . I believe there are different flat rate prices for other areas . ( <URL> has a link to a slightly outdated price list ) Oh , and one thing to note for coming back from Nice to the airport - at the moment ( 2013 ) there 's lots of work going on around the station , and Place Massena . Lots of bus stops have been temporarily moved , but there are maps around which show the new locations . The <URL> ( airport < - > station ) and <URL> ( airport < - > city by coast , runs later ) are both very good and worth getting , but allow a bit of extra time to find the stops !
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
Yes there are . There are several bus lines that I could find online though I could only find 1 that provides cross border routes : <URL> If you look at their schedule you will find that they have a bus from <URL> and a connecting bus from Punta Arenas to Puerto Natales though I ca n't find the trip duration so it is possible that you may have to spend the night at Puerto Natales .
It depends on how you weight fast/cheap/comfortable and how far south you 'd like to go . My suggestion would be to take the <URL> ( $ 7 , ~ 45 min ) , then take Amtrak 's <URL> , which starts at $ 17 to Irvine ( 59 min ) and $ 22 to San Clemente ( 88 min ) . The Pacific Surfliner is reliable and clean , and bypasses the 405 freeway 's notorious traffic . There is WiFi provided , although reviews of it are mixed . A cheaper alternative is the <URL> , though there is no WiFi , and the trip is slightly longer as it is a commuter train and will make additional stops . You could also take an airport shuttle and save a little bit of time for about twice as much money . The main advantage is that you 're on the same vehicle door to door , so no waiting or luggage fumbling during transfers . South O.C. is a long way from LAX , however , and you may be forced to wait while they fill the van and while they drop off everyone else . Best case scenario with no traffic , you arrive in Irvine in an hour , but it can easily be triple that . The two <URL> concessions are currently SuperShuttle and PrimeTime , and there is also <URL> if you reserve in advance . It is a pretty straight shot down the 405 , but getting a one-way car rental from LAX to SNA can vary considerably in price . I just tried it now and was quoted $ 96 , and after adding fuel and insurance it would be more convenient simply to take a taxi , which <URL> estimates at $ 150 . There are other combinations of buses and trains that are possible , but these will take considerably longer and require multiple transfers . My favorite way to get from LAX-SNA was by Embraer 120 ; sadly , Skywest ( dba United Express ) discontinued those flights years ago .
Two days ago I took the Weidong ferry from Qingdao to Incheon , while both the Lonely Planet book and the ferry company web site state 775 CNY as the cheapest fare ( economy bed ) plus 30 CNY port tax = 805 CNY , the actual ticket was just 458 + 30 = 488 CNY <URL> Both China and South Korea have National holidays soon , so I do n't think this was an off-season price . One of the most interesting part of the sail was going through the locks into port of Incheon : <URL>
According to the web site of the <URL> , either a SSN or an alien identification card is required : Social Security Number : The disclosure of your social security number or alien identification number is required to obtain SC hunting and fishing licenses . This complies with SC Code of Laws Section 63-14-1080 and Federal law 42 USCA 666 ( a ) ( 13 ) , which requires a licensing agency to provide this information to the Child Support Enforcement Unit of the Department of Social Services to establish , modify and enforce child support orders . There is a <URL> for mail-in applications , but it requests a US address . It is unclear to me whether non-resident licenses are available only to US residents ( who live outside of SC ) , or to anyone , including US non-residents , but it appears ( based on the above quote about US Federal Law , and the application form ) that a licence likely is not available to non-US residents . To be sure , you may need to contact the office directly . Another option might be to find a private lake/pond where you can fish without a license .
Edit : Note that the reciprocity fee has been removed for US citizens - see <URL> for more details . Original answer , still correct for citizens of some countries : Officially I believe the fee is payable no matter how you enter the country , however the simple truth is that it 's only collected at Santiago International Airport , and it 's only collected on arrival . If you do not enter via SCL , then you will NOT have to pay the reciprocity fee - regardless of how you do enter the country ( land , water , or air via another airport ) . It is not collected on exit , even if you did n't pay it on entry so you can still depart from SCL without having to pay .
Website you mentioned in the question , covers <URL> . Also , bus operator has a handy <URL> tool . What you probably want to search , is the route from <URL> . You will have to switch buses at Borgarnes ( from no. 57 to no. 58 ) . Make sure the driver will drop you off where you want though . You can also try hitchhiking from Borgarnes . In the summer there are a lot of tourists and Snaefellsnes peninsula is quite popular destination . Also , make sure to be dropped off at the road to the farm south of Eldborg ( Snorrastadir ) and take an " official " trail from there . As far as I recall , there is a fence around the crater area ( it 's nature 's reserve I think ) and the terrain around it is quite difficult . You can also sleep at this farm if need be - there is camping site , showers , kitchen etc. . EDIT : I highly recommend to use this instead of Google maps , it is just much better ( you can see the trails etc. ) : <URL>
end question
start question
Is it possible to skip between days without changing hours by traveling West at 330mph ?
Your base facts are off . It is not the diameter of the Earth that is important , it is the Earth 's circumference . At the equator , the Earth 's circumference is approximately 40,000 km . Thus , to achieve what you suggest , you would need to travel at about 1,700 km/hour or 1,100 mph . This is much faster than any current commercial aircraft . This is also Mach 1.4 ( i.e. faster than sound ) . You could , however , circumnavigate the Earth closer to either pole , making your journey much shorter . The timezones do reach all the way north and south , at least in theory . Close enough to the pole and you could walk ! You do run into another issue though , and that is that the timezones are not uniform in size . Some are much larger and their size depends on your exact latitude . So , while you might be able to keep the sun in a fixed position in the sky ( relative to yourself ) , the local time may jump around a fair bit .
<URL> / transfer is simply opposite to public transportation , unlike buses for example where it is public to anyone , private transport means having your private non-shared transportation method like renting a car , motorbike , taxi or private jet :)
I called the passenger information number in Immingham and spoke with a live agent ... Foot passengers who do not have a vehicle will not be permitted to board on either side ; Passengers on push bikes may be permitted to board in the Immingham , unclear for the Brevik side ; The entry point in Immingham is covered by the same <URL> governing airlines , so the <URL> will be alerted from Brevik if they are carrying non-EEA passengers .
Yes ! It opened in October 2015 : <URL> I learned of this and borrowed the image from <URL> .
Difficult . You 're probably going to want to spend a night . In which case you could take a car . IF you wanted to take the train , the service is the <URL> . However , the <URL> , and you wo n't reach Bundaberg until 3.30 pm . Coming back , depending on the day , you <URL> . Then you 've got the <URL> , but there the departure times out of Brisbane are in the evening , so even less useful . Finally , you have the <URL> , which is meant to be one of the top rail journeys in the world . However , for getting to Bundaberg , your departure time in Brisbane is 9am , getting you in at 4pm , and returning times are 9.15 am . They only run some days of the week ( it 's a long line ) . Bus is going to be similar , unless you fancy some wee hour coach journey , if you can find it . Even in 2004 when I was doing a scenic flight out of Hervey Bay ( next to Bundaberg ) we got up early in Mooloolaba , rather than try and get there from Brisbane . Final option - Bundaberg does have an airport , there may be a convenient flight from Brisbane , and you could get a bus/train back , or vice-versa ?
Your base facts are off . It is not the diameter of the Earth that is important , it is the Earth 's circumference . At the equator , the Earth 's circumference is approximately 40,000 km . Thus , to achieve what you suggest , you would need to travel at about 1,700 km/hour or 1,100 mph . This is much faster than any current commercial aircraft . This is also Mach 1.4 ( i.e. faster than sound ) . You could , however , circumnavigate the Earth closer to either pole , making your journey much shorter . The timezones do reach all the way north and south , at least in theory . Close enough to the pole and you could walk ! You do run into another issue though , and that is that the timezones are not uniform in size . Some are much larger and their size depends on your exact latitude . So , while you might be able to keep the sun in a fixed position in the sky ( relative to yourself ) , the local time may jump around a fair bit .
South West Rocks ( and Arakoon ) is indeed an amazing place - I was lucky enough to grow up near-by , and holidayed at " the rocks " at least once a year . The nearest major city to South West Rocks is Kempsey , which is on both the Sydney-Brisbane rail line , as well as on the main highway between those cities . There are 2 bus services that run multiple daily services between Kempsey and South West Rocks , although keep in mind that at least some of these services double as school buses so you may want to avoid those particular services . <URL> <URL> ( Timetable may or may not be current ! ) The Busways route starts on Belgrave St , but not at the end where the train station is , but instead down near the highway . This is where most of the long distance coaches stop .
State of the road The road from Banyuwangi to Sempol is awesome . The road is like new . There is tarmac all way to the entrance of the Kawa Ijen ( national ? ) parc , there are very few potholes on the road ( if any ) . The reason for this , is that there is now a bicycle race called <URL> , running every year since 2012 ( or 2013 ? ) so the road must be able to welcome racing bicycle ! Riding during the day Extremely easy . Just take your time and you will reach the entrance of the parc in about 1h30min . Enjoy the ride , it 's a nice one , the road is great and the country side beautiful . Riding during the night Completely doable , it will just take a bit longer than if you do it during the day . You will also miss the view , but you 'll have it on the way back I suppose . I did this partly at night ( the last third of the journey ) , and the only thing is that it gets pretty cold ! It gets quite high , so cold too , make sure you bring some quality clothing ( thermal clothes , and a jacket ) . Renting a scooter in Banyuwangi Extremely easy . Just contact one of the local motorbike renting companies and get yourself ready to go . I got in touch with one called <URL> , I booked the scooter while in the train to Banyuwangi and it took 5 minutes to sort the paperwork when I came to their office . Was perfect . Here are their details : Tripoli Tour and Travel , Jalan Basuki Rahmat No. 77 , Banyuwangi , Jawa Timur 68414 , Indonesia , <URL>
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
As <URL> answer shows , wind is the primary determinant of the difference in speed . The <URL> is a prevailing wind that typically is going somewhere over the United States , and runs typically from the West Coast to the East Coast . As such , there is a prevailing headwind ( - mph ) going east to west and a prevailing tailwind ( + mph ) going west to east . The path of the jet stream is highly variable ( its usually shown on weather maps , because it is the primary determinant of weather ) , but can be usually thought of as a U shaped curve that on average goes from say , Oregon , south to Texas , and back up to say , Pennsylvania . How deep it goes , and how far north or south it is on any given day , can be off by several states . That 's also why flight times can vary so much from the printed value .
I have met the " fruit sniffing " dog several times and am aware ( from watching Border Security ) of currency-sniffing and firearms-sniffing dogs in addition to the classic drug-sniffers . Generally , these dogs sniff people 's bags more than people . ( The Canadian beagle that met my flight from the Caribbean once sat [ the dog 's signal ] about my bag , but the handler did n't even want to look in the pocket when I said there was no fruit in it . The Australian german shepherd did n't sit and the handler was not interested in looking to confirm when I said there was peppermint gum in the pocket the dog smelled at the most . ) [ As an aside , in addition to being more interested in bags than people , the vast majority of these dogs work Arrivals not Departures and are found in the baggage hall . The chances of someone being sniffed on their way to a plane are very low . Still , since you worry about this , let me also add that they should allow plenty of time to get to the plane so that unexpected stop-and-search moments do n't result in them being paged to get to the gate and almost missing the plane . I found <URL> that specifically shows cash dogs working in Departures at Heathrow . Watch it and you will hear the handlers tell people " let the dog sniff your bags " ( not you ) and see that the dogs do not touch the people . You can also see people putting backpacks and other worn-high bags such as purses down towards the ground to let them be sniffed . ] My recommendation to you ( and it helps other things as well ) is to have your pockets as empty as possible . In my case that means completely empty . Everything , even my boarding pass , money , and cellphone , is in my carry on bag . Make sure that none of your bags [ carryon or checked ] contain fruit , meat , drugs , thousands of dollars in bank notes , guns , or illicit drugs of course . Also , have a quick chat with your imam to clarify the difference between going over to someone 's home and patting their dog and generally deliberately interacting with a dog vs being in a public place where a working dog approaches you , sniffs you without touching you , and then leaves . The public is not supposed to pat or interact with the sniffer dogs and the dog is not supposed to touch you at all . This conversation may reduce your anxiety about airport dogs a little , which is a good thing , because anxiety in an airport always gets you extra attention . Your imam may also advise you about the washing that is required after a dog has licked ( unlikely with a trained professional ) or nuzzled you or your possessions . If you need to bring something specific to clean up from the dog contact , have it with you in your carryon , in a size and format that wo n't cause issues going through security . Finally if the dog approaches you , put your bag down , stand up , step back from your bag , and hold your arms out a bit - partly to make yourself bigger and partly so your hands are up and away from the dog . Look at the handler , not the dog , and say " please do n't let the dog touch me " - the handler should understand that request and be fine with it .
Regarding Hostelworld their business model is not around getting payments for the hostels . They are basically an hostel directory , with some sugar on it ( they also collect user reviews and have a booking management system for the hostels ) . The value that you pay for reservation is actually earned by these websites as commission . In other words : the down-payment is not part of the hostel earnings at all . In fact , if you cancel , in most cases they keep the initial fee and the hostel looses the booking without any earning . Booking.com is a bit different as far as I know , but It 's not 100 % guaranteed that you actually pay the hostel through it . Even though full payment is available and even though you input your credit card . This will probably vary from hostel to hostel , but your credit card is collect and it may actually happen that you need to pay when arriving to the hostel . I once asked why and they told me at the hostel that they had access to my information but they did n't have any agreements with payment gateways . Another option would be to contact the hostel directly to know if they provide any means of secure payment in advance . In any case be very careful . Do n't give numbers over telephone line and assure yourself that whatever payment method alternative they give you is actually secure .
It 's possible , although I would not necessary recommend it in the current climate . First , a map courtesy of the CIA : Start from <URL> , in the Turkish area of Kurdistan . Cross into Iraqi Kurdistan via the <URL> checkpoint , firmly in Kurdish hands , and the town of Zakho . Detour to <URL> at Syria 's northeastern tippy-top if you absolutely must plant your flag in Syrian Kurdistan , then continue to Iran via Erbil ( Irbil ) , which has direct buses to Urmia ( " Orumiyeh " on the CIA map ) via the <URL> checkpoint . Ta-dah , you 've now covered all three ( or four ) countries .
The border between Algeria and Morocco is closed . A legal ground crossing is not possible at this time . The only common neighbor is Mauritania . Even if the borders are ( legally ) open , you will have to cross regions where <URL> . There are direct flights between the two countries . It depends from where and to where you want to fly . As an example , Air Algérie and Royal Air Maroc have direct flights between Casablanca and Algiers . There is another possibility , if you want to avoid flying . You can sail from Morocco to Spain , go to Alicante , by train or bus , and <URL> . There are other options as well , such as Nador - Almeria / Almeria - Oran . You have to search a bit , what is available and possible during the period you want to travel . Some routes are seasonal and ferries do not leave every day .
The official answer appears to be NO . I e-mailed the Brazilian Consulate in Houston , and this was their ( ambiguous ) response : Dear Sir/Madam , Tourist visa applications require the presentation of the itinerary . Please contact this office once you have certain plans . You do n't have to present a purchased plane ticket . A round trip reservation under your name will suffice . It seems clear to me this was a copy-and-paste answer , and was n't intended to address my actual question of whether an entry reservation/booking was actually necessary . But I suppose it 's probably safest to have my full itenerary planned before I apply .
In the US , it 's certainly customary to tip the wait staff - presuming that there are wait staff ! At most buffets in the US there will still be someone that shows you to your table , brings you drinks , takes away your dirty plates , etc. . In these cases most people would tip that person , normally by leaving some cash on the table when leaving . The amount varies greatly , but would normally be in range of $ 1-3 per person depending on the number of people , the price of the buffet , and the level of service provided . For buffets where there is nobody who is acting as your wait staff ( eg , in breakfast buffets in many cheaper hotels ) then you would not normally be expected to leave a tip . Buffets are certainly one of the grayer areas when it comes to tipping . Some people will tell you " yes " , others " maybe " , others " no " - and at the end of the day it 's really up to you . As an Australian living in the US I frequently do n't leave a tip for buffet-style meals depending on the level of service provided - whereas in a non-buffet restaurant I would n't consider not adding a ~ 15 % tip to the bill . In my experience , the US is fairly unique in this regard - I would not expect to tip staff at a buffet in any other country .
In terms of getting a new passport , <URL> . You can renew or replace your passport at any time . It costs # 72.50 by post or # 81.25 through the Post Office 's Passport Check &amp; Send service . Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one - up to a maximum of 9 months .
From Easyjet on <URL> ' If you 've already selected seats , these will automatically be transferred to your new flight so no worries . ( 1/2 ) If the seats you chose are no longer available , we 'll allocate the closest match we can find . Any issue , please DM . Anna <URL> Hope this helps .
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What are the opening dates for ski areas at Nagano ?
According to <URL> , For most resorts , the ski and snowboard season in Japan generally starts around mid-December and goes through until around early April . Opening of course depends on the level of snow that accumulates at a particular resort , and some resorts do actually open as early as late October ( " early skiing " ) and can continue to operate until mid-May ( for " spring skiing " ) , usually with the help of snowmaking machines . They <URL> 88 resorts in Nagano so you could use that as a starting point to find resort web sites for more details and predictions about this year . I know that Canadian resorts will have a planned opening date on their website before they are actually open .
Consider one of the nearby hotels . Parking is available at all 3 terminals at Charles de Gaulle . Long term rates are 22 $ per day up to eight days and more expensive with a longer stay . This is presumably what you 've seen , and certainly for two weeks , that 'll hurt . If you are planning a longer stay it may be advisable to park at one of the nearby hotels who offer great deals on park and stay : these include the Hilton , Novotel , Ibis , Prestige , and Sofitel .
I 'm afraid I ca n't find any government numbers to back up my anecdotal evidence , but Shinjuku , Shibuya and Ikebukuro are all very safe - much safer than their equivalents in London , New York or any other ' world ' city . I 've spent many nights in each , in varying states of sobriety , and never had any problems at all . I 've lost my wallet a few times ( on trains , in bars and the like ) and never failed to retrieve it - either at the time from a fellow reveller , or at a police box ( koban ) later on . Kabuki-cho is the closest thing you 'll get to a ' red light ' district . Plenty of ' love hotels ' , hostess clubs , adult shops and yakuza ( Japanese mob ) to go around . Even so , much like Amsterdam 's equivalent , it 's as much an entertainment spot and centre of nightlife as it is a red light district . Whilst I would n't go swearing in Japanese at any of the well-heeled , little-finger-deprived yakuza that hang out there , they will seldom even look at a foreigner , never mind cause them any trouble . Too much hassle . Roppongi is slightly different in that it 's really a foreigner hotspot - plenty of dodgy bars and clubs , particularly of the ' hostess ' variety , which will invite you in and charge you hundreds of dollars for a drink and some chat time with a Japanese hostess . Technically you 're paying for the drink , but argue at the price and expect a rude exit from the establishment . If there were anywhere in Tokyo you should n't go , it 'd be here at night - but only because it 's not very nice , as opposed to dangerous . During the day Roppongi has some rather spectacular architecture , and is home to a bunch of Western and Japanese companies , as well as a ton of embassies . Not really a hellhole by any standards . As with any country , common sense rules . Make sure to keep your valuables in a safe place or tucked away on your person . If you 're dangling a wallet full of holiday fun time yen as you saunter through a train station it 's more likely someone will try to help you and point it out , but still , it 's better not to in the first place . Do n't leave luggage lying about either - it wo n't get stolen , but the police do n't like that sort of thing in case it 's something more sinister . Long story short - at no point in Tokyo will you ever cross some boundary from ' nice part crime-wise ' to ' holy christ it 's the Baltimore projects ' . Those boundaries do n't really exist .
This is a good question . If you have 5 days and you travel via Geneva there is an interesting option , which provides a good balance between time spent in trains , cities and mountains . This options involves using the scenic <URL> between Montreux and Luzern . The nice point about this trip is that it can be done at any time of the year . The trains are running all year round . And the mountains are always nice ! The trip runs as follows : Paris - Geneva - Lausanne - Montreux - Zweisimmen - Interlaken - Luzern - Zürich . Below you find a proposal of how to allocate the 5 days . The travel times are approximate . Use the <URL> to find out the precise information . Day 1 : Travel from Paris to Geneva ( 3 hours ) in the morning . Visit Geneva and continue to Lausanne ( 40 minutes ) in the evening . Spend the night in Lausanne . Day 2 : Spend a day and a night in Lausanne . Day 3 : Travel by train to Montreux ( 20 minutes ) and take there the train to Zweisimmen ( 2 hours ) and from there a train to Interlaken ( 90 minutes ) . You can spend the night in Interlaken or in Grindelwald or Wengen . The latter are two nice villages in the surroundings . It 's a matter of taste ( and possibly of budget ) . Day 4 : Spend a day in the mountains and visit the <URL> . Stay overnight in Interlaken , Grindelwald or Wengen . Day 5 : Travel to Luzern ( 2 hours from Interlaken ) , in the morning . Visit Luzern . When you are done , continue to Zürich ( 45 minutes ) . Of course , the 5 days can be allocated a bit differently , according to your gusto .
According to <URL> on Tripadvisor : yes , there are always taxis at Yangon airport : No problem at all , there 's always Taxis - at night they 're actually even cheaper as there 's less traffic ( general rule in Yangon nowadays ) - 7000-9000 Kyat would be an acceptable price to downtown ! If you use the Taxi booth mentioned by Dave , it 's less hassle but might be a little more expensive , if you ( only if you have small luggage ) walk 1 minute just outside the airport gates and flag down a Taxi there , it 's gon na save you around 2000 Kyat usually :-) But definitely no problem at all to find transportation ! Since Yangon is Myanmar 's most busy airport , I 'd be very much surprised if there is n't at least one taxi driver all the time there .
East Coast Park is a nice place for camping especially in Singapore . The first thing is that you 'll need to get a camping permit , which you can <URL> or at AXS self-service machines . You will only be able to do this if you have permanent residence or a long-term visa for Singapore as the permit requires you to enter an IC number or FIN ( and AFAIK , AXS machines only accept NETS payments for this particular transaction ) . You are n't allowed to have open fires , but there are many places in campsites that hire out BBQ pits for cooking for which again you can <URL> . Bringing your own BBQ pits is n't allowed unless on specific occasions ( public holidays , etc ) so that 's not an option . <URL> ( and to be honest , information does n't get more comprehensive than that ) . There is n't a lot you 'll be left wanting for that can not be solved by a quick trip to a convenience store , so camping at ECP is easy that way . Cycling is a one of the major activities to do when camping at ECP and the trails are fairly easy to attempt , can be done as a family activity I would say . You rent cycles for a day at fairly reasonable prices ( S$ 6-12 ) . <URL> is another place to consider camping ; feels a bit more secluded as it 's not on the mainland , and if you 're into off-road biking there are some good trails there . Camping at Pulau Ubin does not require a permit .
US immigration does usually let family members join US citizens in the citizen line . This does not extend to friends . As always , there 's a possibility you 'll get away with it , but if not , the non-US citizen will be sent to the back of the other line . Source : I 'm a UK citizen with US citizen family . Depending on the terminal you enter , whether your friend has an ESTA and has visited the US before , they may be eligible to use the kiosks that allow quicker immigration now .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
Because Kings Cross station is one of the handful of big stations both owned and managed by the infrastructure operator Network Rail , the best source of information is n't National Rail Enquires ( as normally would be the case ) , but <URL> , and more specifically <URL> This contains quite a bit more showering details : By the entrance to platforms 9-11 . Monday to Sunday 07:00 - 21:00 # 5 , pay at Excess Baggage , soap included . Towels available - deposit required . This is almost all correct ... On arrival at Kings Cross , head towards platforms 9-11 . Go past platform 9 3/4 ( really ! ) , and by the stairs up to the Parcel Yard pub is the Excess Baggage Company office . Go in there , pay them a fiver , and they 'll give you a receipt . Next , follow the corridor by the Excess Baggage Company signposted as Toilets . At that barrier , ring the bell , and show them your receipt . They 'll get you a towel ( no charge/deposit ) and some shower gel , then unlock a hidden door in the appropriate toilet area ( male/female ) . You then go in and lock the door . The shower , at least on the male side , is in good condition and quite large . The non-shower area in the room is a little small , but does have 3 sturdy coat hooks . One downside - no shower curtain , so you 'll need to hang most things up to avoid it getting wet ! Plenty of water pressure ( maybe too much given no shower curtain ... ) , nice and warm water , decent shower gel and pretty good towel . For a fiver , and after a long journey , it 's not bad .
I found that Disney has a <URL> listing rooms suitable for larger groups . All of these have a suite layout with one or more bedrooms separate from a lounge area that generally includes a sofa bed in some form .
The cheapest option to get to the city is to take an MTA bus directly from the airport . You can transfer for free to one other bus line or , if you use a prepaid MetroCard " gold " , to the subway . The fare is currently $ 2.75 , but depending on which MetroCard you buy , you may spend slightly less . JFK is served by five MTA bus lines , all of which have a free transfer to at least one subway line . Three of the five stop at terminal 5 : the Q3 , the Q10 , and the B15 . The others do not stop at any passenger terminal . You 'll most likely land at the wrong terminal , so you 'll have to take the AirTrain to the bus stop , but this is free of charge . Plan on at least an extra hour for this trip , compared to taking the AirTrain to Jamaica or Howard Beach . I think most people 's time is worth more that $ 5 an hour , but maybe you have additional factors to consider . See <URL> for the Queens bus map .
<URL> : 6:00 to 23:50 ( time of departure from each terminus , arrival 15 -- 20 minutes later at the end station , if I understand the automatic translation from Turkish correctly ) <URL> : 6:00 to 23:40 ( time of departure from each terminus , with an extra train from Kızılay 0:20 to Ostim 0:40 )
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
On the way to France , the <URL> ( both day and night ) has three ( official ) stops , Moûtiers , Aime-la-Plagne and Bourg-St-Maurice . On the return , it has only two stops , Moûtiers and Bourg-St-Maurice . At both of these stations , there is a special platform that can be fenced off from the rest of the French rail network . There is also a special waiting room area , which contains security , French " exit " immigration staff , and UK " entry " immigration staff . On Ski train Saturdays , these facilities are used . The rest of the time , the waiting room is closed off , and the platform fences are opened so they can be used for regular French trains . On Ski train Saturdays , UK immigration officers have to be brought in , extra security staff must be hired to run the security checks , French immigration staff have to be brought in to run the exit checks , security staff have to close all the fences/gates around the train + patrol to make sure no-one sneaks in , and other related border security activities are followed . It 's a large amount of work , and is n't cheap either ! In addition , it requires dedicated platforms that can be secured , dedicated areas to hold the security screening and immigration checks . For the other services , including the recently launched Lyon/Marseille one , there is n't the space or the money or the staff for these special dedicated facilities . As such , they run as domestic French services as fair as Lille , then all the checks are done there . I believe that Lille is used because it has the size and spare capacity , and is on the high speed line . It 'd be an epic faff to get a train from the south of France into Gare du Nord to do the checks there , and it 'd be a big detour to head via Brussels . Calais is only a small station , so there is n't really the staff or space to handle a whole train load there . The upcoming Amsterdam/Rotterdam services will also have their security + immigration done at Lille , rather than Brussels . Eurostar and SNCF have recently funded some upgrades to Lille Europe station , to increase the capacity of the security and immigration checks , along with the waiting area , in part to handle the additional load that these new services generate . At this time , it looks like all the " original " services ( such as the Disney train and the Ski train ) will retain their special security + immigration checks at their origin stations . Everything else looks to be set for the " Lille Shuffle "
On top of what has been written by @toy and @user34936 , which I can support 100 % , I would like to give you the following advice : When traveling to remoter areas in Asia ( I would count Laos into that ) , and specially if you do not do so frequently ( several times a year ) , you are risking to get Diarrhea as a minimum and intestinal parasites as a worst case scenario where you run risk of severe organ damage in the long run . While the risk is , as mentioned , highest in India , there are 2 levels of caution that go along with the amount of inconvenience you have to face to execute them : Easiest level , should prevail in most developing countries in Asia , can be ignored in Japan , mostly also in Hong Kong &amp; Singapore for example : Do not drink Tap water Do not rinse your mouth with tap water after brushing your teeth ( sounds stupid , but you always ingest some of it , and if you follow step 1 , this is a direct consequence . That 's why a lot of hotels in Asia have small bottles of water now standing next to the sink instead of in the room ) Do not eat cold street food , specially fruits , ice cream etc. . Next level , should be observed in any remote , rural area of the developing countries outside of international hotel chains and in almost all of India : Do not eat any uncooked food , such as salads Do not eat unpeeled fruits and do never eat water melons . They are sometimes injected with water to make them heavier . Do not eat anything that has to have a consistent cooling chain without unfreezing such as ice cream , imported fish etc. . Basically do not eat anything that is not served by established restaurants or hotels that you would find in a tourist guide . be very careful with ice cubes . Rather drink what has been cooled in a closed container such as cans &amp; bottles than ice cubes . The issue here is that you have to decide how much you want to reduce your flexibility in the country to avoid a light diarrhea and how much experience you have when traveling across the world in remote places . You body will build up resistance against a lot of bacteria types if ingested in small quantities . However I know a person who lived in China and other places such as Hong Kong for all their life who got a parasite in India that caused a almost 100 % kidney failure and repeated operations over the following years . Also : While asking for bottled water might become quickly expensive since the hotels try to sell you Perrier etc , asking specifically for local bottled water is often a safe but very cheap alternative . Also consider that Diarrhea as such might not bother you too much , but dehydration and other consequences of that issue might cause more trouble that might severely disrupt the trip for you .
I think you 're limited to renting a car or traveling on Greyhound . Amtrak does have a <URL> that crosses the upper parts of Montana and North Dakota but I would n't call it very useful . If you rent a car , you can save money by renting and returning the car to the same location . Returning a car to a different location is usually more expensive . Greyhound has a <URL> which can be used on certain other carriers and in Canada , if I understand correctly . A 7-day Discovery pass is $ 246 . A 14-day pass is $ 356 . As a test , I checked Billings , MT to Fargo , ND . Greyhound said that it would take 17 h 30 m on a Monday in June with one transfer ( from 12:15 to 18:45 ) . Google maps reported a travel time of 9 h 12 m by car . At 608 miles , and gas at $ 4/gallon ( likely more in the summer ) , gas would cost around $ 122 . Cheapest Greyhound ticket is $ 96 .
I 'm far from being an expert in sailing , but being a native speaker helps when searching so this is what I came across : <URL> ( PDF , 24.4 MB ) CONTENTS Introduction Sail the Ionian Sea Sail around Peloponnese and Kythira Sail around Attica and Saronikos Gulf Sail through the Cyclades Sail through the Sporades Sail the North Aegean Sea Sail around the Dodecanese Sail around Crete Discover a variety of water sports activities Useful Information It 's not very detailed , but a good starting point I reckon . Enjoy your holiday !
Update 19 July : The <URL> . By now I assume that most flights to Turkey operate as scheduled , but it is best to check before flying . You should still consider travel advice from your government . <URL> still is at the same level , with the threats now more due to terrorism than the attempted coup : The attempted coup in Turkey has failed and the situation is normalising . Localised military activity continues . Airport operations in Istanbul and Ankara are returning to normal , with additional security measures in place . Airports are very crowded . We recommend you confirm your travel arrangements before travelling to the airport . You should continue to avoid unnecessary travel , large gatherings and demonstrations . and the latest update as of today : Travellers are reminded of the high threat of terrorism in Turkey . We continue to receive information that indicates that terrorists may be planning attacks in Turkey which could take place at any time . Further attacks in urban centres are expected . It is likely some attacks will target western interests , including tourists . Due to the high threat of terrorist attack , we recommend you reconsider your need to travel to Ankara and Istanbul . Across Turkey , you should exercise heightened caution and be vigilant to your personal safety and surroundings . The level of our advice has not changed . Update 16 July : <URL> We strongly advise you to stay indoors , avoid public places , in particular demonstrations , and remain vigilant . And <URL> ( applies to citizens of all countries IMHO , emphasis mine ) : The security situation in Turkey , particularly in Ankara and Istanbul , remains tense . You should stay indoors and avoid unnecessary travel . The security situation may be fluid for some time . Ataturk international airport and Sabiha Gokcen international airport in Istanbul have resumed limited operations although delays and possibly flight diversions are likely . All inbound and outbound flights at Esenboga airport in Ankara have been cancelled until 1800 local time . You should contact your airline or travel agent for information about your travel arrangements , including connecting flights , but in the meantime suggest you avoid gathering at Ataturk Airport until confirmation of resumption of normal service . Avoid any large gatherings or demonstrations . The President has urged all citizens to show support for democracy on the streets in major cities on the evening of 16 July . Australians should avoid any such gathering . We continue to advise Australians to exercise a high degree of caution in Turkey overall and to reconsider their need to travel to Istanbul and Ankara . Higher levels apply in some , other parts of Turkey . Many airlines have cancelled flights , e.g. . <URL> Lufthansa has cancelled all flights between Frankfurt and Istanbul , as well as , all flights between Munich and Turkey for today 16 July 2016 for security reasons . Our connections between Frankfurt and Antalya , as well as , the flight v.v. Frankfurt-Bodrum will be operated as planned . US airlines are not allowed to fly in our out of Istanbul and Ankara airports as of yesterday : Per the Federal Aviation Administration 's notice to airmen ( NOTAM ) dated July 15 , 2016 , U.S. airline carriers are prohibited from flying to or from Istanbul and Ankara airports . All airline carriers , regardless of country of registry , are prohibited from flying into the United States from Turkey either directly or via third country . and see <URL> I do not have an overview but apparently some flights are going in and out of Istanbul again , mostly with Turkish Airlines . If you were scheduled to travel , contact your airline . Turkish has published <URL> Old post as of 15 July : As usual <URL> are the best source of info for flights into Istanbul . Check there for the latest info buried in discussions . Apparently as of now at least some flights of Turkish Airlines are still landing at IST while those of foreign carriers are diverted to other airports . BBC reports the airport ( IST I assume ) to be closed . Travel advice for people in Turkey would be to stay put wherever you are and keep out of trouble . As of the <URL> : The U.S. State Department said Americans in Turkey should shelter indoors .
<URL> : lockers are now available in Porto downtown at Trindade metro station - with direct connection to Porto Airport . The station is opened all the year from 06am to 01am , and the service it 's not expensive . Another link to the <URL> shows more information . Their FAQ is broken in English , but from my rough translation , it 's not necessary to reserve , they 're open from 6am to 1am , and the baggage dimensions for storage are : Small : 36x48x85 cm . Medium : 36x65x85 cm . Large : 36x99x85 cm . The prices depend on how long and how large a locker you require , and are available <URL> . It varies between 1 Euro for 1 hour for a small bag up to 6 Euros for an all day storage of a large one . At the time of writing there is just one block of lockers comprising 16 small lockers , 9 medium and 2 large , as shown in this picture ( from the aforementioned company website ) : <URL> If you are travelling with large suitcases you 'll need to either find a free large locker or try to cram the suitcase in a medium one . Note that being the only self-service luggage storage service in Porto , the lockers tend to be all occupied most of the time .
Your first point is almost universally true . Whilst there are a few onsen that allow swimming suits and the like , the vast majority do not . The only one I 've experienced was in Kagoshima , and this was because it was a small but famous onsen ; too small to segregate men and women and so Japanese yukata were permitted . As for your second point , yes , you typically wash yourself at one of several separated stalls that has a shower , a tap and often toiletries / body soap . The point of the baths themselves is for relaxation rather than to wash . The general process is : Enter the male or female changing room Deposit your clothes / watch / jewelry etc in a locker , take the key with you on a wristband or keyring Enter the main bathhouse area Wash yourself completely , remembering to rinse off all soap Enter one of the baths and enjoy On leaving , some people take a shower Return to the changing room , get dressed , then enjoy a post-onsen beverage :) In addition , many onsen will not permit those with tattoos from entering ( as tattoos once were and often still are seen as a sign of involvement with the Japanese mafia , the ' yakuza ' ) . However , you can often get round this if you only have small tattoos by applying a sticking plaster . Other than that , common sense applies . The baths are not for swimming , but for relaxing in , so treat them as such . Do n't splash around , no running , and definitely no divebombing ...
end question
start question
Where can I get the required permits for Machu Picchu and Huayna Picchu ?
Even if you 're with a tour group , you almost all enter at the same point , and will be buying tickets at the gate . It 's important to note that while there 's generally a few thousand a day at Machu Picchu , they severely restrict the numbers each day for Huayana Picchu . So if you want one of those ( 2x200 I believe ) , you need to make sure you 're on the first bus up there , or speak to your tour guide about getting there early . Fight for it if you have to - it 's totally worth it . As @Itai says , it 's steep , and take insect repellent ( never been bitten so much in my life ) but the view from the top is totally worth the climb :)
Firstly , where are you going ? You want to visit the one country or some number of them ? You should note , that there is no such thing like Schengen visa . You can only get visa to the country in Schengen . So , first of all , you must select the one country you will be most time in . Note that different countries have their own requirements to the tourists . And since you 're in Schengen , you can easily travel between countries in it without any problems . According to your question , there are a lot of types of the documents showing that you intend to return to your country of origin : If you have a good job , simply get the receipt from your bank account showing that you are not going to search the job in Schengen . If you have family , get some documents about that - there are much more chances that you will return to your home for your family . If you have any immovables , provide documents about it . Ask for a list in the embassy of the country you have chosen - there can be some more documents that count as guarantee for you to return home .
As a rule of thumb , visas are issued by independent states , while subnational entities issue entry permits . Also , as another rule of thumb , a visa is granted in advance but an entry permit is given on arrival . The Cook Islands are a dependency of New Zealand that control their own immigration ( hence the entry permits ) , but " outsource " their foreign policy to New Zealand and thus operate no overseas embassies that could grant visas . The vast majority of visitors also receive their permits on arrival , although there is a provision to apply in advance for longer stays/work permits . Some other examples of subnational entry permits : Andaman and Nicobar Islands ( India ) , Mount Athos ( Greece ) , Sarawak ( Malaysia ) ...
I can answer " What risk is there on the ICE to not getting a seat reservation ? " for the Dutch part , as I take this train every work day , without reservation . There is an electronic display above each pair of seats that says on which stretch the seat is reserved , e.g. if it says " Utrecht - Frankfurt " and you sit there when the train is in Utrecht , you are likely to be asked to move to another seat . Many of these people do show up ( but not all of them ) . There are also 6-seat rooms that have the displays besides the doors . There are also seats that say " Ggf . freigeben " . It means that the seat may be reserved , it was available for " Express Reservierung " ( do n't ask me how to do an express reservation ) . In practice you wo n't often have to stand up if you sit here , but it does happen . Many seats will also show no reservation , so it would be best to pick one of those . Most of the time , there is enough place to sit , so a reservation is n't really necessary . On some times and some days the train may be very full , mostly due to inside-Netherlands commuters like me ( we leave in Arnhem at the latest ) , and on some moments like the start of the weekend due to actual international travellers . Then you 're unlucky and will have to stand , but luckily the Bistro serves drinks ... After Arnhem , the train becomes much quieter . I do n't know if it becomes busier again after Duisburg .
Of course ! For example , as a New Zealander , while I was in the UK I decided to go to South America , and later to Central Asia . I needed vaccinations , obviously . It was as simple as going to the doctor . Of course , in many countries it will cost you money , and you 're right , it 's probably not covered by insurance . I 've also had new prescriptions filled and even gotten <URL> . Health systems are usually available to anyone , just what you end up paying may differ to the locals . And whether it 's covered by insurance is entirely dependent on your policy . ( from <URL> ) Whatever you do , if you have that yellow booklet of all your vaccinations , take that with you for them to sign and document , so that you have an official record of them . It 's come in handy for me on more than one occasion .
I did this two and a half years ago , and took a 75L pack and a day pack . My friend also had one , and the six others in our group also had backpacks plus odds and ends . There was no problem . However , the train was also only half full ( October ) . I imagine the rules are there so that in the peak season , if it 's busy they can then start enforcing them . So short answer - it depends on when you go , and what staff you get , and how full the train is :)
Update : Good news , when you load the official page , you 'll now see that they accept VISA payments . As a result , you can now buy advance tickets from outside of Peru directly with the website . However , there are still many other ways to do this . I 'd recommend <URL> for sources on how to do it . There are numerous online tour agencies that you can pay to get you tickets . Once you 're in Cusco , you can buy a tour then if you 're doing one of the trails . Once you 're in Aguas Calientes ( final stop on the train route ) , you can buy tickets there . You can even buy tickets at the last second at the gate when you arrive at Machu Picchu . So do n't despair , there are plenty of other ways to achive your dream of going :)
G Adventures provide a lot of South American tours . They also monitor any safety updates in that region for their travellers . Here 's a timeline of updates and safety info within the last few months : <URL>
IGN produces several series of maps covering the whole of France . For hiking , I always use TOP 25 maps ( 1:25000 scale ) . You can <URL> ( Grenoble is <URL> ) , have them print a specific area on demand ( only slightly more expensive and convenient if you want an area that is in between two maps of the regular series ) or <URL> ( the system had many problems at the beginning and it is still somewhat difficult to get around but it 's all there ) . I do n't know about using the site on the go or printing/downloading , I always get paper maps before serious hikes . There are also two other options that I never used . TOP 100 are less detailed but I believe that they have more touristic information ( trails , mountain huts , it 's all there on the TOP 25 maps of course but it 's so detailed that you sometimes need more effort to figure things out ) . TOP 75 maps are new and especially designed for hiking . Unlike the other two , they are not available for the whole country but there is one covering <URL> . Obviously it 's not online but other than that , it could be a good choice for your trip . There are also apparently some mobile applications ( more information in French <URL> and <URL> ) allowing you to download these data and use them on a GPS/mobile device but I never tried any of them .
Thanks to a tip from my hotel , I 've discovered there is somewhere open in the mean time - <URL> . The Msheireb Enrichment Centre is located on a medium sized barge moored off the Corniche , just west of the Sheraton Hotel ( the triangular pyramid shaped hotel near the north eastern edge of the Corniche ) The exhibition is sponsored by Msheireb Properties , who 've apparently done lots of building works around Doha . No-one seems to know if it 'll stay long term , or close when the National Museum re-opens , but for now it 's your best bet for a short visit to learn about Qatar 's history and culture ! ( It 's at the other end of the Corniche from the Museum of Islamic Art , but there are public buses running round the Corniche you can take mostly between the two , if you do n't fancy the 4.5 km seafront walk )
Nobody will be offended . It is a common practice among children to search for amber or shells . However I would not expect too much . Amber can be easily mistaken with other rocks and if you ever find something it would be rather of a small size . The beaches along the whole coast are easily accessible and I can hardly believe in the existence of hot spots .
You do n't need a passport to fly within the US . As long as you have your driver 's license , that is enough to get you through TSA check points . It 's when you travel outside the US that you will need your passport . Here 's a list of acceptable IDs from the official TSA website : <URL>
<URL> tastes good to me , especially their Tiramisu line . I bought it in Thailand , but it 's made in Malaysia , so it should be widely available .
There is only one location that checks all your boxes , and no others come close : Istanbul . The west part of the city ( its historical center ) is considered to be in Europe , the part on the eastern side of the Bosphorus strait is in Asia . There is a bridge that you can drive over , the city is extremely scenic with many beautiful mosques and the Hagia Sophia , and it does n't get much more historically significant ; it was the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire , of Byzantium , and of the Ottoman Empire . Other than that , the border between Europe and Asia is ill-defined and although the concept of the border is of historical significance , there wo n't be much of a historically significant or even visible physical border on the ground . The usual convention is that the border runs along the Caucasus and Ural mountain ranges , mostly in Russia , but I do n't think you 'll find nice marked crossing points there . Some people opine that Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus is also on the border , but according to <URL> it 's actually north of the Caucasus watershed that is usually used as the border . It 's Europe 's highest mountain at 5642m , relatively easy to climb and some scientists have actually managed to get to the summit with a Land Rover ( see the article ) , but I do n't think it qualifies ... Edit : actually it is apparently wrong to say that the border is invisible elsewhere -- in the Urals there seem to be some monuments marking it , see e.g. <URL> , which has pictures of a few of them west of Yekaterinburg .
Starting in October 2014 , <URL> . India currently offers visa-on-arrival to tourists from only 11 countries , including Finland , Singapore and Japan . A quote from their Planning Minister on the matter : " We have decided to extend the visa-on-arrival facility to tourists from 180 nations . It will take five to six months for the respective departments to put the required infrastructure in place . We hope to implement this from the next tourist session beginning October , " The electronic visa-on-arrival will be available at 26 major airports in India and would be valid for 30 days from the date of the tourist 's arrival in India . Note , however , that this does not include all countries - for example , nationals from Pakistan , Sudan , Afghanistan , Iran , Iraq , Nigeria , Sri Lanka and Somalia still can not get visas on arrival .
According to <URL> : Wild camping , or use of camping accommodation outside the authorized campsites is strictly forbidden , with serious penalties ( By Law 2160/93 , article 4 and By Law 2741/99 article 21 ) . But I would n't take it too seriously since it is a site that lists all official camping sites . So they 're clearly interested that no one does wild camping . According to another <URL> ( this time only in German ) , free camping is not allowed but especially on Greek islands is widely accepted . You should just not camp inside villages . Wild-Campen ist eigentlich verboten , wird aber häufig auf kleineren Inseln toleriert . Wenn man es auf einen Versuch ankommen lässt , hat man außerhalb von Ortschaften meist mehr Glück . As an additional hint , I read in my message boards that one night should n't be a problem , but you should not stay more than one night in the same place . And if there is an official campsite just next to your free camping place , you will probably get more problems than in more remote areas .
Too late , but for future reference and other people who are wondering : I celebrated near Skövde . Every place we visited or passed on a roadtrip after midsommar had a midsommarstång , so you can go to basically any city . Examples near Copenhagen/Lund are Falsterbö and Vikhög . Pick a city , and search google images for " cityname midsommar " , to see where they celebrate , as it differs in every place ( some use a park in the village , others a castle , some might be on a beach , ... ) . So pick a place and see if you can reach it by public transport . Or pick a place you can reach , and see if it 's good for you . Since most people do n't celebrate in a city , but rather in a small town , a small village does n't mean the festivities will be small . Looking at footage from previous years should give a good impression about how and where it 's celebrated in a given town .
The capsules from Soyuz - Apollo flight used to be and Apollo 11 command module is at the <URL> . A quick search also gives a list of all remaining <URL> based on that there is only one in Europe in London .
You can get Biometrics for a Canadian Visa done at any USCIS Application Support Center ( ASC ) . The list of <URL> . You can find the instructions for attending an ASC on the <URL> - scroll down to the section entitled " If applying from within the United States "
Exactly what Mark Mayo said , just check Google next time or go to Delhi 's main bazaar and ask in any of the music instrument shops , most of them offer sitar lessons and they all provide sitars for it . Here is a one that was recommended by a fellow traveler when I mentioned this question over dinner : Dhingra Musicals Rajat is giving the lessons in a room just above his shop and it is located at Main Bazaar in Paharganj , shop No. 1086 e-mail : dhingra.sons@yahoo.co.in Cell : 9911043900 or 9818536666 One lesson is 700 Rp and if you want to take 10 , it will be 3750 Rp but you can , of course , <URL> . You can buy a small sitar for 2600 Rp and a big one for around 6500 Rp .
end question
start question
How do Hostels work in Europe ?
Firstly , I have slept in plenty of hostels in the UK , without using a YHA card . Any hostel on HostelWorld or <URL> will let you stay there without any loyalty cards . Your best bet is to follow this approach : Go to Hostelbookers ( often cheaper than Hostelworld ) . Choose country , city , and dates . Look at the ones available . Generally they have dorms ( multiple people in a room ) from 3-30 ( ! ) , depending on the hostel . Evaluate based on amenities , price , reviews and the type - some are party hostels ( generally the atmosphere rating is high then ) , some are more low key and friendly . Check for things like - are families welcome ( you may not want kids around ) , does it have a bar ( often louder and drunker ) , and so on . If it 's a HI Hostel ( Hostelling International ) or a YHA one , you can get discount cards for those groups . Often however , you can negotiate on arrival if it 's not too busy , or ask for a discount for multiple nights - generally for smaller or owner-operated hostels . Book ahead , especially in summer - if you have a limited selection , some towns sell out fast at certain times , when festivals are on , for example . Sometimes you 'll start to see similar hostels - chains - in different cities ( eg The Point hostels in South America ) . This gives you an idea as to the standards and conditions and style of the hostel ( also Base in New Zealand , and Wombats in much of Central Europe - Austria and Germany ) . You sometimes get discounts for staying at the same chain - loyalty if you will . The Point used to give free drinks and a t-shirt . Go figure . Of your country list , one exception is Croatia . There are still hostels , but if you go to the Plitvice National Park , there are entire streets near the entrance with normal homes . They have signs outside with either ' no room ' , or a price - and you can rent a room in a house for a night . It was fantastic , private , and very reasonable .
Yes , at least in Germany there are two kinds of " hostels " : The first kind of hostel and the one generally meant by " hostel " is the youth hostel ( Jugendherberge ) which is managed by the DJH . You need to buy a member card ( also available on the fly ) to stay there and if you are over 27 , you must pay the full price ( which is still very low for a year ~ 15 $ ) . You are also less ranked than young people so if the house has many young visitors you may not get a room . Additional info : In Bavaria , a state of Germany , it was forbidden until 2005 to stay at a youth hostel if you were over 27 . Perhaps your friend comes from there ? The other " hostels " are meant for backpackers and do not need a card as they are private . Both hostels are not so cheap anymore , I have found pensions and hotel rooms with much more comfort which were only slightly more expensive . So look out for room prices .
In all the countries you have listed , soy milk is easy enough to find ; most supermarkets will sell it . In France , you should be able to find it in Super U , Auchan , and Carrefour , and maybe in some Aldi and Lidl too if they 're big enough . In Switzerland , I got many links to Reform Haus ; you can find those in most of the northern part of the country . In Germany , most ( if not all ) supermarkets will have it , even smaller ones . Same in Italy ; you 'll find it with the boxed milk section , or the refrigerated aisle , along with other soy products . And in the UK , you should n't have to worry , even small Co-operative or Spar stores will have it sometimes . And if you ever ca n't find it in those , you can try Asian stores . Those are a pretty safe bet . Basically : Yes , soy milk is pretty easy to find in Western Europe .
Roaming in Europe with GSM phones generally works very well . I do n't have experience with this particular combination but I have done it across various countries ( including France with a T-mobile subscription from another country than the US ) and never had a problem placing a call or sending a SMS ( I had trouble with MMS but who cares about MMS today ? ) . I also think data coverage is generally good in Western Europe , although personally I tend to turn it off and rely on wifi networks as data roaming used to be quite expensive . <URL> provides some details applicable to your specific scenario . It also confirms that the main roaming partner in France is Orange . It 's the remnant of the historical telecom state monopoly and the biggest network in France so I would n't worry about coverage . The main question is what your plan covers and how much it will cost you . As far as I can tell , what you get for free is 2G technologies and that 's quite slow . You have to pay more for " high-speed " data ( see the post above , the <URL> and also these reports on <URL> and <URL> ) . Thus , I would n't expect much from the free data roaming .
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
The first foreign language in all of Europe is English . In all tourist destinations you will find people speaking it , often enough of them that you might think everybody in the country can communicate in English . In a few months you will not have time to learn other languages , but try to learn the local version , for each of the languages , of ' good morning/day ' ' thank you ' and ' goodbye ' and use them with a smile . The mistake most people make is trying to do too much in too short a time . When I see your list of 5 countries I hope you have 5 weeks at least . Typically traveling between countries costs a day when traveling by train , most of a day when flying and leaving you too tired to do sight seeing in what will be left of the day . A day in Greece will cost you 3 days of your vacation , one to travel each way and one to sight see . Get out a good travel guide , libraries stock them and you will often find them in second hand book stores , and work out what you really want to see and whether it is worth it to miss two full days sight seeing for the time you have there . Each of the countries you mention uses the euro . Often the cheapest way to get euros is to use the ATM wherever you are . How much you pay , and whether you need to pay at all , depends on the contract you have with your bank . Contact your bank and find out whether your bank card is ready for use abroad and tell them that you will be using it in Europe , ( and tell them you arrive the day before you actually do , as some forget the time difference and have you ' arrive ' half a day after you actually do , ) and get them to tell you how much each use will cost . Some banks allow you to do all this online , but if in doubt , just talk with a real person of your bank . Your own bank should be able to get you euros to start you off , $ 200 would be a good amount , otherwise the exchange office at the airport even though it might be a bit more expensive , or the ATM in the arrival airport . Do carry some of your own money , like $ 200 , in case your card fails or you have other problems , cash exchanges are more expensive than getting money out of the ATM but having real money will always work better than money in a bank you can not reach . And if you do have a credit card , bring it . The best will be if it has pin and chip , but any CC will be useful in some cases .
Have n't been to Oregon but the way it works in New Jersey where law is the same is as follows : You pull up to the gas station . You wait in the car until an attendant comes . You give him Cash and he pumps the gas . Credit card behavior vary depending on the types of pumps installed . In some gas stations pumps can not be activated unless an attendant uses his own card to activate the pump . In case the pump can be activated by your own credit card you can pump your own gas and noone will tell you anything about it . One thing to keep in mind though that the register for the gas is usually kept separate from the convenience store so if you decide to pay cash you will need an attendant . Tipping in this case is absolutely your choice . In New Jersey it 's not a requirement or recommendation but if you choose to do it . Do it . Technically under the law in both states it is illegal though I have not seen it enforced . <URL> but if you are concerned about <URL> . Makes for an interesting read . :)
In Germany , the Zoos of <URL> and <URL> have Dolphin exhibits/shows ( another one in [ Münster ] will be shut down this fall ) . The one in Nürnberg is probably closest to you and also seems to be the largest . But note that there 's considerable controversity about whether keeping Dolphins in indoor pools constitutes animal abuse , given that even the largest pools are tiny in comparison with their natural movement habits .
Right , with a bit of research , I 've put the following together . Modern Japanese mobile phones ( 携帯電話 keitai denwa or just keitai ) tend to operate on unique cellular standards not always compatible with the rest of the world . For instance , most Japanese 2G mobile phones operate on the Personal Digital Cellular ( PDC ) standard , which was developed and is used exclusively in Japan . In a nutshell : A lot of 2G phones ( GSM , etc ) from the rest of the world do not work in Japan . Even Quad-band GSM phones are useless . As AU switches its CDMA network to " new " 800MHz ( used in the rest of the world ) , foreign CDMA phones will be able to be used in Japan for roaming purposes . However , the switchover is still in progress , so only use this if staying in Tokyo or Osaka . 3G phones using the UMTS/WCDMA2100 standard and equipped with a 3G SIM card will most likely work . If your phone is up to spec , double-check with your carrier if they have a roaming agreement with either SoftBank or NTT DoCoMo . Coverage is generally excellent , unless you are heading to some remote mountainous areas . If you have no 3G phone but still have a 3G-compatible SIM card , you can rent a 3G phone in Japan and slot in your card , allowing you to keep your home phone number in Japan . Carrier restrictions may apply : for instance , O2-UK ( operating in Japan via NTT DoCoMo ) requires you to dial 111 # , wait for a callback ; then , dial the actual number you wish to connect . Be sure to double-check with your network provider before departing . GSM-only SIMs are issued by providers that do n't have their own 3G network . If your home operator have no 3G network , or if you got your phone before their 3G network was introduced , this may apply to you . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . USIM cards are issued by providers that have a 3G network or plan to introduce one . Any European who got their SIM card after 2003 has one of these . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . Data roaming works as well ( subject to the above restrictions ) , allowing you to use wireless internet on your phone ( although it can be expensive ! ) . Google Maps on your phone can be invaluable ( although note that tower positioning does not work ) . Short visits For a short visit , your cheapest option for mobile access is to rent a phone . A number of companies provide this service . Rental rates and call charges vary , the best one can depend on how long you are renting and how much you will call . Beware of " free " rental as there is a catch : usually , there are very high call charges . Incoming calls are free in Japan . Mobal Communications Inc. . Free rental ( meaning there is no expense unless you actually call someone ) . ¥ 240/min domestic and international . Very expensive ( around $ 3 ) - have people call you instead , since incoming calls are free . Be careful not to lose the phone or the charger as the company charges horrendous amounts . Rentafone Japan ¥ 3,900 up to one week , then ¥ 300/day . Shipping included . ¥ 35/min ~ domestic . USA ¥ 45/min . ¥ 300 for unlimited emailing . You can also use your SIM in the phones . Offers customers a choice of phones . Japan Mobile Rental ¥ 1,200 per day for unlimited broadband internet Connect up to 5 devices Install Skype on your PC or phone and take advantage of cheap international calling rates Use in virtually any place in Japan Pick-up at our Narita or Kansai Airport counters , or at your hotel . SoftBank Global Rental ¥ 250/day ; SIM card : ¥ 105/day . * ¥ 105/min domestic . USA ¥ 105/min . Incoming calls are free . iPhone SIM Rental ( 3GS/4 ) is available . ¥ 1,500 per day for iPhone unlimited data communications . MyJapanPhone " Free rental " for the first week , but you must pay for shipping at rather high rates working out at at least $ 30 . After that $ 2/day . $ 0.70 / min domestic . USA $ 0.90 / min . Incoming calls are free . Extra $ 10 use email . Service tax of 15 % added to final bill . Run from the US by the people who run Panda Phone ( Chinese phone rental ) . Telecom Square ¥ 525/day . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 800-1800 if you want the phone delivered . . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 100/min ( daytime ) . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . go mobile ¥ 2,995 / week with 15 free minutes , plus ¥ 1,000 for shipping . ¥ 85/min domestic . International ¥ 100/min . Incoming calls are free . Final credit card charge can be up to 2 months after return . Inphonix ¥ 315/day ( rental fee waived for ANA passengers ) . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 1,575 if you want the phone delivered . ¥ 120/min domestic . International ¥ 150/min . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . Air 's ¥ 200/day ¥ 100/min domestic ( NO international calls ) or ¥ 160/min omestic and international . Incoming calls are free . Mobile Phone Japan ¥ 2,900 up to one week / ¥ 5,600 up to two weeks . Shipping included . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 78/min . Prepaid phones - you need to buy a top-up car
It very much depends on the hostel . Some provide amazing kitchens with multiple ovens , fridges and every utensil you can imagine . Others require a cash deposit to use pots , cutlery etc. . Generally , no , you do n't need to bring if it 's a highly rated hostel on hostelbookers or hostelworld - read the reviews and if there 's a " great kitchen " comment , it 's a good sign . The lower end ones . . sometimes are lacking a bit in facilities . Some really rough ones have n't even had kitchens available for use . The reviews are your friend - even if you do n't book on the sites , it 's handy to look through for comments about what you want - be it wifi , a kitchen , or warnings about bedbugs .
If your phone charger , and your laptop are relatively new , they should work in Europe as-is , so you only need to bring the power plug adapter . I 've never seen a single-voltage phone/laptop charger in more than ten years . Razor however is different . Even if it says 110/240 , it still might not work due to frequency difference ( i.e. it will work in South Korea with 230V/60Hz , but might not work in France with 220V/50Hz ) . I had a Philips razor which was like that . Note that " razor outlets " provided in bathroom hotels rarely change frequency , only the voltage .
You could still use your iPhone , buy apps that work offline for maps , city guides , etc. , try to find Wifi for the rest including Skype calls back home and limit expensive roaming calls to a minimum . It 's obviously less comfortable than having unlimited Internet everywhere but it 's easy to set up ( compared to other solutions like unlocking/buying pay-as-you go SIM card or buying some secondary phone ) and still lets you use some of the iPhone 's functionality .
The answer depends very much on where you go . Backpacking/interrailing is quite popular in Europe , and many hostels will be full . Depending on your budget , it 's probably possible to do as you describe , but at two costs : You will lose money . If hostels are booked out you might be forced to book into a more expensive hotel ( perhaps even a business hotel ) . You will lose time . It might be a while before you have found a place for the night ...
I am afraid there is no temporary ( nonimmigrant ) visa that allows you to be a tourist and work at the same time ( except for H-1B , H-2B ) , and by work I mean getting paid by any US employer . As a Dutch citizen , you can enter under the visa waiver program which allows you enter for tourism/business/medical reasons only . You will not be allowed to work . To work in the US temporarily you need to have a H-1B visa , to obtain that you need to have a job offer from a US employer . If you managed to get that then you are allowed to work with this employer only and changing the employer is another story . So I do not think this fits your needs . Regarding WWOOF , their page makes it clear that <URL> . Anyway , since WWOOF is not a paid work neither volunteering it will be ok to become a WWOOFer with your tourist visa , according to their website : WWOOF is an opportunity to visit farms affiliated with our network for a cultural and educational exchange . Most people outside the United States who come WWOOFing use a holiday or tourist visa . Although many of the hosts on our network are associated with organic lifestyles and sustainability , it is important to note that persons associated with WWOOF-USA are travelers experiencing a wide variety of sustainable living situations and are not " workers " or " working " for wages or other remuneration in the United States . Bottom line , you need to change your plans a little , removing the " working in restaurants " part will make your trip possible and legal with a tourist visa , other option would be obtaining an immigrant visa which takes time and not as easy as nonimmigrant visa . For more information : <URL> .
I always like finding public libraries when I travel , for different purposes . One of them is indeed to enjoy this free , accessible and quiet environment . They also have toilet , often a water source to refill your bottle , and they 're warm ( useful when you have a long bus connection in winter ) . Most libraries often offer free wifi to non-members , paid access to copiers . Often they have computers with restricted access to their members , as well as scanners/printers . One drawback is that they might refuse you to get in with a large or heavy bag , but may offer lockers to store them . Finally , one advantage is they have books :) and resources which could be useful to find a travel guidebook , maps or events near you .
Since I got an answer to my inquiry to eurail/interrail and it is too long to post in a comment I will put it here as an answer : Thank you for your email to Eurail.Com Customer Service . Yes , as a rail passenger , you are entitled to several rights according to the European Union Law . You can find more information on the page of the European Commission : <URL> You can also find the European Union regulations on : <URL> Since the Eurail Pass entitles you to use the train in Europe , you are of course protected by the EU law when you will be traveling with your Eurail Pass . I believe this boils down to the same regulations and rules that was stated in the original question , but I did not have time to go through it all to make sure . However I do find the links provided by the eurail/interrail customer service to be a lot easier to read than the actual regulation texts , which is why I have posted them here . Also note that the first link also has maritime and air travel rights information .
At the entrance of a carpool lane , a sign always indicates how many people are required in each vehicle to be eligible , since situations sometimes vary . The sign can say " CARPOOL ONLY - 2 OR MORE PERSONS PER VEHICLE " In Los Angeles area , nearly all carpool lanes have a minimum of 2 passengers . I only have seen one case in which three passengers were required . At the time of my visit in 2009 , the freeway heading east of Union Station to El Monte had passenger requirements that depended on the time and day of week . In normal hours , 2 passengers were enough ; in weekday posted rush hour times , the requirement was 3 passengers . Be careful in the area : now , there is a new system called <URL> running on I-10 and I-110 freeways . The concept is that people not eligible to enter the lane may buy their way in by paying a congestion-priced toll , instead of getting a fine . Toll collection happens electronically , and uses a compulsory transponder . Legitimate carpoolers who used to simply drive through the lane are now required to have the transponder on ExpressLanes , even if no toll is charged for them . The transponder has a switch to indicate the number of occupants . Other freeways still have the " classic " carpool lanes .
Find out what car rental companies are available at your destination , then call/email them to ask . Try to ensure whoever you ask checks policy rather than just answering what they think is right - because you may find whoever is at the desk on the day you collect has a different idea , and it could be important to show them the correct answer . I 'd also be keen to check if the law of the countries you intened to drive in are happy with this arrangement . In some European countries you can be compelled to hand over your license when stopped by law enforcement and there is of course the possibility you get into an incident of some form . It could be problematic if it turns out that you were breaking the law with a driving license not in your legal name .
Yes . HiHostels has not one , but two hostels in Dubai . They 're not terribly imaginatively named , but : <URL> <URL> You do n't need to be an HI member to stay there , but you do get a discount if you are one .
Working on a Standard Visitor Visa <URL> You ca n't : do paid or unpaid work live in the UK for long periods of time through frequent visits get public funds marry or register a civil partnership , or give notice of marriage or civil partnership Similarly , <URL> . Working in the UK To work in the UK you 'll have to apply for <URL> . <URL> , provided : You do n't need a visa if you 're coming to the UK for activities allowed under the following visas : a <URL> - eg if you 're coming to the UK for conferences , meetings , training , academic research or a sabbatical a <URL> ( you must have been invited to the UK because of your expertise ) - you can only stay for up to 1 month However , you should bring <URL> to show at the border .
end question
start question
What are the best seat places to choose inside an international flight for economy class ?
This is a very difficult question to answer in general , because different airlines have different seating configurations , seat pitches , etc. . The best thing to do is to check out sites dedicated to airline seating plans , such as : <URL> ( by far one of the most popular ones ) <URL> <URL> All of these sites are built on a user-submitted database + aircraft seat plan data on what the best seats in an airplane are , according to aircraft type , passenger class , short/long haul sectors etc. . I see that you 've already checked SeatGuru ; beyond that , you may also want to check one of the others ones to see if SeatGuru 's missed out anything . Usually , they 're pretty standard . For economy class , unless you have extra legroom or reduced recline or proximity to galleys / toilets , there literally is n't much that distinguishes one seat from another . After that , it all boils down to personal choices . I usually like aisle seats for extra legroom . The back of an airplane will experience more G-force during ascents , so some people prefer seats towards the front of the aircraft . And so on . Everyone likes extra legroom , but as an economy class passenger even if you check-in online , chances are you wo n't get those seats on long haul flights because many airlines open up online check-in for those in higher frequent flyer tiers earlier . This gets easier to snag if you 're a solo traveller because it 's much more likely to find singleton seats later in the checkin process . When travelling with four people , on your flight the middle row will allow you all to sit together . If you want two window seats , then it 's going to be quite awkward if you plan to talk during the journey . My advice ? It 's a long haul flight . People around you wo n't like people chatting . Tune in to the in-flight entertainment system , read a book , or just zone out on any seat you get .
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
I lived in London for four years . Perhaps I just did n't appreciate it , but I ca n't say I really was that aware of the class system on a day-to-day basis . Sure , you were aware that in Peckham in South London there tended to be a lower socio-economic ' category ' of people than say , Kensington . And yes in Mayfair there were the private members ' clubs and the like . And certainly the race day events tended to attract certain people . However , I , and others like myself who were there for a few years ( from NZ , Aus , South Africa , Canada and more ) did n't see it as a limiting factor . If we wanted to go to the races , we would , and just dress up for the occasion . Bond Street is just a place to shop , the prices are higher , is all . Nothing stopping you strolling along and having a look . It 's funny , every so often a comment would crop up about it . Someone at work would make a comment about not taking the bus because they were n't poor enough to need it ( or the tube ) . Yet , the current Mayor of London bikes to work , and the previous Mayor used to take the tube ( still does , last I checked ) . And most of us Kiwis or Aussies etc , whether from rich or poor backgrounds - we 'll take buses , tubes without hesitation - they 're quicker , convenient , and driving in London is awful . ' Class ' certainly did n't stop me getting into the Buckingham Palace garden tea party :) In general , the UK has become ( well , London , but other cities more and more as well ) so cosmopolitan and multicultural that in some facets of society , the class system has all but melted away . That 's not to say that some people do n't still hold it true and fast and insist on it and campaign against it when a fast food restaurant wants to open in Highbury ( it 'll lower their class somehow ? ) , but on the whole , most people you meet are welcoming no matter your background . As some people have said , in London - nobody 's a foreigner , because everyone 's a foreigner !
The fare basis is the airline 's identifier of your exact air fare . This is usually an impenetrable looking 7-to-8 letter string like . The extended version of this is the fare construction , which adds in key details like what flight from where to where this air fare is for . The fare class is simply the first letter of the fare basis , which identifies <URL> and often maps directly to how many frequent flyer miles you 'll get for the flight . This is also known as booking class or , confusingly , ticket class . Finally , travel class is the class of the physical seat you end up in on the plane : first , business , premium economy , economy , etc. . An illustrated example of all four for the same ticket , from long to short : Fare construction : ( Cape Town on Turkish Airways transfer at Istanbul on Turkish Airways to New York City $ 406.06 for fare basis TA2PXOW ... ) Fare basis : Fare class : , <URL> Travel class : Economy
As a tall person with an ideal weight , you should n't worry about the width of the seat . What you should worry about is the pitch of the seat , which will give you a better idea of the leg room . If you wonder <URL> : Seat Pitch is the distance from any point on one seat to the exact same point on the seat in front or behind it . While it is not the exact equivalent of " legroom " , it does give a very good approximation of how much seat room you should expect . Bottom line : the more seat pitch the better . China airline 's 777 in economy has a seat pitch of a 32 " , which is pretty standard in many regular airlines around the world ( ± 1 " ) . Is it comfortable ? not really for a guy your height , but almost all other airlines have similar seat sizes and your best option is to get a seat in the emergency exit row where leg room is much better . Other option would be upgrading yourself to premium economy or business .
I do agree with <URL> that there is no single resource for bus travel , so I toyed with the idea of creating one . Thinking about what it would take and how to do this I realized , it is a much too big project for one person . So unless there is a group or whole community working on it in a Wiki style it would not work . So I discarded the idea . However when thinking about the content for the site I remembered that the <URL> guides usually have a pretty good section on bus transport . I looked in some of my single country guides and then compared that to what they have online . It turns out they have a decent bus transport section for each country . So by going to www.lonelyplanet.com/countryname/transport/getting-around and then to the ' Bus &amp; tram ' section you get a lot of useful information on traveling on buses in that country . It is not perfect , but it is a good start .
The reason why airlines implement a policy of asking overweight people to get two seats is an air safety issue of whether they can be strapped in properly . The guideline used for this is whether a passenger can fit between the armrests . If a passenger requires two seats , then the policy differs from airline-to-airline if/what the passenger should be charged for it . On London to Sweden flights , British Airways flies Airbus A319/A320 -100 / 200 aircraft with <URL> ( " World Traveller Plus " ) . Premium economy is not as expensive as business class and if you have frequent flyer points , you may be able to get the upgrade cheap . <URL> depending on which flight you take with no difference in business class . <URL> as BA , and <URL> - the difference is that seat pitch ( distance ) is a good 4-5 " less than ' full-cost ' airlines . If that 's not a concern , buying two seats on a budget airline will be cheaper . EDIT : BA does not offer premium economy class for short-haul flights .
Your best bet is to travel on Thanksgiving Day ( Thursday ) -- the airports wo n't be too crowded then , and fares are usually substantially cheaper . Tuesday might also be a cheap day , but try to avoid Wednesday at all costs -- it is one of the busiest travel days of the year in the US , if not the most . Since most people are traveling home to be with their families , good hotel deals should be much easier to find in Las Vegas than LA or SF . In most US cities , things will be pretty dead on Thanksgiving Day . Most stores and restaurants close early if they open at all , although I know from family traditions that movie theaters are open ( and popular ) after the early Thanksgiving Day feast . Just about everything is open extremely early ( ~ 5 AM in many cases ) the next day for Black Friday , the most popular shopping day of the year . Avoid the stores on that day , unless you 're looking to score some really cheap deals or you 're the kind of person that likes to witness complete chaos firsthand . And if you do somehow manage to arrive by Wednesday evening , that is a great " going-out " night as everyone hits the bars to let off steam before dealing with their families for the next four days .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
There are three common situations : The country you are departing has outbound passport control Once you cross the line you have officially left the country as far as immigration is concerned . You must pass through immigration to exit this area back to the public spaces . In some cases , like Vancouver , it 's not really " passport control " . It 's just a guy who checks your boarding pass and tells you that you can not return this way ( he has no authority other than calling someone else who does ) . But it 's effectively the same thing . Canadian immigration gets passenger lists from the airlines and does n't bother you on the way out . The country you are traveling to has remote pre-clearance . The USA does this from Canada and Shannon , Ireland . Once you cross the line you have officially departed the current country and entered the destination country as far as immigration is concerned . You may travel directly to your destination , usually without any further interactions of any kind with immigration or airport security ( rather dependent on the gate arrangements at transfer airports ) . The country you are departing does not have outbound passport control Or at least not at this departure point . You mix with other international and domestic travelers and board your departing vessel . You are considered to have departed when you pass the boarding gate . Note the repeated use of " as far as immigration is concerned " and " considered to have departed " . The departure lounge is not an embassy , it is still the sovereign soil of the departure country and if the local police want you for anything they will just walk in and grab you . If the American pre-clearance staff object they will be bluntly told to shut up and get out of the way or get arrested themselves for obstruction ( pre-clearance staff are not diplomats ) . In all the above cases , once you are " considered to have departed " you have met any immigration limits you may have . If you do this one minute before midnight on the day your visa expires you will not be considered to be overstaying . If your flight/ship/bus / train is cancelled you will usually get a short-term readmission as you did " leave " and the fact that you are still here is beyond your control . if immigration really wants you to leave you might even get a free hotel room for the night . Flights in the Schengen zone are considered to be domestic flights - there is no passport control . Tax easements ( duty-free shopping ) have more to do with your intentions than position within the airport . I 've been to airports where the duty-free shops are in the public spaces . You show your boarding pass , buy what you want , and it 's delivered to your departure gate ( which also nicely bypasses security ) . If you do n't have a suitable boarding pass you simply pay the tax-in price . If the airport construction allows it ( Heathrow for example ) transiting passengers remain in the international area and have no interactions with immigration . This is purely a convenience and cost-saving measure . If you are wanted by the police for something serious they can and will arrest you in the international concourse . If , in this example , the UK does not wish to admit you for any reason you are fine here as you do not officially enter the UK . Passengers transiting between airports ( Heathrow - > Gatwick happens a lot ) DO require admission to the UK , which is occasionally denied . This means you go back to your departure point rather than your destination . Legal rights of the departure country extend up to the time the airplane 's wheels leave the ground ( not sure about ships ) . If you punch out the cabin crew while taxiing to the runway , the local police will be called . Do it after takeoff and it 's really the pilot 's choice to return and land or fly to the destination - legal authority passes to the air carrier 's country of registration after takeoff but the pilot can choose to accept the local authorities rather than carry a problem for 10 hours . If the departure country 's authorities decide they want to invite you in for tea and biscuits after takeoff , they can request that the airplane return or land at another airport in the same country . If the pilot refuses they either let you go or shoot the plane down .
3 hours should be fine , especially if you 're flying on a major airline , since they fly domestic flights out of the same terminal as international flights ( T3 ) . Only LCCs ( SpiceJet , Indigo , GoAir ) use T1 . If you do need to transfer , figure on 1 hour for customs and immigration , and assume you need to check in one hour early , which leaves you an hour -- sufficient , but does n't leave you a whole lot of buffer if something/anything goes wrong . Shuttle buses run <URL> , or if you 're in a pinch you can take a taxi ( ~ 15 min ) . In any case , if it 's not too late , I 'd recommend booking both your international and domestic flights on the same ticket , that way you 're covered if you miss the connection . Fog regularly causes <URL> at DEL , especially in winter .
The person calling you will be calling your Australian number , so they will be charged whatever they normally pay for a call to Australia . As you are roaming , you will be charged for receiving the call at whatever your roaming rate is . In most cases , the call itself will actually route via Australia and back to wherever you are ! It 's possible that if your phone is roaming onto the same network as the person that 's calling you is on that the call will route locally , but there 's no guarantee . The reverse case is very different . If you call a number in the country that you are in then you will normally pay a lower rate to make the call than it costs for you to receive a call , and the person you call will only pay their standard rate for an incoming call ( which is free is many/most countries ) . Obviously the exact costs will depend upon your provider and what they charge for calls whilst roaming , but in most cases it 'll be cheaper for you to call someone in-country than for them to call you . Depending on how long you 're going to be there , the best option is often to buy a pre-paid SIM in the country your visiting . You 'll get a local country number that people can call you on , and you wo n't pay high roaming costs for calls that you make .
An exhibit featuring the official high-fidelity replica , <URL> ( called Explorer when it was in Florida ) , atop the 747 shuttle carrier aircraft , is currently under construction <URL> at the Johnson Space Center in Houston . The <URL> states that Guests can take the elevator to the top to first enter the Independence using a timed-ticketing system . The first stop is be the flight deck , where guests can see how the astronauts piloted the orbiter through missions . One floor down , guests will see how cramped living conditions were on the mid-deck and walk out into the payload bay to see an actual flown artifact ... . Down one more level , guests enter shuttle carrier aircraft NASA 905 , the largest artifact from the Space Shuttle Program on display . Your next best bet is the brand-new <URL> at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton , Ohio , which features the Crew Compartment Trainer , a life-sized mockup . The exhibit " allows visitors to experience the size and shape of an actual space shuttle orbiter by entering the payload bay and looking into the flight deck and mid-deck levels . " My third suggestion would be the <URL> on display at the Museum of Flight in Seattle , Washington . It does not have the wings , but as its name indicates is a full-sized mockup of the fuselage that was used for astronaut training purposes . <URL> are available for a fee on weekends and public holidays . Other simulators are in the possession of the <URL> in North Florida , the Adler Planetarium in Chicago , and as noted by Kate Gregory , Texas A&amp;M University ; however , it is not clear as of February 2016 if any of these are accessible to the public . Shuttle Inspiration , a life-sized mockup of wood and plastic built by Rockwell in 1972 for its official proposal to build the shuttle , is now owned by the City of Downey , California . There are <URL> around it , but <URL> indicate it is being restored in preparation for a tour . I remember climbing on it on a science day for the Boy Scouts way back in the 1980s ; it gives you a sense of its size and the scale of the crew compartments , but of course there would n't be any genuine artifacts , making it just slightly better than various other independently created replicas that seem to be floating around . The <URL> , as you know , can not be entered by the public : Shuttle Enterprise at the Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum in New York . Shuttle Discovery at the Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles , Virginia Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in Los Angeles . Shuttle Atlantis at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor 's Complex in Florida
You 're very unlikely to get them rejected if you go through an agency , as they 'll make sure you have all the right information before they submit it to the various government departments . I use <URL> in 2008 to get a tourist visa , and this year for a 3 month double entry business visa , and both times they were fantastic . Both Mongolia and China you can apply for on the road , at embassies or consulates , or just go directly to the websites and fill in the forms and take them to the embassies in London . They 're fairly straightforward , it 's only Russia that is tricky . China I even got at the border last time I went , although I would n't rely on that . One more point - booking the train tickets from outside is FAR more expensive than booking in the countries themselves . I 've just arrived in Volgograd after 34 hours from St Petersburg , and I booked that with 4 hours to go , so there 's really no problem getting tickets in either Kupe or Platzkart classes . Just a thought , it 'll save you a lot if you 're able to be flexible , unless you 're able to get a massive discount by buying the whole lot . It 's tricky to use , but <URL> has the local prices and availability for trains , if you 'd like to have a look and compare . City names must be entered in Cyrillic , but Google Translate does that quite easily for you . Good luck , it 's a fantastic experience .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
First Class on the TGV means a wider seat , power sockets , less people ( so a generally quieter environment ) , and that 's about it . Standard Premier on the Eurostar is pretty much the same , except you get a small cold dish and a cold alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverage . The difference in price is more due to demand than the actual cost of the service . Whether it 's worth it is up to you . The choice is not between Eurostar Standard Premier and TGV First Class , the choice is between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier . If the price difference between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier is small enough to you that it 's worth it to spend those two hours with more space , a power socket , and a small free meal , then go for it . note : carriages 5 &amp; 14 have power sockets on the Eurostar , so if you book a seat in one of those and buy yourself a nice meal from M&amp;S to take on the train , the difference comes down only to the difference in seat size .
It does vary a lot , depending on both the issuing and visited countries . For visiting Australia for an example , you either need your license to be in English , or have an IDP that translates it . There 's a much narrower list of countries for whom getting an Australian license does n't require a test , see <URL> for more details on those things . As an Australian , RACV maintain a <URL> of which countries need an IDP , which one 's it 's merely recommended for , and which ones you can just drive with your Australian license in . For some examples , UK does n't require it , USA recommends it , and UEA requires it . For how to get an IDP as an Australian , see <URL> . Also worth noting that they 're more commonly called an International Driving Permit ( IDP ) in official circles , rather than an International Driving License .
I agree it 's very annoying , as the main reason to purchase first class is a bit of extra space and some peace and quiet . Rule G 38 suggests you may be entitled to the fare difference between first and standard class , if one interprets " declassified " as meaning " no longer first class but just another standard class coach " . G. TRAIN ACCOMMODATION AND RESERVATIONS Travelling in standard class accommodation with a first class ticket If you have a first class ticket ( or the equivalent ) and the first class accommodation ( or the equivalent ) shown in the National Rail Timetable is not available in any train you travel in , you may claim a refund of the difference in price between the first class and the standard class ticket for the relevant part of your journey . <URL> This rule does not apply to season ticket holders . Virgin Trains also explicitly provides this guarantee , although disingenuously they suggest it is their idea : <URL>
end question
start question
Carrying confidential corporate data into US on laptop/Drive/device - how to prevent data theft ?
There are cases of customs and immigration demanding the passwords to phones or laptops , and then taking them out of sight of the passenger to use them and search them . Apparently by law you must provide these passwords when asked , and you may not follow the officers around to see what they do with your devices ( such as putting USB sticks into them to copy data . ) ( For the specific question of " can they really do that ? " see <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> The best prevention for this problem is almost certainly not to have the sensitive data on the laptop at all . It can be in some sort of cloud storage and you can copy it onto your laptop after you clear the border . The second best prevention is to have the data with you but hidden . People have suggested a dual-boot setup , where the machine is booted into one OS that does not have access to the sensitive data at all , and only if they reboot the machine will they know that another OS even exists . Hidden encrypted partitions have also been suggested . While this may work , if it is noticed it will suddenly make everyone very suspicious and get you a lot more attention , so it may not be worth the risk . You can also use USB devices that do n't appear to be USB devices at first glance - I own a beer bottle opener USB and I know someone with a watch USB - to carry the data . While I have seen laptops and phones searched on episodes of Border Security ( generally snooping through emails to see if someone is coming into the country to work or to stay forever ) I have never seen USB sticks searched , and I suspect USB sticks that do n't appear to be data storage devices would be ignored . ( I also once carried a bunch of Word documents on an SD chip in a camera , not for cloak and dagger reasons but just to have one less thing to lose . ) Related : <URL> The third best prevention is to convince yourself that an officer searching your laptop is searching for : contraband data itself , most notably child pornography proof that your story of where you have been or where you are going ( and why ) is true or not proof of your immediate future plans or immediate past activity names and contact information of people who can confirm your story or who can be investigated as part of your criminal behaviour They are not particularly searching for hot stock tips or the news that your company is considering acquiring another , nor the proprietary results of the latest tests on something you 're developing . That information may have tremendous value to someone , but a rogue or corrupt customs official is probably more interested in celebrity photographs than corporate intelligence . But if you ca n't shake your fears , then keep the data off the laptop and if possible entirely off your person as you cross the border .
Here 's a complete list of instructions attached to the " appointment confirmation " document : Instructions Welcome We look forward to seeing you at the U.S. Embassy/Consulate . For your safety and convenience , we ask that you arrive at the time of your appointment , and not earlier . We do n't want you to have to wait on the street , particularly during periods of harsh weather . As a reminder , you will need to bring the following required documents : A printed copy of your appointment letter Your DS-160 confirmation page , One recent photograph , Your current passport and all old passports , Additional documents depending on the visa category Security Screening As you prepare for your visit to the U.S. Embassy/Consulate , there are a few things you can do to help speed your entry . The safety and comfort of our guests and employees is something we take very seriously , so all visa applicants and American Citizen Services ( ACS ) customers must go through security screening before entering the Consular Section . To help avoid unnecessary delays for yourself and others , there are a few things which you should not bring : Large shoulder bags/purses -- bigger than the size of an A-4 format page and zip folders . Applicants may bring one plastic bag or folder with application related documents or a small purse or handbag . Immigrant visa applicants may bring their visa application materials and the sealed envelope with the results of their medical examination . Luggage , such as suitcases , backpacks , briefcases , and other travel bags . These items can not be brought to the Embassy/Consulate and can not be left outside the Embassy/Consulate on the sidewalk or with individuals waiting outside . You may wish to leave your luggage in your hotel room or a train station locker . Battery-operated or electronic devices such as cameras , laptops , recording devices or portable music players . Food and drink . Sealed envelopes or packages , except for sealed envelopes containing medical exam results . Cigarettes , cigars , match boxes , lighters . Sharp objects such as scissors , pen knives or nail files . Weapons or explosive materials of any kind . Cellular telephones must be left with Embassy/Consulate security personnel . This list is not exhaustive . Other items may be prohibited at the discretion of security staff . There is no facility at the Embassy/Consulate to store prohibited items ( aside from cellular telephones ) . You will need to make arrangements to store these items elsewhere before entering . Only American Citizens seeking ACS services or visa applicants and ACS customers with a confirmed appointment will be admitted to the Consular Section . Unfortunately , there is no parking available at the Embassy/Consulate and cars can not stop or stand on the street in front of the building . Visa applicants and ACS customers arriving by car should park in one of the paid public parking spots near the Embassy/Consulate or arrange to be dropped off down the street . Once again , to provide you with better and faster service , we ask that you arrive at the time of your interview and not before . Judging by the document itself , you can easily tell that the security procedures are going to be annoying . Below I 'll describe how the procedure looked like in my case - an interview in Warsaw . Please excuse the verbosity and feel invited to write a " TL ; DR " section : Since I did n't know anything what would happen if I happened to try to bring in one of the forbidden items , I decided to wear informal clothes and carry only absolutely necessary items before going through the security check . . When I reached the U.S. Consular Office , I could see about a dozen people waiting outside the office . I was 15 minutes earlier , but one woman from the crowd told me that she 's just waiting to be let in because she had to turn off her mobile phone and that I 'll probably be allowed earlier . While waiting , I could see a big sign next to the door . It said that it is strictly forbidden to bring any mobile phones , weapons and some other objects that I ca n't remember anymore . I felt worried , because the instructions said that I would be allowed to leave it at the security check . On the other hand , another sign on the door said that it 's allowed to deposit turned off mobile phones . A rather impolite man let in people one-by-one and when it was finally my turn , made sure that the phone is switched off by pressing a key , then took it and gave me a token . Then I went through the metal detector , the procedure reminded the one in the airports . A woman before me had some metal detected in her small bag and had it manually inspected , so if you plan to bring one , try to bring as few private things as possible . On the other hand , it was definitely bigger than an A4 sheet , so it looks like they are n't extremely strict when enforcing the instructions . I was let in and after walking through a rat
There are a few exceptions that I know of from the TSA , and these have to do with medication or disability assistance equipment ; and children 's formula baby food , etc. ( for the liquid restriction ) . All other prohibitions are not subject to exemptions . This is because some of the items are classified as hazardous material ( HAZMAT ) that need to carried by certified companies/equipment ; in other cases it is banned by the FAA for safety ; and finally because it can be considered a weapon . Your only recourse - if the item can not be checked in , is to have it shipped to your destination as cargo - and if it is hazmat it may not even be allowed to fly and will have to be driven there .
It turns out that hotels are happy to receive mail for you before you arrive , provided you give them a heads-up first . I just bought my tickets from the Tigers ' <URL> , and had them send it to my hotel . I added my arrival date to the address , as " Lastname樣 ( 4月8日宿泊 ) " . The hotel got it fine . I did have to provide a Japanese phone number to the ticket purchasing website . My Japanese Skype number was n't accepted ( maybe because it has an area code specific to VoIP numbers ) . I used my friends ' number , but I imagine you could just use your hotel 's number ; it 's not like they got a call .
Note that October is probably not the best season to to this trip due to vicissitudes of weather . In the alpine regions some roads are closed at that time . Indeed there are roads only accessible during spring and summer . They are closed in October or November and are opened again in April or May . If you want to find you which roads are closed , you can have a look at the <URL> . There you will see some transparent rectangles with blue characters saying 11-4 , 10-4 , etc , as shown below . These are the periods where the roads are closed ( November to April , October to April , etc ) . I say this because it was not really clear what the " Great Dolomites Road " refers to . After googling , it seems that it only contains roads which are accessible all year long . In Winter , the roads in alpine region are often in a better condition than roads in flatter regions . In the mountains the operation centers are well equipped and experienced in clearing roads . This does not mean that it is easy going . You can always get into a snow shower . That can be more silly if you have no experience or if you feel unsafe . So have a look at the weather forecast before starting . As an alternative , you may consider public transport . I think it is possible to travel by bus along the track you are referring to . But that 's another topic .
The statement ' there is no speed limit on the Autobahn ' is not really correct . I could n't find any official statistics , but I 've seen a number of only 50 % of German Autobahns without any limit . Many parts have a permanent limits of 120 or 130 km/h ( 74 mph or 81 mph ) . Some parts are limited to 80 ( 50 mph ) due to construction work . Also , some limits are only for wet roads . Finally many parts have dynamic speed limit signs that change based on the traffic situation . Even though there is no general limit for the 50 % , there is a recommended speed of 130 km/h ( 81 mph ) . If you are going much faster and there is an accident , it is more likely you are blamed for it ( if you survive it , which is unlikely ) . Autobahn police can still pull you over for reckless driving or driving too fast in certain situations even when there was no limit . How fast may you drive on the Autobahn ? This really depends on the situation , there are some stretches in less populated areas that get relatively light traffic and you can drive 200 km/h ( 125 mph ) with no problem . It also depends on the time of day . There is rush hour traffic that limits your speed anyways . Late at night it is usually empty and you can go fast . It also depends on you car , it makes a big difference if you go 200 km/h in a big BMW or Porsche or a smaller older car . It is also much more tiring to go fast , you have to concentrate much more at 200 than 120 because any tiny mistake has much bigger consequences . I had several friends visiting from overseas , renting a car and then were too scared to drive really fast . If you are planning to go fast , start with a speed you are comfortable with from home and then increase it over time . Do n't go 230 km/h ( 143 mph ) as soon as you hit the Autobahn for the first time .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
This trick is used by many Piece of Plastic on bottle before you close the cap That will prevent spills . After that put it in ziploc type plastic bag Check at home before you put it in luggage .
Millions of smartphones and 10 's ( if not 100 's ) of thousands of Kindles/E-book readers go through airport scanners every day . So far I believe the number that have apparently been damaged by airport scanner stands at about 2 for Kindle , and I 've never heard of a smartphone being damaged by any form of scanners . ( And in the case of the Kindles there 's serious doubt it was caused by the X-ray machine , and not simply broken in the customer bags ) In general the only items that should not be put through the standard X-ray machine are very high ISO film ( 800 or higher ) and some very specialized medical devices ( and if you had one of those , you 'd already know about it ) . You are far more likely to cause damage to your phone by dropping it when trying to put it in the tray than you are having it broken by the equipment itself . There is no need to remove your Kindle from your carry-on bag , so just make sure it 's packed well and you 'll be fine . If you 're carrying a laptop you WILL need to remove that from your bag ( unless you have a special TSA-approved laptop bag ) - again the only real risk is in dropping it or forgetting to collect it afterwards .
In many of the big cities you will find department stores that are dedicated to selling electronics equipment . This is the place to buy your plan . The reason is that most of the booths are manned by young people and you are more likely to find someone who can speak English . You need to understand that although Chinese people are trying hard to learn English from a young age their English level is quite low , this could be a struggle . The second reason is that if someone can afford to have a booth inside a department store they should be somewhat reputable as compared to a shop on the street . The rule with handing out money in China is to try everything before you buy it and get a receipt . Then once you have tried it , try it again about 1km away from the store ASAP in case it does n't work and you need to return it quickly . I have had experiences where the shopkeeper has assured me a phone card would work only for it to not work when I tried it the next day and I had to go back and argue with them . You definitely need to try it with your equipment before you leave the store . You should also make sure your 3G operator is <URL> they have the monopoly on the mobile business , I would n't trust anyone else .
In general , you can find information about what items are permitted on the flight on both the website of the airline ( they will have a restricted items page ) and on the website of the relevant athourity who would control things for the country you are flying from . As you do n't give that here , I 'm going to take the information from the <URL> , which under the category " Sporting Goods " says : Bows and crossbows | Hand luggage : No . | Checked Luggage : Yes . with no additional restrictions . So you will probably be OK . If I were you however , I 'd enquire about the legality of possessing and transporting these items in your destination country - archery is a fairly common hobby , so I doubt they are illegal anywhere , but some places may restrict how they are transported and where they can be removed from containers .
Here are some of the main signs I would look out for to decide if a review is fake . ( note : updated with some points taken from a study on the matter ) Overly hyped . While it is certainly possible that someone had an amazing time , the more hyped the review looks the more likely it is fake . " Fake reviewers tend to overdo " self-referencing " , that is , they overuse words such as " I " , " me " , " my " , " mime " , as if they try to underline their existence and credibility . " <URL> ( note : I changed this point following feedback in the comments ) Hotel jargon . " They have eight spacious twin suites with amazing views " . Unlikely a real guest would write that . Sudden burst of posts . If there are n't many reviews for the property and then all of a sudden there 's a bunch of new ones . It looks like someone decided to go bump up their rating . No background for the reviewer . If it 's the only place they reviewed , it takes away from the trust . Glaringly different from other reviews . Unless there 's been a renovation or change of management , generally speaking reviews are relatively consistent . Truthful reviewers tend to " focus on spatial details ( e.g. , bathroom , floor , small , location ) of their experience , while deceptive reviewers have difficulties in filling in spatial information . As a result , deceptive reviewers will focus on other types of information , such as why they went to Chicago ( e.g. , vacation , business ) , or whom they went with ( e.g. , family , husband ) . " <URL> " Deceptive reviews demonstrate the characteristics of imaginative writing , i.e. , frequent usage of verbs and adverbs , while truthful reviews demonstrate the characteristics of informative writing , i.e. , frequent usage of nouns and adjective ( except superlatives ) " <URL> In the end , you just need to look at the balance of evidence and decide for yourself if the person is worth trusting or not .
In the UK , if domestic and international travellers are mixed , you will have to have a photo taken whilst passing through security if you are connecting to a domestic flight . At the gate , they match this photo up with the one taken at security . Details can be found <URL> . To strengthen the security of the United Kingdom border , airports that operate common departure lounges must comply with UK Border Force conditions that are necessary to prevent any circumvention of UK immigration controls . This includes a requirement to capture a facial biometric for each domestic passenger on entry and exit of a departure lounge in order to verify their identity . Update : I think there 's some confusion in the other answers about what the question is exactly . Let 's say you fly Boston - Heathrow - Paris . In this case you do not pass through immigration , but just a security and boarding pass check . You then board your flight to Paris where you would go through immigration . The OP is asking what if you went through security and then attempted to board a domestic flight to , say , MAN , perhaps by swapping a boarding pass with someone else , or just using a second BP you 'd already printed under a different ticket ( though that will also result in failure due to Ready To Fly in LHR ) . What will happen is that you will arrive at the gate with the intention of boarding your domestic flight . You will face the biometric camera and it will not recognise you and you will be denied boarding . The only way of exiting the airport will be through immigration .
I lived in DC/Northern VA area for the past four years . I can tell you riding Metro in the city is the way to go . Traffic in DC is very bad and on top of that the roads can be very very confusing for visitors . The worst part is probably the parking . During prime tourist hours , it 's almost impossible to find one . I do n't know which part of Maryland you 'll be becoming from . If you 're coming from the Red Line ( Shade Grove ) area , then I recommend driving to the Bethesda station and park there . If you 're coming from Red Line ( Glenmont ) area , I recommend parking at the Silver Spring station . The stations in the suburbs have parking lots ( they charge by the hours , or a maximum of $ 5ish per day ) , where as most of the ones inside of DC do n't . If you plan to do some sightseeing in the city , check out the official <URL> Most of the tourist spots are Metro accesible . You can also check out all the metro stations wrt to the tourust spots on <URL> There are different types of Metro cards you can get . <URL> : works like a plastic credit card . you can buy these at MD/VA grocery stores . You start with a $ 20 value , and can add more $ to it later . I think the best deal for visitors is the One Day Pass . For $ 9 , It is valid for one day of unlimited Metro travel on weekdays after 9:30 a.m. or all day on Saturdays , Sundays .
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
The restrictions made by the Congress on those possessing Iranian nationality are only to the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . Canada is not a participant in the Visa Waiver Program . Canadians entering the US on Canadian passports do not do so under the VWP . I do not believe your parents will be affected by these changes . <URL>
<URL> does what you want . It has two modes , a free mode where you upload a picture and use their on-line tool to position the cropping correctly -- compliance with the rest of the rules for passport photos is up to you . You get back an image you can then upload to anybody who does prints . We used this mode , paid 29 cents for the prints and renewed our passports . There are also plenty of places that will print and mail , albeit at a higher price . This produces 4 shots on a single image that you print as a 4x6 , you have to cut them apart yourself . ( I used a paper cutter to ensure perfectly straight cuts . ) If you want more hand-holding they offer a paid mode where you simply upload the photo and they crop it and check for compliance with the rules -- they then send it off for printing . Beware that the pricing is slightly deceptive as they brag about per print but you ca n't order just one .
Normally if you 're stopped or involved in an accident police officers are asking for 3 things : License Registration Proof of Insurance . Normally in the case of the rental from a private party or from a car rental company you do n't have car registration available but you do have a rental agreement signed by you and an authorized representative allowing you to drive the car . <URL> formerly known as <URL> provides this service for you so they must have formalized to process but I do n't have their contract available but I have found a few others online <URL> <URL> and so on . One of the things that could pose a problem is actually insurance . I have n't found any companies in the US in any state that will sell a policy to a non-US resident for a limited term , but a policy holder in the US ( and your friend will have to have one to register the car ) will be allowed to add you as a foreign driver to his/her insurance thus clearing the last obstacle ( this may vary from state to state and company to company ) . P.S. . There have been anecdotal evidence that a possession of a car registration allows you to legally drive someone else 's car but I ca n't find any proof of that so do n't take it at face value .
I 've just come from there . Something interesting to note - unless you go really touristy - Mongolians traditionally use wooden saddles , something I was NOT expecting to see :) They and Kyrgyzstan share quite a lot of the same culture , including horse riding , and the nomadic / semi nomadic lifestyle . But at least the Kyrgs do n't use wooden saddles ;) In both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan ( and indeed in parts of Kazakhstan and Siberia ) there were frequent horse riding opportunities - from a few hours to several days . I 'd decide first what terrain you 'd like to do it on ( bearing in mind it can get quite painful in the saddle if it 's new to you ) , and then find a country with that . Both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan are fairly cheap to live in , but the tourist activities in Mongolia struck me as being very overpriced . I preferred Kyrgyzstan for the CBT approach ( Comunity Based Tourism ) . You can email the CBT and ask about tours or suggestions . From what I saw , I 'd suggest perhaps doing it from Cholpon-Ata just near Lake Izzyk-Kul . It 's a beautiful region and has both options of steep rides or open plains . And the opportunities are certainly cheaper , and you can recover afterwards on the beaches by the lake :)
It depends on if you are a visitor or if you are a Californian resident . Visitors are allowed to use their foreign driver 's licence without limitation . If you become a resident of California , you must obtain a Californa driver 's license within 10 days . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I get two separate receipts when booking two flight tickets online ?
If you book two passengers in one booking , you 'll always get a single receipt . Now , to answer points 1 and 2 you raise : the prices is going to be higher only if no more seats are available at the same price . Many online flight search sites DO give a notification of the number of seats left at a particular price if they 're running low . For instance , Kayak has a small icon showing this , next to where they show the icon for ' red-eye ' flights . Seating is often not allocated during the booking process , but rather during the check-in process , so this question is moot when booking . Even if it allows you to choose seats during booking ( perhaps as a paid add-on to your ticket or if you 're higher up in the frequent flyer tier ) , you can always choose later on during check-in where you want to sit . Finding seats together is usually a bigger problem for large groups , not couples . And if you want to ensure it , choose seats during web check-in rather than leaving it for airport check-in . Or you could just <URL> .
From Melbourne International Airport , the cheapest option is to catch the bus to Broadmeadows and then the train from there . Total cost is $ 3.76 if you already have a Myki . It 's roughly 20 mins to Broadmeadows station and then about 30 mins by train to Southern Cross . From Avalon , the shuttle bus by <URL> is the cheapest at $ 22 . It takes about an hour . If there are multiple people travelling however , it may be cheaper to take a cab to Lara and catch the train from there . For just one person though , the coach is still cheaper than this more inconvenient option .
I am not a lawyer , but from looking at the <URL> , as well as from my personal experience , it seems that the following should work : You are allowed to bring items with you for your personal use when you enter Canada from the outside . This includes , for example , a laptop , or jewelry . Thus , you should not even have to declare your ring ( I was wearing mine each time I entered Canada , never an issue ) . The ring for your ( future ? ) wife is a bit more tricky . However , if she stays 48 hours or more abroad with you before the two of you enter Canada , she has an exemption of <URL> on goods bought/received , which should cover her ring , if I understand your post correctly , and if you give the ring to her before you travel . She will need to declare the ring , and should ideally have a receipt . If you have had ( temporary ) residency status when you left Canada , this applies to you , as well , by the way . If she returns to Canada before you do , and she has stayed abroad for 7 days or more , she can declare the ring , anyway , and have you bring it to Canada on her behalf . If you fear that this approach may ruin the perfect moment to present the rings , do n't despair - you may want to propose ( or have her commit to a long-term relationship ) before leaving for Canada , anyway , and you can always ask her to hand back the ring so that you can make this " more romantic " , which will keep her on her toes for quite a while and allow for a beautiful surprise ( 10/10 , would do again ) .
Firstly , not all airlines do . I booked a Philippines Air flight ( through Expedia ) last night that did n't require I enter my physical address . So now that we 've established that , we can look at those that do , and why . In case of disaster . Some airlines ask for an emergency contact name and phone , others merely ask for your physical address . It 's another way of figuring out how to contact next of kin . Indeed when I went through an experience in South America , Interpol and the NZ Police used residential addresses to ensure they had the correct next of kin . For correspondence , mailing and advertisement . While some of us prefer the electronic world , it 's so easy to delete emails - they know you 'll likely open an envelope addressed to you . American Airlines confirms this ( correspondence reason ) in their <URL> . Air New Zealand used physical addresses to send out their latest AirPoints card offer . For corporate partners . Some airlines are linked with hotel chains , credit card numbers and the like . They may share information on your travelling habits , spending habits , and help to update each others ' information . In addition , these partners may also send you junk mail . . err ... corporate correspondence , permitted by you if you ticked/didn ' t untick the right box , or agreed to some long terms and conditions . Lost baggage . In the event they need to return items to you , they have a place to send it . Your email could be blocked/hacked , phones get lost , but save for an earthquake , the luggage can at least be sent to your nearest airport . I had this in 2002 when my snowboard bag got mixed up with someone else 's . They 'd already looked up where I lived and re-routed it down to my city . If they 're smart , and have your email and physical address , they can now send you targeted marketing - cheap flight from your home city , or hotel deals through their corporate partners . Historical reasons . Remember when companies started to ask for email addresses , and we all thought that was dumb ? Now we completely expect it . But we 're also happy to continue filling out the physical address , because we 're so used to it . And they probably feel that a ) they always got it , so why would they stop and b ) the more you know about a customer , the better . I 'm sure there 's plenty of other reasons , but those are the ones I 've heard of , experienced , or read about in the past , and can think of for now :) Come to think of it , I 'm kinda surprised now that I was able to get away with it at all . They did ask for my credit card billing address , but that 's different to my physical address anyway !
In the Schengen area , the relevant distinction is between flights to non-Schengen destinations and flights to Schengen destinations . If you have two stops in the area , your journey includes a flight between Schengen destinations and you will need to go through the " external border " checkpoint to catch that flight . There will be no passport check at the second airport and once you have crossed the border at the first airport , there is nothing stopping you from leaving , which is why transit privileges do not apply . Whether the next destination is in the same country or in another Schengen country does not make a difference and your UK visa and all the other rules and regulations regarding transit are not relevant in this situation either . As an Indian citizen , it means that you do need a type C Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . See also <URL> for a full explanation of the rules .
So long as you 're using your own computers using SSL/TLS on websites should be sufficient , with a few caveats . Make sure you do n't have any rogue CA certs installed . eg . <URL> . Make sure that the URL in the address bar always says https instead of http to protect against <URL> style attacks . Also , this question might be better posted on security.stackexchange.com instead of travel.stackexchange.com . .
As was explained in the comments : The way that all the airline booking systems work , it is not possible to have people on different booking ( fare ) classes on the same ticket . If you have two people on the same flights in the same booking classes , it 's fine . If you have two people on the same flights but different booking classes ( could be business and economy , or even just flexible vs non-flexible economy ) , then they must be on different tickets and PNRs . You therefore need to make two different bookings for you , one for the people in one booking class ( + cabin ) , one for the people on the same flight but in the other booking class . Your best bet in this case is to skip the internet , and talk to ( shock horror ! ) a person . Be that a travel agent , or the airline 's booking line , either should work . They will create the two itineraries for you , hold them while you confirm you 're happy and double check that everything else is the same , then ticket the two for you . They should also be able to attach notes to indicate the bookings are linked . Oh , and one thing to be aware of , because you 'll have two bookings , if there 's a problem with the flight and it gets cancelled , you will almost certainly have to speak with another human . Otherwise , you may find that you and your wife are re-routed one way , your kids another , because the automated re-booking system wo n't necessarily know to keep the two together because they 're on different bookings . Note that if by " mixed-class tickets " what you means was the more common " one way in economy , return in business " or something like that , then many ( but not all ) online flight booking systems will be able to sell you the ticket , as will the airline or a travel agent .
A little bit of history : ( from the top of my head , there is very little to find about this on the web I think , even in Spanish ) : At some point during the Cuban Revolution and before I was born , being in possesion of any foreing currencies in Cuba became illegal ( unless you had a special permit from the government ) . Many Cubans spent time in jail for this reason . Diplomats , tourists ( which were rare at that time ) and foreigners with a permanent or temporary residence were also allowed to use foreign currencies , and there were special stores ( with imported products that could not be found anywhere else in the country ) that only them could use , at that time these stores were commonly called " diplo-tiendas " . After the fall of the Berlin wall , Cuba started to fall into a deep and accelerated economical crisis , the Cuban government started to print an alternate currency that could also be used in those " special stores " , they allowed regular Cubans to use them and encouraged them to give away their gold and jewleries in exchange for this new currency . This currency was despectively called by Cubans as " chavito " ( no idea where the word came from , I was a child at that time ) and the name is still used today in a lesser degree . This was the start of the two currencies system . In 1994 , during the worst period of the economical crisis , the Cuban government decided to open the country for tourism , foreign investment , and small private business . At the same time , they legalized the possession of foreign currencies , and more of those " special stores " were built all around the country . They assumed at that time that only a small percent of Cubans would ever be able to go there , and this was all supposed to be a " short-term temporary measure " . Their goal was to keep tourist and foreign companies as segregated as possible from regular Cubans , but at the same time estimulate the flow of strong currencies into the country . They started to print yet another new currency that could be exchanged at a 1x1 rate with US dollars , and when you paid with " real dollars " for product and services , you would get your change in that alternate currency unless you explicitly requested otherwise . Later on in 2004 the government decided to forbid using foreign currencies at stores and hotels , and they forced Cubans and tourist alike to exchange their foreign currencies by the Cuban Convertible Pesos . And this is how the mess became permanent . The two currencies : Tourists are allowed to posses and to use CUP , but there are certain services and products that are subsidized by the Cuban government , just for Cubans ( like theaters , concerts , museums , movies and the food rations that all Cubans receive on a monthly basis ) . Tourists will have to pay a different price in CUC for those services , and of course there are no subsidized food rations for them . However it might still be a good idea to have some CUPs available , since buying food from street sellers and fruit/vegies stores or taking public transportation ( including the " shared " taxis called " boteros " ) is a lot more cost-effective when paid using CUP , specially if you have a Cuban friend ( and I mean a real friend ) to walk around with you . The main concern when using the two currencies are the scams , you need to know all the bills and coins of the two currencies . So we have Cuban Pesos ( CUP ) and Cuban Convertibles ( CUC ) The main difference between the bills are the colors , as you can see in the picture below , CUP are kind of monochromatic , while CUC have many colors in them : <URL> Another difference is the presence of monuments of historical characters in CUCs instead of the picture of the person found in CUPs . Note that CUP bills that are about 30 years old or more were also printed in many colors , but they are not longer used these days and it would be very unusual to come across one of these . The coins are also easy to tell apart , coins from CUC have all an octagon around them , and they are stamped with landscapes . Coins from CUP are all stamped either with a star or with a picture of an historical character , namely Che Guevara - 3 cup , Jose Marti - 1 cup and ( currently rarely found ) Camilo Cienfuegos - 0.40 cup . CUC Coins : <URL> CUP Coins : <URL> <URL> Recent events : The Cuban goverment is currently <URL> , for this reason CUP can now be spent almost everywhere ( but not the reverse ) , and when prices are displayed just in CUC the regular CADECA conversion rate will be applied if you want to use CUP . As of January 2016 , state-owned companies ( for example most of the stores and supermarkets ) are starting to accept some major credit cards as method of payment for goods and services ( VISA and MasterCard for example ) , at least in Havana , so you could also use that as a way of avoiding dealing with currencies . Note that every time you use a credit card , the store rep will ask for a piece of ID and collect as much personal info as he/she can , I guess it will take a few years before t
This is prohibited for safety reasons . Each row has one extra oxygen mask ( there are exceptions , some rows have no extra masks and they will be marked somehow ) . If more than one infant is seated in a parent 's lap and the oxygen masks were to be used one of the row occupants will have no oxygen mask to use . Usually the reservation system/agents will avoid such a situation but it could happen that a family with two infants will be given boarding passes in one row , the cabin crew then will move one of the parents along with one of the infants to the other side of the row or to another row . Update : in some larger jets the set of seats in the middle ( 4 or 5 seats ) may have two extra oxygen masks , in that case two infants can accompany their parents in their laps .
Yes . At this writing , nothing in the <URL> specifically excludes earnings on Emirates-operated flights . The <URL> indicates Earn elite-qualifying AAdvantage miles when you fly on Qantas marketed and operated flights as well as Qantas Airways codeshare flights . Simply : Buy an eligible published fare ticket booked in an eligible code Fly an eligible route The accrual table is also provided on the partner page . At this writing , only Qantas codeshares operated by Jetstar are specifically excluded from earning AA miles . Other QF-coded flights should be fine , provided it is not prohibited in the fare rules . The FlyerTalk wikis on <URL> and <URL> as of August 2015 also seem to confirm that it is possible , with various anecdotal reports of success . FlyerTalk is generally up-to-date on such matters . N.B. Earning AAdvantage miles flying on EY and other non-oneworld operated flights as a QANTAS codeshare / marketed flight is an exception to oneworld rules that essentially state that to earn miles one must fly a oneworld marketed flight operated by a oneworld airline . See post # 4 for more . and To reiterate : one may earn AAdvantage miles flying an Emirates ( or Air Fiji , Air Tahiti Nui , etc. ) operated flight if it is marketed by QANTAS / a Qantas codeshare . <URL> at TravelingBetter.com .
No , officially it is not possible to receive a passport check stamp for both flights . Source : I tweeted Ryanair if you could get the passport check stamp for both flights if one had two flights the same day and they were fast to respond that no , unfortunately not . <URL> That being said , I would for sure try and ask at your first departure if they would kindly also stamp your second boarding pass . I do not see anything airport - / flight-specific about the stamp as far as I can tell from <URL>
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
The metro is only $ 1,70 per ride , and if you buy a carnet of 10 the price is $ 13.30 for all 10 . Probably your best bet . I hate cycling because of the issues with locking it up , worrying about theft , and if you 're in the upper arrondissements going uphill on cobblestone sounds like a miserable experience I would rather spare myself from . The city is surprisingly small , with a most of it very walkable ( especially the major tourist attractions ) . Over three days I imagine 10 tickets is more then enough for the two of you . Tip : After you 've validated your ticket , do n't forget to hang on to it for the duration of your ride . My girlfriend once lost hers and had the unfortunate experience of random ticket inspection upon exiting the subway station : Where a guy with a machine asks to see your ticket , and if you do n't have one that 's validated , he has a fancy debit machine to collect $ 40 :-)
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
I did received boarding pass for spicejet from the transfer desk in Dubai without any issues . Thanks
Always , ALWAYS get a metered taxi . If the taxi driver says no meter , get a different one . Meters almost always run cheaper than the flat rate taxis . Also , know where you are going . I usually have my iPhone with GPS so I can watch where we are going in case the diver decides to circle the block a few times . Getting to know the major street names is also good advice . 15 minutes with a map and a marker and you can save yourself a ton of money . EDIT : You can ask the desk person at your hotel or hostel which cabs are reliable and trustworthy . EDIT 2 : Also , just a personal comment here . I 'm an expat . I 've been living in Taiwan for about 4 years now . I speak Mandarin reasonably well and can even yell some stuff in Taiwanese when the occasion calls for it . Yet , I still get scammed sometimes . Over a long enough timeline , it will happen ... but the goal is to mitigate the amount of times it happens and how much they get from you .
If you are at a land border and inadmissible in both directions , you 'll be taken to a detention centre . In the scenario you described , most likely <URL> . They will book you in and then go over your travel document ( s ) with a view to determining where you are admissible . They will contact the consulate where you have citizenship and let them know you are in custody . Once they have determined the next steps , they will serve you with a removal order . If it happens in Russia , you 'll go to the <URL> ( local magistrate ) and get a five year ban , you can also expect to get dunned for their expense . Estonia has a similar sanction , but it operates under the <URL> . Once the paperwork is complete , you 'll be escorted to a removal centre . In Estonia , it would be at <URL> , and in Russia there 's one at <URL> . In most cases , you 'll be issued a one-way travel document and placed on the appropriate ( civil ) flight . Nobody gets stuck forever in a gulag . If the receiving country has no problems with you , the removing country will give your actual travel document to the airline staff and you 'll get it back once the flight has cleared the removing country 's air space . I 've been in the one at Sheremetyevo ( on the representation side ) , the biggest concern they have is finding out the REAL reason you are in their country . Also , you need to really hope there were no crimes committed in the area where you were caught . I have no experience in Tallinn . Overall , it 's comparable to detention anywhere ; the biggest problem people face is the language barrier in the day-to-day world as their paperwork is getting sorted out . From end-to-end , the process would take a maximum of two weeks . When you debrief people who have been removed , they invariably report that the conditions are civil , and the most harrowing part of the experience was the screwballs they encountered whilst in detention . NOTE : your scenario takes place where there are clear land borders . If your scenario took place at a disputed border , like in Morocco , things could get exponentially more complex very quickly . This answer is scoped to stable countries only and the intervention occurs at a control point . If you are caught deeply inland in Russia , you will be in trouble . Also countries and regions not mentioned in this answer are out of scope . Related : <URL> Adding ... Further to the comment by <URL> ( to whom thanks ) , depending upon how the control point is laid out , there may be a ' discussion ' by the border guards over who has jurisdiction . My best guess is given in the first paragraph . BUT ... For the scenario described , the OP should try to get taken into custody by the Russians ( even if they have to run to the interior ) .
Have a read of the <URL> section of <URL> . It details exactly what you need to do to get an account ( depending on the credit card you plan to use ) , how to get it verified , and then information on booking the tickets . It 's fiddly , takes a couple of days , but I can confirm that it works as I used it last month to book tickets ! ( You 'll end up using the official booking sites , either IRCTC or ClearTrip depending on your credit card , but the process of registering for them as a foreigner without an Indian mobile phone is fiddly so you 'll need to follow the Seat61 advice ! )
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
Without any relevant exception I can think of , there is no such thing as an " area between land borders " . A land border between two countries follow in almost all cases a very well defined path and what you actually mean is the area between two border control posts . If you e.g. locate the border crossing on E75 between Hungary and Serbia on <URL> , you can see that the actual border is pretty much exactly in the middle between the checkpoints . So , even if you travel from Hungary to Serbia on this road , have passed the Hungarian checkpoint and for immigration purposes technically left Hungary , you are still in Hungary until you cross the border .
end question
start question
Is it safe to buy-and-forget prepaid SIM card with internet tariff in Germany ?
I bought a <URL> in December 2012 in a Kaufland supermarket in Berlin . <URL> was via the congstar web site , and done in some minutes . There are several thirty day data packages available , most notably : 1GB at 12.90 EUR and 3GB at 19.90 EUR . congstar is a discount daughter company of Deutsche Telekom ( T-Mobile ) , and network coverage of Deutsche Telekom is perhaps the best in Germany . Concerning your question : If you subscribe to a data package , it will only be extended if there is sufficient credit on your card . There is no deactivation fee . Quote from the section for the 1GB data package , Surf Flat Option 1000 , in the <URL> ( German ) : Die Buchung und die Wirksamkeit der Option setzt voraus , dass der Kunde zum jeweiligen Abbuchungszeitpunkt des monatlichen Optionspreises über ein ausreichendes Guthaben auf seinem Guthabenkonto verfügt . Der Abrechnungszeitraum der Option beträgt 30 Tage . Die Option verlängert sich automatisch jeweils um 30 Tage , wenn sie nicht mit einer Frist von einer Woche zum Ende eines 30-Tage-Zyklus gekündigt wird . Weist das Guthabenkonto zum Abbuchungszeitpunkt kein ausreichendes Guthaben auf und kann der Optionspreis nicht abgebucht werden , gelten die Konditionen der Option bis zu einer erfolgreichen Abbuchung nicht mehr und die Datennutzung wird nutzungsabhängig nach dieser Preisliste abgerechnet . Soweit die Option nicht gekündigt wurde , führt congstar maximal bis zu einer Dauer von 180 Tagen regelmäßig einen Abbuchungsversuch durch . Wenn dieser erfolgreich ist , erhält der Kunde eine SMS-Information und die genannten Verbindungen werden wieder zu den Konditionen der Option abgerechnet . Andernfalls wird die Option gelöscht . As Google Translate struggles with this text , a rough translation done by me ( disclaimer : IANAL - I am not a lawyer ) : The booking and validity of the option ( i.e. data package ) requires that , at times of billing of the monthly option price , the customer has sufficient credit on his prepaid account . Billing period for the package is 30 days . The option automatically extends for 30 days , unless it was cancelled at least one week before the end of the 30 day cycle . If , at the time of billing , the prepaid account does not have sufficient credit and the option price can not be withdrawn , then the option will not be valid anymore and data usage will be billed according to usage as described in this price list . If the option has n't been cancelled , then congstar will repeatedly attempt to withdraw from your prepaid account up to a maximum of 180 days . Once an attempt has been successful , the customer gets an SMS information and data connections will again be billed according to the option . Otherwise , the option will be deleted . Just to clarify : Guthabenkonto refers to the virtual account where the money is stored that you charged your card with . Above , I translated it as prepaid account . Guthabenkonto does not refer to your bank account , which you do n't have to specify , unless you want automatic recharging for convenience .
You are definitely liable for duties and taxes in your final destination ( your usual place of residence or the place you are moving to ) . You can not circumvent these rules by adding transit points or a round-trip somewhere . You can also be caught weeks or months after the fact , successfully going through the border does not mean the applicable taxes are not due anymore . When it comes to short visits and/or ( airport ) transits in a third country , you probably do n't have to pay customs duties and taxes but , to do everything completely by the book , you might need to complete some temporary import procedure or to provide a deposit to be refunded once you prove that you have exported the goods again . In most cases , for consumer goods and the things tourists typically carry with them , nobody bothers but such procedure do exist for really expensive things , professional equipment , cars , etc. . See also <URL> for a related discussion and <URL> for a specific example .
There are no experience-related difference to speed limits in Germany ( where I live ) , and neither are there in Poland , according to <URL> <URL> . I think the Belarusian regulation is rather unusual .
After <URL> in which bombs were connected to mobile phones , new law has been passed . Each and all phone lines have to be registered to a person using it . Which means that in practice , buying any SIM , including pre-paid ones , requires you to present identification and valid address in Spain . That being said , you should n't have any problems at all buying the SIM once you 're already there . Even at the airport . <URL> . Vodafone , Movistar , Orange are major providers , which have their SIM cards sold everywhere . Yoigo and Simyo are quite major MVNOs and also should be easily available . Many others are tied to supermarket chain , social network etc. .
I can answer " What risk is there on the ICE to not getting a seat reservation ? " for the Dutch part , as I take this train every work day , without reservation . There is an electronic display above each pair of seats that says on which stretch the seat is reserved , e.g. if it says " Utrecht - Frankfurt " and you sit there when the train is in Utrecht , you are likely to be asked to move to another seat . Many of these people do show up ( but not all of them ) . There are also 6-seat rooms that have the displays besides the doors . There are also seats that say " Ggf . freigeben " . It means that the seat may be reserved , it was available for " Express Reservierung " ( do n't ask me how to do an express reservation ) . In practice you wo n't often have to stand up if you sit here , but it does happen . Many seats will also show no reservation , so it would be best to pick one of those . Most of the time , there is enough place to sit , so a reservation is n't really necessary . On some times and some days the train may be very full , mostly due to inside-Netherlands commuters like me ( we leave in Arnhem at the latest ) , and on some moments like the start of the weekend due to actual international travellers . Then you 're unlucky and will have to stand , but luckily the Bistro serves drinks ... After Arnhem , the train becomes much quieter . I do n't know if it becomes busier again after Duisburg .
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
If you just care about terrorist attacks or ISIS activities , I can say that here is totally safe ( at least now ) . Although , as I mentioned in another post , some regions in Sistan-Baluchestan are the exceptions because of drug smugglers and some terrorists as well . On the other hand , if you care about political issues and somethings that are related to the government , I have no clear idea . Usually the UK and US citizens have some problems . However , I have personally seen several UK tourists in Tehran that were content with Iran . And finally , obviously there are thieves here too . You must watch out your pocket .
I 've used a lot of these cards almost since they were introduced to the market over a decade ago , so I 'm drawing on my experience here ( technical corrections are welcome ) : Prepaid debit cards in the US come in two major classes : reloadable and non-reloadable . Non-reloadable cards are purchased with a fixed amount of U.S. dollars on the card , and can not be topped up . Once they are empty , they can be discarded . These are often sold as " gift cards " , do not require an ID check , and can be found in most grocery stores , drugstores , shopping malls , etc. . They generally have a flat fee for purchase of the card , and usually no other fees . The highest denomination I have ever seen for these is $ 1000 , though I believe the law allows for them to have up to $ 3000 . Most are in the $ 25 - $ 100 range , though higher denominations can be found with some shopping . You will receive a card immediately at the point of purchase , usually with the name of GIFT CARD or something similar . This once caused one cashier to glance at the receipt as I was finishing my purchase and tell me " Thanks for coming in today , Mr. Gift . " Reloadable cards are purchased with an arbitrary amount of money loaded on the card , and can be topped up at any time . These typically carry monthly fees , top-up fees , and sometimes transaction fees . They also require an ID check , and the issuer may restrict issuance to US residents . ( Thanks , PATRIOT act ! ) They can be loaded with up to $ 3000 at any given time , though the issuing bank may have a lower limit . Reloadable cards may have to be mailed to you at a US address ; you do not typically get the card at point of purchase , though you may get a temporary card . The card you receive in the mail will have your name on it , and it generally takes about a week or two to arrive . As far as I know , neither type can be obtained from outside the US ; you must obtain them in person at a point of purchase . Both types of cards will have a web site where you can register the card and associate a physical address in the US with it for the purpose of online shopping . The web site will also show the activity on the card and its current balance . For reloadable cards , the registration is mandatory and you will do it as part of the process of purchasing the cards . For non-reloadable gift cards , it is optional , and only needed if you wish to use the card to make online purchases . ( And those virtual cards you mention are only usable online ; they can not be used in physical stores . ) Which type is better for you , I think only you can say . But I would think that a high-value non-reloadable card or two would be the way you would want to go here . My favorite place to get them is at shopping malls ; the mall customer service desk will sell them , generally in denominations up to $ 250 or $ 500 depending on the mall , usually for a fee of about $ 5 . Finally , a usage note : When your card gets near empty , you can instruct a merchant to charge the exact amount remaining on the card , and then pay the remaining balance via another payment method , as long as you are n't doing this at a restaurant , hotel or possibly gas station ( since these places may authorize an amount higher than the amount given and settle the exact amount a few days later ) . This allows you to empty out the card and not lose any money . You might also consider just using your own credit cards while in the US ; if they have a magnetic stripe and are Visa , MasterCard , American Express , etc. , they should work in most places in the US except for " pay at the pump " gas station pumps ( <URL> ) . You 'll usually get a good exchange rate , too , though this does seem to vary a lot by country and bank . Note that Maestro cards do not generally work for purchases here , though they work at most ATMs .
Check out <URL> . Freagle is like couchsurfing , instead of your couch you can offer your backyard , barn ... It 's not wild camping per se but it is trying to fill the gap between the <URL> wild camping and the normal camp site . And indeed , not so many hosts available . Still worth a try . My own experience with wild camping in Germany is positive if you keep simple rules in mind . Do n't camp in a bigger group Do n't campfire Do n't litter Keep yourself out of sight Do n't stay more than one night Do n't camp in a natural reserve ( from comments : thanks @amon ) Even if you get " caught " by a ranger or police they will ask you to move or make you pay a little fine . It is more or less a trivial offence in my opinion .
You would have to get a prepaid card ; but you wont be able to make calls to India from a prepaid number - a 20 Euro charge will probably give you around 5mins talktime to foreign countries before it is depleted ... Get one of those phone cards where you call a special number and you have much better rates ( " calling cards " , see comments ) ; the area around the Main Train station in Frankfurt should have shops who sell those cards . You are probably better off using skype to call home . Do n't buy anything at the Airport ; too expensive .
Own experience/common knowledge answer , so no links . If you booked a ticket on which there is no free cancelation within the last 24 hours , you owe the company the money . If you make it impossible to get the money from your debit card , you may be charged in an other way . Your best bet is to claim back from your travel insurance . Sometimes companies allow you to change your booking to a date in the future rather than canceling , you will not get back ( or not pay ) your money but you might be able to get the date changed to a date you can travel .
Cycling is generally very safe , particularly in Taito-ku . There are n't any bike lanes really but you 're free to cycle on the pavement , as long as you dismount when it 's too crowded . Furthermore drivers are used to cyclists , just keep tight to the left on bigger roads . Helmets are seldom worn , even by mothers with a kid on the front , one on the back and one strapped to their chest . Parking is a bit different . If you lock your bike up ( not that it 's really necessary , generally it 's very unlikely your bike will get stolen ) just anywhere , you 'll be either asked to move along or get a warning ticket stuck to it . Leave it too long and the council will lift it . Even designated parking areas ( usually outside stations ) often require a residency tag / pass from the council . As such I usually park outside convenience stores - allowed , and no chance of it getting moved . <URL> whilst cycling either - you 'll likely be stopped ( though they 're very polite and will do their best to explain in English ) . Other than that , Tokyo is great to bike around ! Perfect way to take in the sights , particularly within the Yamanote loop . ( Fellow Edinburger in Tokyo :) )
I also read a lot of blog posts and heard stories about bus travel in Peru being dangerous . However , all the ones I was on were pretty good . I travelled in semi-cama and full-cama class , with a variety of companies . No problems with any , and most were pretty good at being on time , unlike a couple I had in Argentina . I travelled at night from Cusco to Arequipa , Arequipa to Lima , Lima to Mancora and up to and crossed the Ecuadorian border at night too . No problems at all . I heard the same about Colombia too , people were shocked that I 'd travel , but think logically - these buses go through these areas every single day and night , several companies . If there were problems every day , it 'd be in the news . It 'd be huge . This does n't mean you will be fine . Odds are you will be , but accidents do happen occasionally , everywhere . Be aware , keep your valuables with you ( and NOT under your seat ) , and when possible , travel with someone else as well , or get to know the people around you .
I 'm not sure what you define as ' cheap , ' but I read up that Three provides the cheapest SIM plans for data overseas . After visiting several websites and then chatting with a Three chat operator , <URL> You 'll probably want to select 1 month , and then look down the list for exactly how much data you want . 12gb is from # 20 and Unlimited data is from # 26 for one month , which is a pretty good deal in my opinion . You 'll need an unlocked 3g or 4g phone to use the sim
The United Arab Emirates ( Dubai ) does not care about your religion : it 's not even asked on your landing card , because there is n't one ! I 've visited/passed through a dozen times and never been asked , and neither have I ever heard of anybody being asked . The only country in the region that I 'm aware of asking for your religion is Saudi Arabia , where you need to fill this out on the visa application form . I 've heard advice that entering either of " Atheist " or " Jewish " will cause your application to get extra scrutiny , I 'm again not aware of any rejections due to this -- and how would you prove that it 's this that caused the rejection anyway ? Last but not least , it 's not atheism that 's a sin in Islam , but <URL> : the act of converting away from Islam to anything else , be it Christianity , atheism or Pastafarianism . If you were never a Muslim in the first place , as far as a true believer is concerned you may be an idolatrous heathen or a godless fool , but you 've committed no sin .
I travelled to Erbil two months back . You should not have any issues but it is not advised to stay for many weeks . The same is not the case with Kirkuk and Sulaymaniyah . During my stay I was advised to not leave Erbil city because of possibility of widespread terror attacks . However , i am not sure if this qualifies for all types of trips . It is not a place for tourism at this point of time . However , if you are on some sort of business trip it should be quite safe .
According to the <URL> : The tap water in Albania may cause illness - you should drink only bottled water .
There are only three operators in Australia that actually own and operate their own networks , and they are : <URL> , the former state monopoly . My usual recommendation if you 're planning to travel even slightly off the beaten track , since they have the widest network by a long shot , but a bit more expensive than the competition . <URL> , an arm of Singapore 's SingTel , and a good choice if you want to save a few pennies and are sticking mostly to the cities . <URL> aka Vodafail , the local branch of the multinational , infamous for poor coverage and network instability issues and recommended only if you 're a masochist . As a representative anecdote , two friends of mine who worked for Vodafone had their wedding in Yarra Valley , a popular tourist destination just outside Melbourne , and the winery they chose , 1 km off the main highway , had zero Vodafone coverage . Both have now quit , and neither uses Vodafone any more ! All three have booths just outside Customs at both Sydney and Melbourne ( and probably other major airports too ) . I 'm not going to go into plan details , since these change at the drop of a hat , but at time of writing ( Dec 2014 ) Optus 's $ 2/day with 500MB/day plan is about as good as it gets . It 's probably worth mentioning that comparing plans in Australia is ( intentionally ) really difficult , since all operators work on a basis of giving you funny money and pricing everything in funny money . For example , paying $ 20 might get you $ 200 of " credit " , but phone calls then cost you $ 7/min ( actually $ 0.70 / min ) , and of course the ratio of real money to credit varies based on the operator and plan you pick . There are also " virtual operators " ( MVNO ) like <URL> and <URL> that license the big boys ' networks . They claim to be cheaper , and occasionally may be , but tend to have really shoddy customer support , puny data speed limits in the small print , etc. . The small savings are n't worth the potential for big hassle in my opinion , but YMMV . Source : Have used SIMs from all three companies , and seen my wife struggle with a MVNO I shall not deign to advertise . Currently on Telstra and happy with it .
Both in the Netherlands and Belgium you can buy semi-open tickets at the station for the other country . You can perfectly buy a national ticket for Belgium in the Netherlands and vice versa . The benefit of these tickets is that they have a validity window of 1 or 2 months . This is not the case if you buy train tickets in the respective countries self . So for local trips in Belgium you need to buy your tickets in the Netherlands and for your local tickets in the Netherlands you need to head to Belgium . Caveat : This does NOT work with tickets bought online , only with tickets issued at the train station .
Historically Seoul has had a number of issues with drinking water . Most recently the issue was n't the water itself , but the pipes that delivered it , which many people claimed introduced contaminates . I can still remember being told by someone I was working with there about 10 years ago that the water was safe to drink in my hotel , but not in their office block located a few blocks away - I 'm still not sure exactly how he came to that conclusion ! Over recent years the local government-run water supplier has made significant efforts to replace all of the " old " pipes , and has taken additional measures around treatment of water . The water is considered safe and drinkable under UN criteria , and although many locals still do not trust it , there 's little doubt that it 's as safe as tap water in any other major first-world city . There 's numerous more information available on <URL> website . Note that all of the above comments relate to the water in Seoul . If you 're heading outside of the main metropolitan area then things could be very different and I would suggest only drinking bottled water in those areas .
end question
start question
Do I need a visa to work remotely in Europe as a Canadian citizen for six weeks ?
De jure there are dozens of complex laws and regulations regarding remote employment , under which you may or may not need a special visa in order to work in a given country . Tax laws are an additional complication , where countries such as the UK can deem you as a tax resident for <URL> on British soil . De facto , as long as you do n't mention your remote job to immigration personnel at the airport , there 's a 99.99 % chance no one will ever find out . There are millions of people breaking the law by being employed at on-site jobs in any given country , so digital nomads are a pretty low priority for law enforcement .
If you are an Indian passport holder then you do need to apply for a transit visa . You can <URL> and hand them in at an Australian Visa Office in your country .
Per the <URL> , Egyptian citizens generally do need a visa to transit either landside or <URL> in London but can be exempted in some cases . Travelling to the US is one of those cases , having an EEA residence permit is another one . You might be eligible for the ' transit without visa concession ' if : you arrive and depart by air have a confirmed onward flight which leaves within 24 hours have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : [ ... ] you have a valid uniform format residence permit issued by an EEA state The first three conditions must be fulfilled to qualify , which seems to be the case for you . Your Greek residence permit gives you the right to enter Italy as both countries are part of the Schengen area ( I am assuming you have a <URL> , if not then this answer might not apply ) . But you only need to fulfill one of the other conditions in the list ( in fact , it seems impossible to fulfill them all ) and you told us that you do fulfill one of them ( namely having a residence permit by an EEA state , as Greece is indeed a member of the EEA ) . So flying to Italy instead of the US should not be a problem if you fulfill the other relevant conditions . That said , asking the embassy or even applying for a visa can not hurt if you want to be absolutely sure ( the visa does cost something ) . You can also ask your airline , as they will want to check your visa status before carrying you to the UK .
" Leave to enter " is short for " Leave to enter the United Kingdom " . It is defined in <URL> ... <URL> Six months was initially selected as the maximum amount of leave that can be given to a non-visa national because that interval ties in to lots of other legislation rooted in English common law where the interval of six months plays an important part . In the <URL> , the usage of six months is explicit per <URL> ... A visitor is a person who is coming to the UK , usually for up to six months , for a temporary purpose , for example as a tourist , to visit friends or family or to carry out a business activity . How is the six months counted ? Is it a number of days or is it six calendar months regardless of the number of days in each month ? Days have nothing to do with it . Sometimes six months can be 181 days or more and other times it can be 179 days or less . You add six months to the date on your leave to enter and that 's your expiry date . The counting method for corner cases where the person arrives on the 31st of the month is the final day of the 6th month . Examples : People granted leave to enter on 31 Aug 2015 should be gone by midnight 29 Feb 2016 . But consider that people granted leave to enter on 28 Feb 2015 should be gone by midnight 28 August 2015 . However , it is not carved in stone . People have tried taking some of these corner cases to court and have achieved mixed results depending upon what they were trying to accomplish . I have also seen a case where a silver-tongued individual was able to out whittle an official on a corner case and avoid an overstay penalty . Any ambiguities are built into the law from a long , long time back and they are not likely to become more precise in the current era because ' six months ' has a lot to do with a lot of things in the legislative framework . If you think you are in a corner case , it is best to query the IO on arrival what your expiry is . Related : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL>
The rules depend on the specific place you want to park and are always posted there . The city districts are in charge of parking so the specifics differ from district to district . At the moment mostly only to park in the dark red zones of the map below you need a parking ticket ( <URL> ) . Of course the districts need some <URL> after which they model their parking zones . According to section 3.1.4 parking should be generally free at the night and on Sundays . Parking is usually only charged Monday through Friday 9am to 8pm and Saturdays 9am to 6pm . The rules specifically mention the possibility to extend those times if needed in that place . So you always should check how the times are at the place you want to park ! In German that sounds this : Als Regelzeiten werden empfohlen : Montag bis Freitag 9-20 Uhr Sonnabend 9-18 Uhr . Die gesonderte Betrachtung der Advents-Sonnabende entfällt . In Einzelfällen mit hohem Gastronomie - und Freizeitanteil kann es sinnvoll sein , die Bewirtschaftungszeiten auf Grundlage entsprechender Untersuchungen in die Abendstunden und/oder auf den Sonntag auszudehnen . Die Bewirtschaftungszeiten sollten möglichst berlinweit einheitlich angewandt werden , um Irritationen der Autofahrer zu vermeiden . Translation off the top of my head : Recommended common time periods : Monday to Friday 9 a.m. -- 8 p.m. Saturday 9 a.m. -- 6 p.m. . A special consideration of Saturdays during advent is omitted . In singular cases with a high ratio of [ traffic related to ] gastronomy or leisure it may be sensible to extend [ parking space ] management time periods to the evening hours or Sunday based on suitable studies . Preferably the management time periods should be applied consistently across Berlin to avoid irritation among vehicle drivers .
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
Nepalese citizens require a visa to visit the UK . Having a residence permit from another EU/EEC country does not free you from any UK visitor visa requirements . A residence permit from an EU/EEC country may free you from transit visa requirements . I would however assume that a EU residence permit will ease the application process and make it more probable that your application will be granted .
I am afraid there is no temporary ( nonimmigrant ) visa that allows you to be a tourist and work at the same time ( except for H-1B , H-2B ) , and by work I mean getting paid by any US employer . As a Dutch citizen , you can enter under the visa waiver program which allows you enter for tourism/business/medical reasons only . You will not be allowed to work . To work in the US temporarily you need to have a H-1B visa , to obtain that you need to have a job offer from a US employer . If you managed to get that then you are allowed to work with this employer only and changing the employer is another story . So I do not think this fits your needs . Regarding WWOOF , their page makes it clear that <URL> . Anyway , since WWOOF is not a paid work neither volunteering it will be ok to become a WWOOFer with your tourist visa , according to their website : WWOOF is an opportunity to visit farms affiliated with our network for a cultural and educational exchange . Most people outside the United States who come WWOOFing use a holiday or tourist visa . Although many of the hosts on our network are associated with organic lifestyles and sustainability , it is important to note that persons associated with WWOOF-USA are travelers experiencing a wide variety of sustainable living situations and are not " workers " or " working " for wages or other remuneration in the United States . Bottom line , you need to change your plans a little , removing the " working in restaurants " part will make your trip possible and legal with a tourist visa , other option would be obtaining an immigrant visa which takes time and not as easy as nonimmigrant visa . For more information : <URL> .
I think you should not have any problem roaming around India on a valid business visa . Most places in India welcome foreigners and very rarely you will be stopped and asked for valid visa . if you carry your passport and visa copies along with you at all times - you should be fine .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
I 'd certainly submit that document . It might not be a government/airline , but it 's some evidence with your name on it indicating where and when you were . The suggested documents are useful because they 're common , accurate and hard to forge . They 're also often available . However , many people ( most ? ) do n't keep boarding passes , and in that case emails and bookings from hostels/hotels might suffice as well . It 's to provide reasonable indication - it 's not a court case ( yet ) and as such , providing what evidence you have , and a supplementary note if you feel it would help is always a good idea . In my experience , more information is better than gaps - gaps or missing info raises questions . If you have a document that answers those questions , that 's better for all involved .
State of Play 23 Feb 2015 The Home Office has prepared a set of substantially revised visitor rules which will be laid before Parliament this Thursday ( 26 Feb 2015 ) . The new rules , along with the new guidance , will answer questions like yours with much more clarity and resolution than the current rules/guidance . The rules will be unveiled on the Hansard site this Friday ( 27 Feb 2015 ) and activate in April . The Home Office site will be updated during March . Part of the new rules will be introducing volunteer work as a permitted activity for visitors ( tourists ) . Specifically ... Rule incidental volunteering for up to 30 days at a registered UK charity ; Interpretation " Incidental " is used here to mean the volunteering is not the main purpose of the visit . If the main purpose of your visit is to do volunteer work , you will not qualify . " registered UK charity " means an organisation listed on the <URL> . <URL> , for example , is listed on the register , so a visitor can do up to 30 days volunteer work at Oxfam so long as the volunteering is incidental to the person 's visit . Another example is the <URL> ( WWOOF ) . Their entry in the Charity Register is <URL> . The Charity Register has a search function that enables users to determine if a given organisation has a listing or not . If you can not find an organisation 's registration entry , it means they do not qualify . NOTE : Although volunteer work will be permitted , a visitor will not be able to serve as a director or trustee because these roles occur in other legislation . ALSO NOTE : The new rules will activate in April 2015 , you can not benefit from them until that time . ALSO NOTE : As always , it takes a long time for everyone to learn about new rules ( including Immigration Officers ) , so it 's recommended to print out the relevant text ( when it is published on the Home Office site ) and carry it with you . The rules will be posted at <URL> in April 2015 . Guidance will be posted on the <URL> site . ALSO NOTE : A listing on the Charity Register is not necessarily a permanent thing . If the organisation loses it 's registration , you will have to stop volunteering there or face possible sanctions . There are additional changes affecting visitors , but these are mostly about business visitors . Finally , the UK legal community was advised about these changes two weeks ago by a letter sent from the Home Office 's policy unit ; they should be ready by now to give advice if you need it . Adding 26 Feb 2015 As laid before Parliament earlier today , the new rules are <URL> . The relevant text for this law is ... A visitor may undertake incidental volunteering , provided it lasts no more than 30 days in total and is for a charity that is registered with either the Charity Commission for England and Wales ; the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland ; or the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator .
You do not need to pass through emigration when leaving the US . Unlike in most countries , US airports do not have dedicated international areas . The airline staff will check your passport and collect any documents you are required to hand in when you leave the country . Thus , this will not affect your connection in MSP . If the itinerary is being offered as a single ticket , the airline clearly believes that most passengers will be able to make that connection . This seems quite feasible if both flights are from the same terminal at MSP ( very probable if it is the same airline ) . You 'll probably be checked into both flights at LAX and only have to get between gates at MSP . This can be accomplished <URL> within the same terminal ( less if you are really in a hurry ! ) . If you need to <URL> ( <URL> ) , this becomes much trickier . You 'll need to take a train ( runs every 10 minutes ) and than you will need to go through security again at the other end . I suspect that you will not need to change terminals . Note however , that if there is any delay in the inbound flight , even if you are able to race to the departure gate , the odds of your checked-in luggage making the transfer is not good . Also , keep in mind that any non-trivial delay will cause you to miss your connection . They will try rerouting you if you miss your connection because of a delay in the first flight . However , there is no way of knowing how long or convoluted that rerouting will be . You may easily lose a whole day . Consider how important not being delayed is to you . If it is critical , this may not be a chance you 're willing to take .
No for both countries : Peru : With a few exceptions ( notably some Asian , African and communist countries ) , visas are not required for travelers entering Peru . Tourists are permitted a 30 - to 90-day stay , which is stamped into their passports and onto a tourist card , called a Tarjeta Andina de Migración ( Andean Immigration Card ) , that you must return upon leaving the country . The actual length of stay is determined by the immigration officer at the point of entry . Read more : <URL> Bolivia : Citizens of most South American and Western European countries can get a tourist card on entry for stays up to 90 days , depending on the nationality . Read more : <URL> I had no problem getting 90 days each on the borders .
In general , you need a visa as an Indonesian passport holder . The only exemption , which applies to you , is where you have a re-entry visa and a travel plan including travel tickets to a country like the USA or Canada . If you have a re-entry visa to the US , and you do not plan to stay in Korea longer than 30 days , you can enter <URL> , bound for the USA as a holder of a re-entry visa to the USA .
Yes . The US does not have airside transit , you will need a C-1 transit visa or B-2 visitor visa .
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
The <URL> site refers visa applications to the <URL> . According to this site , they have locations in London , Manchester , Stockholm , Gothenburg , Copenhagen , The Hague , Brussels , Paris , Marseilles , Milan , Rome and Madrid . The terms of their online application state that applicants must be a citizen or resident of the country where the application is made . ordinary passport holders who are UK citizens and citizens of other countries possessing UK permanent residence or work permits However , you may be able to make an application in person at one of these locations or at a Chinese embassy or consulate in Europe . As <URL> have reported success doing this . At the consulate in Goteborg , Sweden all we had tp produce were our passports , the completed application form with the passport sized pics and the money for the visa . In fact it all went very smoothly .
I 've lived in Calgary and Toronto , so I can speak generally about Canada . In larger cities ( i.e. Toronto , Montreal , Vancouver ) , USD is sometimes acceptable at shops near the airport or in tourist areas , although you wo n't get a good rate . In cities like Winnipeg , Calgary , Edmonton , do n't expect that USD will be acceptable anywhere but at the airport . Your best bet would be to convert some of your money to CAD while in Winnipeg .
If your phone charger , and your laptop are relatively new , they should work in Europe as-is , so you only need to bring the power plug adapter . I 've never seen a single-voltage phone/laptop charger in more than ten years . Razor however is different . Even if it says 110/240 , it still might not work due to frequency difference ( i.e. it will work in South Korea with 230V/60Hz , but might not work in France with 220V/50Hz ) . I had a Philips razor which was like that . Note that " razor outlets " provided in bathroom hotels rarely change frequency , only the voltage .
end question
start question
What is the protocol for taking a last minute cruise ?
I 've been told by friends who have worked with cruise lines that you can always just try calling on the day , or the night before , and can often get an astonishing deal . ( It does n't always work , though . )
The general advice when bringing medication is bring it in the original packaging . In the case of the prescription this includes the sticker with your name , doctor 's name , date etc. . Never just bring two or three loose pills in some other container if you have a copy of the prescription , or your receipt with your name , bring that too if the item does n't require a prescription where you live , but is controlled where you 're going , bring a letter from your doctor ( something I did recently bringing Sudafed to New Zealand ) declare on the landing card if they ask about medication ( do n't just say yes to the question , circle the word in the question , see <URL> ) and be prepared to answer questions about your landing card My experience coming into a variety of countries ( but not the UK ) with prescription drugs is that they ask " what medication do you have ? " and I say something very short , eg " antimalarials for Vanuatu " and that 's the end of the conversation and nothing happens . But you need the paperwork etc to back you up in case they want more details . Since you have no paperwork and probably do n't have the right container , do n't make things worse by not declaring . If the landing card asks about medications , say yes . Be prepared to tell someone what the medication is and what it 's for ( eg " an antibiotic " or " for my asthma " or whatever it is . ) It 's most likely that no-one will care , but if you run into someone who does , the fact you were open about having it is more likely to get you through without your meds confiscated .
Short answer is none , you 'll be able to apply for visas and enter anywhere , although it may require some explaining . Here 's <URL> ( which presumably deals with this all the time ) as an example , and a <URL> : Single names are quite common in eg . southern India , Indonesia and Mongolia , and thus embassy staff are reasonably used to dealing with them ; a single-named Indonesian friend of mine had more problems dealing with smaller bureaucracies like ( in the US ) library cards , university IDs , etc. . She usually ended up duplicating her name or creating a fake initial : " H Henny " , " Henny Henny " , etc. .
I had to deliver exactly that some months ago . It is right what you described , and it makes not much sense at all , but that 's what they want . A ' notary public ' is a very common side-qualification , every office has typically one or two people that carry it . What you do is make photocopies of your ( Green Card ) , the go to a Notary Public show your ID , and sign in front of the notary public that you confirm that the copy is identical with the original they give you a seal that confirms that they saw your ID and they saw you signing . Note that the seal does not need to be on the photocopy ( but it can ) . This was accepted without questions , and - I asked them - that 's what they wanted . Of course , that leaves various obvious avenues of cheating - you can bring a picture of your dog instead of the requested photocopy , and the notary public would not care ; and you can replace the photocopies after the sealed stamp is signed , as they are on different - not physically connected - sheets of paper . The core point is that you signed it , and the notary just verifies that is was you that signed . If anything turns out wrong or fishy , they know whom to talk to - you signed it for correctness . There are probably better ways - like have the notary public make the photocopies and put the seal physically onto them - but that is not what is done in the USA . For whatever reasons .
I was back-packing in Latin America for 20 months and took my camera everywhere . But it was only a 400 dollar point and shot which fits in my trouser pocket . I used that camera everywhere maybe except inside the favelas in Brazil . Some friends of mine had bigger SLRs with them and used them a lot too . In Bolivia I met a guy who was there for National Geographic and had some of the biggest photographic gear I 've ever seen . I find quotes like ' nearly every corner of their city is dangerous ' ridiculous , I walked around all over the place in most big cities in South America , but was more careful in the dark . If you are primarily after landscape and animal pictures , you should be fine . In the cities , keep the big gear in a bag and use a smaller camera instead . I made two backups of new photos every evening and stored them in different parts of my luggage . You can always get a new camera , but the photos are gone if the camera is stolen . Online backups are not always possible due to slow internet access . My camera was eventually stolen in La Paz .
<URL> operates a car ferry between Hirtshals ( Denmark ) and Seyðisfjörður ( Iceland ) , via Tórshavn ( Faroe Islands ) , generally making one trip per week .
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
You can go by public buses to Port of Miami . I can not give you specific details since I do not know from where you will take the bus . <URL> will offer a great help . Please note if you take a bus you will have to walk from the bus station to the terminal which is a ~ 10 minutes walk . It is advised to go by car and get dropped off at the terminal . You need to reach the terminal minimum of 2 hours in advance , as mentioned in the <URL> . Anyway different cruise companies have different rules : Passengers should arrive at least two hours prior to departure . Check with your cruise line for the latest embarkation/debarkation information . Security procedures , prohibitions and documentation requirements vary by cruise line or destination . Contact your cruise line for details about the specific requirements and restrictions for your itinerary . Regarding pre-boarding and luggage procedures , since you will pass a TSA check as mentioned in the official website then you will pass a metal detector and your luggage will pass X-ray scanners just like any airport .
Based on the way that rate is presented on the website you pointed us to , I would say that it is simply a discounted rate , that is called an " Innkeepers Rate " ie a special deal offered the Innkeeper himself/herself . Hotels can get quite creative with their discount program names trying to build the perceived value . Most professional rates , such as the innkeeper rate mentioned in the link in Spehro 's post , are not posted on websites , rather they are only revealed to qualified patrons . Many hotels offer special rates to different professional groups : travel agents , airline employees , corporate employees with special contract rates , etc but these rates are never revealed to the general public .
<URL> These are the <URL> as defined by ICAO . Looking at <URL> you can see that the ISO 3166-1 codes are used both to identify the issuing country as well as the nationality of the passport holder . So your cousin 's passport seems to be correct . For completeness sake note that ARE is also the NATO 3-letter code for United Arab Emirates .
Hotels , like most travel services , work very much on a supply-and-demand basis . If the demand is high , then prices will go up , and eventually hotels will sell out even at the higher prices . If the demand is low , prices do sometimes come down over time - although frequently the hotels themselves will not want to drop their prices below a certain level , which is where opaque bookings like Hotwire/Priceline come in , selling the hotels excess inventory depending on how many free rooms they have . Priceline/Hotwire prices definitely do vary significantly night-to-night for the same properly , based primarily on the hotels expected occupancy rates . This means that as the date gets closer , the price may drop , but it may also rise or even not be available at all . Depending on the size of the event you 're attending it 's even possible that it will have an impact on the number of rooms available - frequently it 's difficult to find any rooms available in an area , let alone cheap rooms , if there is a major conference/sporting event/etc occurring at the time . As the event gets closer , room availability gets lower , prices get higher , and opaque booking venders end up getting allocated zero rooms to sell ! If you must have a hotel , it 's often a good idea to find somewhere with a good cancellation policy ( eg , allowing you to cancel up until at least a day or two before the event ) - this gives you the certainty of having somewhere to stay if prices go up , but also allows you to keep looking/bidding for cheaper rooms as the date gets closer . If you find somewhere cheaper , simply cancel your initial reservation !
As far as I know there is no such website or app that allows to book last-minute cheap flights . So you have to use any of the well-known services . In particular , the flight trip between Barcelona and Madrid ( or viceversa ) is known as " puente aereo " ( literally " aerial bridge " ) and in general the cheapest company that operates this route is <URL> ( 13 flights per day ) . Prices starts from 50-70 $ but it depends on the schedule . Also the high-speed train is a good option and the bus is the cheapest option .
You are actually asking two separate questions : When my cruise ship stops in Victoria , will the Canadian border people let me come into the country for a day visit without a passport ? When my cruise ship , which was at least briefly in another country , returns to the USA and I want to get off it ( probably in Alaska for some day activities , but very certainly in Seattle when you want to return to your home ) will I be allowed into the United States without a passport ? There was a time when US citizens could come into Canada without a passport , with drivers licenses and such like . It 's possible that at the cruise terminal you could get by with less than a passport . Here is <URL> . Note the birth certificate to prove US citizenship along with the drivers license to prove you are the person named on the birth certificate . If your name has changed since you were born you 'll need paperwork to establish the identity chain . I would n't risk it myself , but the worst case here is that you are n't allowed to go have your day trip . US citizens do n't need visas to visit Canada , but without a passport , how do the border people know you 're a US citizen ? It 's not a requirement for boarding cruise ships , getting drivers licenses , and so on . The second case is much more serious . You want to be sure you will be let back in . Current rules say that <URL> , even if it stops in other countries . Essentially they are trusting the cruise ship not to take on random passengers in the foreign ports and help them enter the US . That said , they still recommend you have a passport just to make life smoother . ( Here 's <URL> - you can probably find a similar page on the site of the cruise provider you 're considering . ) So if there is a reason why just getting a passport is n't an option , the cruise is n't impossible ( US businesses have found ways to deal with the fact people just wo n't get passports ) but life will be smoother if you have one . I 'd recommend getting one .
The reciprocity fee is currently US$ 160 for US citizens , and can now be paid online in advance via the website <URL> . There is a PDF guide on paying the fee <URL> ( The entire guide is in English except for the country name of the US , which is in Spanish - " Estados Unidos " ) Not surprisingly , this matches the fee the US charges for non-immigrant visa applications , which is currently <URL> - that 's why it 's called a " reciprocity fee " .
I lived in DC/Northern VA area for the past four years . I can tell you riding Metro in the city is the way to go . Traffic in DC is very bad and on top of that the roads can be very very confusing for visitors . The worst part is probably the parking . During prime tourist hours , it 's almost impossible to find one . I do n't know which part of Maryland you 'll be becoming from . If you 're coming from the Red Line ( Shade Grove ) area , then I recommend driving to the Bethesda station and park there . If you 're coming from Red Line ( Glenmont ) area , I recommend parking at the Silver Spring station . The stations in the suburbs have parking lots ( they charge by the hours , or a maximum of $ 5ish per day ) , where as most of the ones inside of DC do n't . If you plan to do some sightseeing in the city , check out the official <URL> Most of the tourist spots are Metro accesible . You can also check out all the metro stations wrt to the tourust spots on <URL> There are different types of Metro cards you can get . <URL> : works like a plastic credit card . you can buy these at MD/VA grocery stores . You start with a $ 20 value , and can add more $ to it later . I think the best deal for visitors is the One Day Pass . For $ 9 , It is valid for one day of unlimited Metro travel on weekdays after 9:30 a.m. or all day on Saturdays , Sundays .
Always , ALWAYS get a metered taxi . If the taxi driver says no meter , get a different one . Meters almost always run cheaper than the flat rate taxis . Also , know where you are going . I usually have my iPhone with GPS so I can watch where we are going in case the diver decides to circle the block a few times . Getting to know the major street names is also good advice . 15 minutes with a map and a marker and you can save yourself a ton of money . EDIT : You can ask the desk person at your hotel or hostel which cabs are reliable and trustworthy . EDIT 2 : Also , just a personal comment here . I 'm an expat . I 've been living in Taiwan for about 4 years now . I speak Mandarin reasonably well and can even yell some stuff in Taiwanese when the occasion calls for it . Yet , I still get scammed sometimes . Over a long enough timeline , it will happen ... but the goal is to mitigate the amount of times it happens and how much they get from you .
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
I wound up using <URL> and had no problems . It took around two weeks from application to the return of my passport with the visa in it .
You 're very unlikely to get them rejected if you go through an agency , as they 'll make sure you have all the right information before they submit it to the various government departments . I use <URL> in 2008 to get a tourist visa , and this year for a 3 month double entry business visa , and both times they were fantastic . Both Mongolia and China you can apply for on the road , at embassies or consulates , or just go directly to the websites and fill in the forms and take them to the embassies in London . They 're fairly straightforward , it 's only Russia that is tricky . China I even got at the border last time I went , although I would n't rely on that . One more point - booking the train tickets from outside is FAR more expensive than booking in the countries themselves . I 've just arrived in Volgograd after 34 hours from St Petersburg , and I booked that with 4 hours to go , so there 's really no problem getting tickets in either Kupe or Platzkart classes . Just a thought , it 'll save you a lot if you 're able to be flexible , unless you 're able to get a massive discount by buying the whole lot . It 's tricky to use , but <URL> has the local prices and availability for trains , if you 'd like to have a look and compare . City names must be entered in Cyrillic , but Google Translate does that quite easily for you . Good luck , it 's a fantastic experience .
There is a question exactly like yours on <URL> . The gist of the answers is : Noone cares . Taxis do n't have car seats to offer and you 're not required to have them to travel with kids , so your wife holding your 3 month old will be just fine . Normally most countries ( and states ) exempt taxis from child safety seat requirements . <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Can I get Diamox over the counter in Nairobi ?
I just walked in to a pharmacy in Nairobi ( at Yaya Center , to be exact ) to ask for Diamox . They do have it over the counter . No prescription is necessary . It is 50 Ksh per tablet ( a little over USD 0.50 ) .
Firstly - more for the benefit of anyone else in this situation in the future - Vietnam Airlines should rebook you for free if your flight is scheduled to depart earlier than planned : <URL> The same link also alludes to compensation for delays of over 4 hours ; for the benefit of anyone who speaks Vietnamese , it 's in regulation 14/2015/TT-BGTVT . In the case of a flight from Ho Chi Minh City or Hanoi to Siem Reap , that would be 25 USD as both flights are under 1000km . It 's not clear to me whether this would also apply to an early departure , but regardless it does only apply if you 're told about it less than 24 hours in advance . From personal experience , it 's not uncommon for Vietnamese carriers to cancel flights on their more frequent routes , and to do so relatively close to departure ( but more than 24 hours in advance ) . My educated assumption would be that if they can fit everyone onto three flights say , rather than four , they 'll gladly cancel the fourth .
Not quite sure what the question is . You could book a tourist trip to the USA and ask for a visa for that . If you want to wait till April 20th after you get the ticket you need to check the <URL> to get a visa interview appointment and the processing time . I checked for Chennai and it 's a week to appointment and one working day to get a visa . Delhi is only 2 days longer . Aka you have enough time . Or are you asking whether you will be given the visa just for that ? We ca n't answer that . Attending a conference is a perfect reason for a <URL> but whether you have enough ties and funds is something only they will decide .
As of January 2015 : Lounge = no , basic refreshments = yes There are two pertinent BAEC FlyerTalk threads covering this : <URL> <URL> Based on that , until the new terminal building is finished at some point in the next year , there is no lounge that BA is using . ( BA are n't using the Swissport one ) . On arriving at the terminal , you 'll clear first security , then get to checkin . After checking , you 'll then go through another set of security . Finally , after that , you 'll be directed to a waiting area at the gate . If you 're flying in First or Club World , or have suitable BA / OneWorld status , you 'll be directed into a different seating area . In here you 'll apparently find a trestle table with some refreshments on . Looks to be snacks , some soft drinks , some booze , and some newspapers . You can find photos of what it was like a few months ago in the threads
The metro is only $ 1,70 per ride , and if you buy a carnet of 10 the price is $ 13.30 for all 10 . Probably your best bet . I hate cycling because of the issues with locking it up , worrying about theft , and if you 're in the upper arrondissements going uphill on cobblestone sounds like a miserable experience I would rather spare myself from . The city is surprisingly small , with a most of it very walkable ( especially the major tourist attractions ) . Over three days I imagine 10 tickets is more then enough for the two of you . Tip : After you 've validated your ticket , do n't forget to hang on to it for the duration of your ride . My girlfriend once lost hers and had the unfortunate experience of random ticket inspection upon exiting the subway station : Where a guy with a machine asks to see your ticket , and if you do n't have one that 's validated , he has a fancy debit machine to collect $ 40 :-)
Normally you being there in plenty of time should ensure you are the first-came , and excess passengers would be put on after the rest of you . However , this is Greyhound we 're talking about , and to further complicate , this is Thanksgiving , the day of the year rules just do n't apply ;) According to <URL> : As the ticket policy suggests , Greyhound does not assign you a seat when you buy a ticket . If you show up at 8 AM for your 8 AM bus , the bus may be full . If you show up at 7:30 AM and the bus line already has 55 people in it , you may not get to ride that bus . If you 're riding for your first time , you will get a good seat on your bus if you arrive an hour ahead of time , and will probably catch it ( unless you need to check bags ) if you arrive fifteen minutes ahead of time . For the expert , how early you show up can be calculated by four variables : ( 1 ) Are you checking bags ? ( 2 ) Is your bus " originating ? " ( 3 ) Is your departure station popular ? ( 4 ) Is the route popular ? If you 're checking bags , you will have to wait in line . Depending on station , you may have to wait in the general ticketing line . At peak times , there can be 30 people in the general ticketing line -- all of which have urgent needs . You do n't have a choice about waiting , so budget 15-30 minutes . An " originating " bus means that your bus will be empty when boarding begins . If your bus is originating , you can show up later , because more seats will be available . If your departure station is popular ( i.e. a large city ) , more people will be in line , so budget another 15 minutes . If the route is popular ( and most are , especially on the weekends and at night ) , you may wish to budget another 15-30 minutes . Your best situation is an originating bus , leaving from small town X , at 10 AM . Your worst situation is a North Hollywood bus originating in Los Angeles , CA going to San Francisco at 10 PM on a Friday night . So given all that , I 'd try and get there as early as you possibly can . Because after all , this is Thanksgiving , and you 'll already be thankful you have a seat ;)
Yes you can , portable electronic devices ( PEDS ) are divided into few categories , some of them are : PEDs allowed all the times : such as some medical devices . They are allowed during all phases of the flight , for example some medical oxygen devices . PEDs allowed during cruise : Most of the electronic devices are in this category , you can use them during the cruise phase of the flight , not allowed during critical phases ( take off , landing , taxiing , . etc ) . This include laptops , MP3 players , tablets . etc. . PEDs not allowed at all : Some devices are not allowed during the flight at all times , such as walkie talkies . These devices could interfere with the operation of the aircraft hence they are strictly prohibited . In the past few years things have changed a bit , for example cell phones used to be prohibited at all times but with the new airplanes they are allowed during cruise in major airlines , you can even use them and make calls . Same thing for WiFi , new airplanes have WiFi connection which will be available in the cruise phase . In general , it is the airline 's responsibility to show what devices are allowed and when during the safety demonstration . Things are different from an airline to another but in general these categories are the same .
I just found an interesting article in the <URL> . CINCINNATI ( USA ) - Champagner , Schokolade und totale Diskretion : Das bekommt , wer bei Flamingo Air den " Mile High Special " -- sprich das " Sex im Flugzeug " - Arrangement -- bucht . Unfortunately the article is in German , but the headline says more or less : Champagne , chocolate , and total confidentiality : This is what Flamingo Air offers as their Mile High Special , i.e. whoever will book the " Sex on Board of a Plane " arrangement will get this . So there seems really to be a company that offers such services . And obviously I do n't think I will get into trouble if using such a dedicated service . Their story seems to be true . A quick Google search revealed that other newspapers in English are also reporting about this company . And even on the website of Flamingo Air , this service is mentioned . Funnily , there it is called <URL> .
This depends on which locals you want to speak to . If you 're in the cities , you should have no trouble at all speaking Spanish to practically anyone . If you venture out into the country side , Spanish is more the trade language , and several local languages are used more commonly . Even in such places you should have no trouble using Spanish to conduct business , but if you are invited to a local 's home , you may have a difficult time discussing personal family matters using only Spanish . Note this <URL> : The main reason that indigenous languages and cultures have been able to survive here is the rugged terrain , which isolate communities . So the answer to your question : Can you get by with only Spanish , is a resounding yes . If you look hard enough , though , in the right places , you will find people with whom you can not communicate at all .
According to the <URL> site , both Canadian and US citizens are eligible ( and only US/Canada citizens ) . The program is only for the Canadian border ( northern land crossings , US immigration checkpoints in Canadian airports and NEXUS kiosks at various marine entry points ) . It costs $ 50 to get the card , you do n't need to pay to use it . It replaces your passport for land and marine crossings between the US and Canada . Air travel between US and Canada still requires a Passport , although a Nexus card can expedite customs clearance in airports . For US citizens and green card holders ( and citizens of Mexico and Holland ) there 's also a <URL> program , which is similar in nature . It appears that the programs are being connected/merged , but I 'm not sure what 's going on exactly .
Legally , you can book a hotel room if you are 18 in the state of Washington . I believe this is true in most parts of the U.S. , but there may be exceptions for particular states . Some hotels have policies with a higher minimum age , such as 21 . However , this is far from universal . You might have to do a little bit of extra research , including checking hotel websites , emailing , or calling for confirmation . However , I do n't think you 'll have a big problem finding a room .
You can get Biometrics for a Canadian Visa done at any USCIS Application Support Center ( ASC ) . The list of <URL> . You can find the instructions for attending an ASC on the <URL> - scroll down to the section entitled " If applying from within the United States "
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
My parents just visited Niagara Falls last week ( 12 , 13 and 14 September ) from New York , they too visited only the US side . And , one weekend before my parents , my colleague visited their with his family ( after his reviews I planned tour for my parents ) . So , as told by all of them and after seeing the pictures they have taken , I can assure you that the view at this time is same as seen over google pictures . Level of water and crowd visiting Niagara falls is good enough to make this tour a cherish-able tour . Although my parents has taken 3 days and 2 nights tour ( including Washington DC , Philadelphia , Watkins Glen Tour ) but they were very much impressed and happy with the Niagara Falls place . If you visit the same by anytime end of October it will be good time for visiting that place .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
When in doubt , follow the instructions given by the foreign consulate . You ca n't really go wrong ; worst case , they 'll tell you what to do and it should n't be a radical difference from the posted information . They seem to process things very quickly , and the process is very similar to the process for getting a US visa from Canada ( which I 've done ) . So I will answer as if you have not read the page you linked :P Yes , <URL> . <URL> ( possibly now outdated ) has the details for the " L " tourist visa . Previously the submission requirements included : Your US passport and a copy of its information page A photo of yourself , subject to the usual requirements of size etc. . The completed visa application form $ 130
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
Even if you 're with a tour group , you almost all enter at the same point , and will be buying tickets at the gate . It 's important to note that while there 's generally a few thousand a day at Machu Picchu , they severely restrict the numbers each day for Huayana Picchu . So if you want one of those ( 2x200 I believe ) , you need to make sure you 're on the first bus up there , or speak to your tour guide about getting there early . Fight for it if you have to - it 's totally worth it . As @Itai says , it 's steep , and take insect repellent ( never been bitten so much in my life ) but the view from the top is totally worth the climb :)
Yes I have heard from authorities of Shremetyevo airport that this airport remain open in night time and seems very pleasant during night also and you can enjoy your stay there . But I have no experience staying there .
end question
start question
Are visa requirements for a Tunisian entering Ceuta or Melilla the same as for mainland Spain ?
Ceuta and Melilla are administered by Spain ( though Morocco disputes their sovereignty over the cities ) . Both countries maintain border controls at the borders and Spain has built border fences around both cities . Residents of the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador have a special local border crossing scheme whereby <URL> ( but they can not enter mainland Spain or the rest of the Schengen area ) . Moroccan nationals living in other provinces can obtain a limited territorial validity visa from Spain for those cities only . ( b ) The specific arrangements for visa exemptions for local border traffic between Ceuta and Melilla and the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador shall continue to apply . ( c ) Moroccan nationals who are not resident in the provinces of Tetuan or Nador and who wish to enter the territory of the towns of Ceuta and Melilla exclusively shall remain subject to the visa requirement . The validity of these visas shall be limited to these two towns and may permit multiple entries and exits ( " visado limitado múltiple " ) in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 ( 3 ) and Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1990 Convention . Notably , while the cities are part of the Schengen area , there are passport checks upon departure by air or ferry , in order to ensure that Moroccan visitors without visas and illegal immigrants can not migrate to Europe or elsewhere . ( e ) Pursuant to its national law and in order to verify whether passengers still satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the 1990 Convention on the basis which they were authorised to enter national territory upon passport control at the external border , Spain shall maintain checks ( on identity and documents ) on sea and air connections departing from Ceuta and Melilla and having as their sole destination any other place on Spanish territory . To the same end , Spain shall maintain checks on internal flights and on regular ferry connections departing from the towns of Ceuta and Melilla to a destination in another State party to the Convention . There 's no provision that I can find for Tunisian nationals , so it appears that <URL> .
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
The authoritative answer is at <URL> , but I 'll summarize for posterity . Whoever you 're staying with , be it hotel or apartment , is supposed to take care of registering you . They can take care of the registration at any police station or post office , you do not need to be present . When it 's done , they 'll get a piece of paper for you that confirms registration , and all is good . If you do not register , and you 're stopped by police , and it 's been over seven working days since you arrived in Russia , you 'll be fined ( & euro ; 50-100 ) . In theory , you can even be deported and blacklisted for returning for 5 years , but this is very unlikely . In your case , I 'd get in touch with whoever is renting you the apartment and ensure they sort it out , the magic word is propiska ( registration ) . It 's in their best interest to do so as well , since they can also get fined even more heavily for having unregistered foreigners staying with them .
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
The general consensus on the web seems to be that <URL> : Go through a travel agent . Apply for a visa with the Chinese embassy in your home country . Go to Hong Kong and spend a few days waiting for the visa to be processed . According to <URL> , going via a travel agency will involve shipping your passport to a neighbouring country/republic with a Chinese embassy . If however you feel like going on a visa run in Hong Kong , note that <URL> of which 4 were needed to process the visa application . There seems to be a reliable travel agent , <URL> , with a desk at the airport just outside of immigration which can help with this type of procedures . Indeed , <URL> as the 2007 guy , dating 2013 , mentions this company and the straightforward visa application procedure .
An acquaintance of mine has traveled extensively throughout Africa -- every country bar Rwanda and Somalia , to be precise -- and he did it using six different passports , with no problems . ( And before you ask , he 's a diplomat , and you need a lot of passports when traveling to tinpot dictatorships that take weeks to process visa applications ... ) In case that 's not enough , I 'll also note that : There no supranational authority in Africa that could impose that kind of requirement . The African Union is a paper tiger , and not all African countries belong to it anyway . Even if such a requirement were to be imposed , there 's no way it could possibly be enforced , given that immigration checkpoints at quite a few African borders consist of a bored guy sitting in a hut with a pen and a notebook .
I was searching on the internet and I found this <URL> from the Embassy of Macedonia , Berlin <URL> In this document , it is mentioned that , Any foreign national , holder of valid travel document of a third country , who is required to have visa for entry in the Republic of Macedonia , may enter the territory of the Republic of Macedonia without having to acquire Macedonian visa , if the foreigner has a permanent residence in EU or Schengen member state This confirms that you can enter Macedonia without having a Macedonian visa if you have a valid passport and a permanent EU Residence Permit . Note : The residence permit that you have must be permanent . What is a Permanent residence permit ? A permanent residence permit is an EU residence permit with unlimited validity . If you have an expiry on your residence permit , then it is not a permanent residence permit and it is not sufficient .
The fare basis is the airline 's identifier of your exact air fare . This is usually an impenetrable looking 7-to-8 letter string like . The extended version of this is the fare construction , which adds in key details like what flight from where to where this air fare is for . The fare class is simply the first letter of the fare basis , which identifies <URL> and often maps directly to how many frequent flyer miles you 'll get for the flight . This is also known as booking class or , confusingly , ticket class . Finally , travel class is the class of the physical seat you end up in on the plane : first , business , premium economy , economy , etc. . An illustrated example of all four for the same ticket , from long to short : Fare construction : ( Cape Town on Turkish Airways transfer at Istanbul on Turkish Airways to New York City $ 406.06 for fare basis TA2PXOW ... ) Fare basis : Fare class : , <URL> Travel class : Economy
As I understand your situation , you 've made quite the mess . You lied about the purpose of your visit on your first application , were refused , and now wish to apply for substantially the same trip , presumably without too much time in between , with a different purpose . That is bad , yes . So you 're proposing one of two options : Admit that you lied before and explain the true reasons for your travel . The problem is that you 'll be admitting to deception , and so your new application will have a major credibility problem . Pretend like nothing happened and make a new application . The problem here is that the consular officer can plainly see your previous refusals and will wonder why your tourist trip has turned into a business trip with the exact same itinerary . This looks both desperate and untruthful . Genuine applicants do not change the purpose for their trip . A history of further refusals will only make the problem worse at this point . The best thing to do at this point would be for your company to engage a qualified German immigration lawyer to help make a new application . You should explain to this lawyer the full details of your previous application and denial .
No , you do n't need a transit visa - as long as you do n't leave the transit lounge . But be sure about your change with airlines/planes , as there are two airports in Istanbul . You may read detailed information on the <URL> . Edit ( not by Mahmut ) to include extract from part of the referenced website : Question : I will be flying to Europe . I know that our aircraft will land in İstanbul . I am not planning to leave the transit lounge . Do I need to get transit visa ? Answer : If you will not leave the transit lounge at the airport you are not required to have transit visa . The above to attempt to clarify that in the above circumstances the nationality of the traveller appears irrelevant ( though so does " I will be flying to Europe " , and interlining of luggage is not covered by the extract ) .
Since you are a citizen of the European Union you do not need a visa to travel to any other EU country . UK is not part of the Schengen Area , so you only need a passport ( or national identity card ) to cross the border and that 's it . <URL> : Individuals from the following countries can enter the Schengen Area , Bulgaria , [ 3 ] Cyprus , [ 4 ] and Romania [ 5 ] without a visa : As of right , using a passport or national identity card - Citizens of European Union member states and their special territories
The validity of the license from a foreign country would be determined by that country . So if that country 's license becomes invalid when you leave the country or your residence permit expires you have no license to drive with in California . The <URL> is usually a translation of your actual driver 's license into many languages ( including English ) and needs to be accompanied by a government issued driver 's license .
I wound up using <URL> and had no problems . It took around two weeks from application to the return of my passport with the visa in it .
The work permit allows you to live and work in Canada , on a temporary basis . The requirements for such are on the <URL> online . Note the requirements are above and beyond having just the work permit - you need proof she is only visiting temporarily , for example . However , once you have a work permit , that works as a visa - you do n't need an additional tourist visa to enter the country .
From experience , it comes down to the decision on the day by the person processing your application . In essence , they 're looking for flags , problems or reasons NOT to grant your application . Your job is to plug those holes , answer questions and make it as smooth as possible . In this case , the ' flag ' is going to be ' needs three years tax returns , only has two ' . So they 'll look for a reason validating this . If you have added a document ( single page ) stating that you 've only been working two years , and have provided all tax returns from your entire work history , that should satisfy them that there 's 1 ) nothing missing , 2 ) nothing being hidden and 3 ) the ' question ' of the missing tax year has been answered . Short version : document any gap / discrepancy in your application . It 's very hard to have ' too much ' documentation .
The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : All foreigners , required or not to obtain a short stay visa , who wish to enter France must have a 30.000 Euros health insurance that covers all Schengen territory . " Strange that the same requirement is not mentioned in the <URL> . The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : To reduce risks or delays in the border it is advisable to : Hire an international insurance , valid for Europe during the period of stay in the Schengen territory with a coverage of at least $ 30.000,00 for medical or hospital expenses . Even though it is not mandatory for entrance in the Netherlands , some other countries in the Schengen territory require this insurance . Additionally , I looked a few other ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) embassies sites in Brazil and none of them mention the health insurance requirement Besides that , it is common sense in Brazil that a Brazilian who wish to travel to Europe , must have this 30.000 EUR health insurance . For instance , credit cards like <URL> or <URL> advise that they will give such insurance if the airline tickets are bought using the credit card . A few travel forums and sites like <URL> ( backpackers ) or <URL> ( talking about travel ) also mention the need to have such health insurance . All in all , it 's hard to say if the health insurance is really mandatory or no . Evidences suggest it is not for brazilians , besides the common sense , but I just ca n't be sure .
The UK Business Visitor Visa is <URL> so your question has limited life . The new rules will be posted at Immigration Rules <URL> On the start date ( 24 April ) of the new rules , your BVV will automatically convert to a Visitor ( standard ) visa . You do n't have to do anything for this to happen . People who hold a valid visit visa that was issued prior to 24 April 2015 can use this to enter the UK provided they are still a genuine visitor . They will be able to use this visa to carry out the additional permitted activities . For example , a person with a business visit visa can use this to enter the UK for a holiday or to receive private medical treatment . Source : email from the Home Office to UK lawyers sent on 3 March 2015 The Visitor ( standard ) visa allows you enjoy tourism or business or recreational coursework for as much as you want on multiple visits until it expires . For your other questions , you will always have a landing interview with a British Immigration Officer who will determine if you still qualify . They will look at the same paperwork you originally used with your application so you should bring it along . As long as you are still a genuine visitor , you will have no problems . Adding As always , during a transitional period when old rules change to new rules , it 's advisable to carry a print-out of the relevant rule with you .
There are no Schengen wide regulations on how to react on visa violations and overstays . Each member state is free to set their own penalties and reactions . Overstays are usually settled with a fine , but in severe cases , you can also be banned from entering Schengen for a period of time . I ca n't find any current rates , but in 2011 Switzerland issued fines between 200 and 650 CHF for overstaying . In this case , the Swiss immigration officer most probably did n't notice your overstay . When applying for a national visa , you must assume that the consulate will do a more thorough examination of your travel history , especially to the Schengen area , and that the overstay will be noticed and most likely cause problems . You write in a comment : It 's absolutely clear that my overstaying in 28 days is fixed in data base ... Fortunately , this is actually not the case . There is no Schengen wide database for entries and exits and even if some countries operate their own databases , the data is not complete and not suitable to track your travel history . Since currently the only trace of your overstay are the entry and exit stamps in your passport , this might actually be one of the few cases where " losing " your old passport and applying for a new one will solve your problem .
I ca n't say if it is a common gift to give to your teacher , at least I would not do , but mimikaki is a perfectly fine gift if it is decorative enough . There 's nothing funny or shy about it , this is what it is . Cleaning ears to your loved ones is a way to express your affection in Japan and mimikaki work there like nothing else .
In short , no . Remember , you 're dealing with a bunch of government bureaucrats here , you 'll still need to satisfy <URL> . That said , having evidence of previous travel and ( the important part ! ) having returned home will be helpful in proving that you 're not planning to migrate to the EU permanently . However , I do n't think you 'll be able to apply while still in the UK , since <URL> . The good news is that obtaining a Schengen visa is relatively easy compared to getting a UK visa : lower application fees , shorter application forms , less supporting documentation needed , more locations where one may apply ( VFS global offices in 15 + cities , if you apply from Russia ) , a straightforward application process , shorter processing times .
end question
start question
Are there any problems crossing Kosovo 's international borders or having their stamp in your passport ?
Officially it varies - the UN does n't recognise Kosovo , but several others do . The big problem for you , as you observed - is Serbia , which considers it to be another province , and indeed administers five of the municipalities . The best warning I can find seems to come from Wikitravel : Visa Restrictions : Serbia officially states that it will block passports containing stamps or visas from Kosovo . However , in practice , immigration officers would usually just cancel the Kosovan stamps and replace them with Serbian ones . If you are just visiting the region , visit Serbia first . You will not be given a Serbian exit stamp if you enter Kosovo from Serbia . If you are living in or intend to travel frequently to Serbia , you should get matching pairs of entry and exit stamps ; this would mean backtracking and leaving through Serbia via a regular border crossing point . If you travel a lot in the region , your passport will be crowded with stamps anyway and border guards may not be able to find the matching stamps , and normally let you pass . Just avoid mentioning Kosovo . You can ask Kosovar authorities not to stamp your passport at the border . So unless you obsess with stamps ( which I can empathise with ) , the simplest solution would be to ask them not to stamp the passport , much like many travellers do with Israel .
It would appear there is no official list rather an <URL> to check with the country you are traveling to . I suggest you ask separate questions for the countries you intend on visiting .
According to the InterWebs there are only two Korean restaurants in Romania , both in Bucharest ( <URL> and <URL> ) , however where-ever there is a good number of Korean tourists or workers , there is usually also a Korean restaurant . Looking at the <URL> of Daewoo Mangalia Heavy Industries . all the managers listed there have Romanian names , the president and CEO is Korean , but it seems he is based in Korea . So we can assume there are not many Koreans working at the site , and therefore there is no place to get Korean food . There are a few Chinese places up the coast in Constanta .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
I found a list of laundry service providers in Bangkok . You can look over it . I hope it will help you to find your nearest service provider . <URL>
<URL> offers cash passports : You can choose to pick up your currency in one of our many stores or have it delivered directly to your door . It covers many of the major currencies , including Japanese YEN . <URL> You can buy at their counters in most major international airports , or online in advance .
Yes , for every problem with the police , you can insist to do it at the station . But I would n't choose this as first option automatically . Normally trivial things like showing your ID might extend to several hours ( with a bit of bad luck ) . Getting a car to get you to the next station , waiting there if something is more important , doing the full course of bureaucracy , ( maybe ) getting an additional questioning and a call to your hotel etc.etc . ( depending on the mood ) , paying a fee for the additional effort ( it 's not because they do n't like this behaviour , they have to collect it for certain things ) , and being released in front of the station again instead where they met you first ... If you insist on the station , make sure they know that you have everything necessary but do n't trust them , instead of being here illegally . Easier would be to ask for their ID first . They are obliged ( too ) to show it on request , and to show it long enough that you can read it carefully ( even if you do n't understand German , look at it ) . I did n't find a good image , <URL> has to do . On the backside , there is more information like the name etc. . Scammers usually show you something not withstanding closer inspection , so they do n't want you to look carefully . Additionally , if they are uniformed but without weapon clearly visible on the belt , it 's a fake ( happens often enough to mention it ) . If they refuse to show their ID and/or to take you to a station ( real refusing , not just a " is this really necessary " - thing first ) , call 133 and get some more authentic ones . If they show some authentic looking ID but you still have major doubts for some reason , call too and tell them the number of the ID ( together with location and what they 're doing ) to check it .
See " standard warning " at end re the inadvisability of snorkelling alone . It depends on what you want to see and do , but a brief answer is " almost anywhere that you see sea-water . Auckland is not renowned for its water clarity , but it can still be fun ( speaking from personal experience ) . You 'd want to stay away from the sewage ponds at Mangere , and some of the major creeks/streams that drain storm water from industrial areas . The Auckland East Coast beaches are all relatively safe . Rock areas between beaches are not usually anywhere as violently dangerous as the West Coast beaches but have numerous rock pools and relatively low depth areas with a reasonable amount of sea life . I 've never done it , but the old explosives wharf - now just <URL> - zoom out to see where you are - would be fun foir snorkelling . There MAY be a " no swimming " requirement - but probably not . I 've fished there , but never swum . <URL> is an utter gem . Several hour ferry ride so not zero $ but it 's a completely different world . Beaches and hidden spots with few people ( and a few very strange ones :-) ) . An utterly superb summer venue ( good also in winter but colder ) is " Goat Island Bay " a few hours by bus North of Auckland , but worth the trip . Transport may require some ingenuity - but to get a bus most of the way for $ NZ1 see below " The Naked Bus " . " Goat Island Bay " is the site of a university marine research station and also a marine reserve where all marine wildlife is protected . I snorkelled there some years ago and have never seen so many fish anywhere else in NZ . This may not always be what happens and things may have changed in more recent years , but you can inquire re the latest situation . <URL> <URL> The Naked Bus Company <URL> provides a bus service which covers much of New Zealand ( both main islands ) and which can cost as little as $ 1 full fare IF you book far enough ahead . As the date gets closer prices rise , but are usually still reasonable . A ride to Warkworth ( near GIB ) in March is still $ 1 on some days at some times . On March 8th you can catch an Auckland To Wellington bus for $ 9.99 - IF you book now . <URL> <URL> Standard warning - which will be ignored : There are no places anywhere that are good for snorkeling by yourself if you want to live to a ripe old age . Snorkeling is at the very benign end of hazardous underwater pursuits . While it 's about as safe as any such activity , it 's not wholly safe . But , you know that . I had a friend who frequently engaged in a ' safe ' water sport by himself in Auckland . He died . He was very competent and very experienced and everyone was extremely surprised . But , he 's still dead . Nobody knows exactly how it happened , but there is a good chance that if he had had a " buddy " present that he would have lived . Auckland map : Purple - best likelihood of calm and somewhat clear conditions . Waitemata harbour ( East/right ) is bearable for swimming . Sometimes Orca come in past the harbour bridge ! Rare . West Coast beaches ( red ovals ) are GREAT fun but great care needed . Careless people die . Muriwai - long ocean beach with breakers . Rocks to south of road access . People fish from here and on occasion get swept off and die . A competent snorkeller WITH FINS could have great fun there . I would only do it with wetsuit and fins !!! Piha . Bus from Auckland . Great surf beach . Some interesting rock pools , blow holes . You can swim around Lion Rock . Surf can be large . Getting back in through breakers cvan be demanding ( ask me how I know :-) ) . Karekare - South of Piha ( no circle ) . Bus maybe . Rangitoto Island - Ferry from Ak . Few people . Rugged lava coastline . Water as good as anywhere here . Waiheke Island . Ferry . Some lovely beaches , lots of rocky bays , headlands , ... . <URL>
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
A couple of resources that I find useful : <URL> : A comprehensive listing of visa , health , customs ( in its British English , not American English , definition ) for different destinations compiled by IATA . I have found this is fairly accurate . The form , however , is cumbersome as it asks you to fill in far too many details than required . <URL> : I discovered this website fairly recently . It 's simple in that it allows you to choose what country 's passport you hold , and then show a list of countries that have visa-free or visa-on-arrival entry . This is good for a brief overview use it with caution . As of now , it sometimes misses out information that might affect visas due to residency status either way ; sometimes , it 's harder ( you need to go back to country of nationality ) and sometimes it 's easier ( you can get visa-free/on-arrival holding a passport of one country if you 're considered a resident of another ) .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
Numerous airlines worldwide have inflight WiFi . Within the US , Wifi is available on at certain flights from ( at least ) the following airlines : Air Tran ( All planes ) , Alaska , American Airlines , Delta , JetBlue , SouthWest , United ( p.s. flights only ) , US Airways , Virgin The majority of these airlines use ground-based connections , using technology similar to mobile phone data connections . Most use technology and services from <URL> . A smaller number of airlines use trialing Satellite-based systems , which obviously work better for routes over water ( eg , trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic ) . <URL> is the most common provider in this space . Performance is generally suitable for general web browsing , but not for services such as video streaming . In fact , most services specifically block video streaming services like NetFlix . Internet service is only available above 10,000 feet ( similar to other electronic devices ) .
In short : Come to the airport early , security checks will take longer . You should expect a longer and more serious security check before your departure and after your landing , including questioning about your whereabouts and activities in Iran or Kuwait . If you just visited there , this should be it - your entrance is very highly unlikely to be refused . Predictive Profiling 101 : Why are you being checked ? Unlike some other Middle Eastern countries , Israel does not ban or punish tourists who have visited certain countries in the past . This is a security measure , based on <URL> often used by <URL> . This means that the passenger 's personal details are aggregated , and if they fit into a presumably dangerous profile , the passenger is thoroughly questioned prior to boarding . This method is based on hundreds of variables ( age , nationality , purpose of travel , ... ) , it 's arbitrary and unpredictable by nature , so nobody knows know if Iranian stamp will raise more questions than a Kuwait stamp . Further notes Do n't lie or hide details . Lying will probably get you into longer questioning , and you 're more likely to get banned . Questions might get nosy and personal . The terminals for Israeli ( and US ) flights are often remote and isolated , especially in European airports . Taking a special in-airport bus to an unmarked terminal is not unusual . Do really come early . For further reading about the roots and disputes about Predictive Profiling , you can also read about <URL> and the <URL> , which are taught in security courses in Israel . This is not a political statement , just the viewpoint of the security official . On a last personal note , I envy you a little ! Iran is supposed to be a truly beautiful country , a mixture of Asian and Middle Eastern geography . I hope I can visit it as a tourist , one day soon .
Basically , no . As my Colombian flatmate in London put it , every time a revolution occurs , the first thing that gets hit is the infrastructure , and down goes the rail . Not sure how accurate that is in all countries , but it 's certainly the case in Argentina , Chile , Bolivia , Peru , Ecuador , and Colombia . There are some limited train options in Argentina - from Buenos Aires to nearby cities ( like Rosario ) . However the buses are cheaper , and faster , and it 's not far , so why you 'd take the train I 'm not sure . There 's also a train from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes in Peru for Machu Picchu tourists , but that 's a few hours . Worth it though if you are n't hiking , as the views are spectacular ! There 's also a <URL> tourist train from Salta , Argentina , but it 's a one-day thing and comes back to Salta at night . However , not to worry ! The buses , especially in Argentina and Chile , are absolutely fantastic ! For example , a <URL> . They inevitably have movies , great seats that for a few extra euros you can convert to seats that become beds ( known as full-cama ) , and can get food options from crackers up to roasts ! Bolivia and Peru were n't quite as luxurious , in fact I found the buses in Bolivia painful ( but they were cheap ) , although near Lima in Peru you could find the full range of luxury if you so wanted .
It 's not necessary to have a refusal stamp in your passport . The fact of your visa refusal will be recorded in the <URL> , and the information will be available to the consulates and border officers of all Schengen countries . The same reasons for refusal that are ticked on your refusal notice are also recorded . Thus , all Schengen states will be aware that you have had a previous visa refusal from Germany , and the reasons for the refusal that the consulate gave to you .
Speaking from experience ( 2 double-entry visas for me , and a few multi-entry visas for someone else ) , there 's definitely both an entry and an exit stamp for each entry . Of course , there can always be exceptions - I do n't think passport stamps are ever 100 % reliable - some border agents may not know all the rules , etc. . Some border crossings can be really strange - e.g. land border between Kyrgyzstan and China - it 's really easy to miss a stamp there . Did the Chinese consulate ask you for a scan of your previous Chinese visas or did they also ask for entry/exit stamps ? If it 's the former , chances are they 're just going to look up your information by the visa number in some database ( but I 'm just guessing here ) .
Of course you can ! <URL> in <URL> is the place you want to go to , since a former competitor in Texas ( Texas Tank Adventure ) has apparently closed their doors . Drive A Tank is a family owned and operated business in Kasota , Minnesota , USA . Here you can experience real armored tanks up close and personal , get behind the controls and attempt to navigate our densley wooded course . You can even crush a car or two ! We have a number of U.S. vehicles and several imported British M.B.T.s , S.P.G.s , and A.P.C.s ! Afterwards , sample a few of our fully automatic machine guns in our indoor shooting range . Our state of the art facility is capable of handling up to .50 caliber ammunition . For those who live too far from Minnesota , there are possibilities in <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> as well , to name just a few . Just remember : Tanks are n't built for comfort , so if a seriously bumpy ride leaves you with horrible headaches , then this may not be for you - or you need to bring your painkillers .
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
If the identity and date are close to being illegible , that 's certainly a valid request . Otherwise you could have problems later . But just to make it " nicer " , well I suppose it wo n't hurt to ask , but I would expect a brusque reply in the negative .
<URL> If you select Terminal 2 International and click on each one of the shops listed , you 'll see that a few of them are found before security . These are : Jaya He Museum Store Jaya He Museum Store offers exquisite art , craft and design based collectibles made by renowned and upcoming artists of India . Pick exquisite art and craft forms in contemporary styles inspired by the Jaya He GVK New Museum at T2 . The Museum store also feature an exhibition outlet selling real time works of celebrated artists in the original form as well as product adaptations . Location : Departures , Level 4 Kama Ayurveda Browse through Kama Ayurveda 's treatment based and Internationally acclaimed holistic solutions for the skin , hair and body made with pure , natural and organic ingredients . Location : Terminal 2 , Level 3 , South-west pier , International Departures Xpress Xpress is a one-stop airport shop for a wide assortment of books &amp; magazines , choicest Indian snacks , beverages , gift items , toys and daily essentials . Stopover to pick up a few essentials before you board . Location : Level 4 , International Departures , Before Security Check Level 2 , International to Domestic Transfer Area Level 3 , International Departures , After Security Check , South West Pier I 'm not sure what means , but there might even be a pharmacy available at Terminal 2 : Apollo Pharmacy Forgot first aid for the long trip ? Headache ? Tummy trouble ? Head to the Apollo Pharmacy for all your medical needs . Location : Departures - Opposite Security Check Area - 1 I 'll let you search for available shops in the remaining terminals .
end question
start question
Can I use regular headphones on transatlantic British Airways 747 flights ?
British Airways uses a standard 3.5 mm port in all classes ; you should be fine to bring your own headphones . [ edit ] However , I always include in my travel electronics kit an airline headphone adapter , which allows you to use your headphones ' single 3.5 mm stereo jack with the double 3.5 mm mono ports found on some equipment , including older BA aircraft . In premium cabins , you may notice a smaller second outlet , and that the provided headphones have two-prong jacks . This second port is not an audio output , but a power supply for the noise cancellation system in the provided headphones . You do not need a one-prong to two-prong adapter here , and you should not attempt to plug any third party accessories into this outlet . In fact , I 'm not aware of any major carrier which has proprietary audio jacks in this day and age . You 'll find 3.5 mm outlets in single stereo or split mono varieties pretty much anywhere you can get electronic in-flight audio .
I think it depends on the airline you 're travelling with , and from what airport . Some airlines have launched mobile boarding passes ( exact name may vary between airlines ) . With this , you 're able to call up your boarding pass on your phone , and the barcode on it can be scanned in at the various points where a boarding pass is needed . As the airport infrastructure needs to updated to be able to read mobile boarding passes , it is n't available at all destinations of the airline . Typically , this is done via an application on your phone . The app lets you pull up your boarding card , allows it to be updated if requested , and ensures that the information is presented in the required size and format . In some cases though , I think it 's done with a PDF . For the Kindle case , if your airline supports mobile boarding passes , then I 'd expect you 'll be fine to use it . Just ensure that the 2D barcode , the flight number and your name all show on the screen at the same time , so everything that 's needed by a human and by the barcode scanner are all available at once . If your airline does n't support mobile boarding passes , then you 're likely out of luck . Even if they use 2D barcodes on their printed boarding passes , the barcode reader could well have issues with reading from the e-ink screen , so you 're unlikely to be able to use it . The only good news is that more and more airlines are rolling out mobile boarding passes ( as they 're more convenient for users , and more convenient for pushing out changes than re-printing boarding cards ) , and more airports are supporting them .
I do n't know when you are plannig to go to Iceland . Winter in Iceland is 6 month wide from November to May and is not the same you go in January ( really cold to camp outside and almost no light ) than you go in April ( 14 hours of light and very cold , but possible to camp with proper camp material ) . But these are safety reasons to do the trek or not and you ask about regulations . A group of five people stayed last year in April in Iceland ( still winter ) . Basically we did treks and visited public places arround the island on our own . Before to go we asked about this to the icelanic official tourism <URL> people without response . When we were on site , we asked the same in the airport Tourist Information Center and they stated that there is no regulations about wild camping , trekking or other nature activities other than clean everything and do n't enter private properties . Of course , anything you do is at your own risk and if you do n't have an insurance you may end paying a lot of money for your adventure . Anyway , if you dare to do it on your own , you will find nobody on your way except in some touristic places . We were almost alone trekking in Glymur , Krafla , Dimmuborgir , Svartifoss , Skaftafell ... The picture is when we walked on the glacier , we happen to meet the official guides and nobody of them try us to abandon our walk ( sorry for the logo , I do n't have the original image here ) .
The answer is " Yes " but only if you are arriving from an intercontinental flight . EuroBonus Gold &amp; Diamond members can also access SAS lounges if arriving from a SAS-operated intercontinental flight ( except at Newark due to airport authority regulations ) . <URL> I would presume from the phrasing that access would not be granted on arriving from a shorthaul flight . Since CPH is SAS 's hub , it is likely that the " Lounge Dragons " ( or " Lounge Angels " if we are to be kind ) know the regulations better than most . I suppose it could not hurt to ask if you can enter .
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
It should be okay for you to apply for ESTA , because the visa you hold is not a B-1 or B-2 visa . If you were to travel to the United States for purposes of tourism , or business purposes unrelated to the visa you now hold , you would in fact be required to apply for ESTA or for a B visa . ( I 'm not sure , however , what will happen if you can check in using your ESTA , and subsequently enter using the visa . ) For example , at <URL> , you can see that for an E-2 visa " you must be coming to the United States to develop and direct the enterprise . " See also at <URL> : Q : What if a traveler has a current , valid visa ? A : Individuals who possess a valid visa will still be able to travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose for which it was issued . Individuals traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA authorization . This implies that you can apply for ESTA to travel to the United States for a purpose other than one for which your valid visa was issued . You also express concern about whether you might have trouble when entering the United States , since you will have been indicated on the carrier 's passenger list as a VWP traveler , but you will be presenting a visa at entry . I doubt that you will have trouble because of it . I can think of two reasons you might : Applying for ESTA with no intention of using the VWP Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations , section 217.5 ( a ) says Each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel by air or sea to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) must , within the time specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , receive a travel authorization ... You might therefore run into trouble because you do n't actually intend to travel to the US under the VWP . But it does n't actually say that those who do n't intend to travel can not receive the authorization . Furthermore , CBP notes that people can apply for ESTA <URL> . Checking in with ESTA and entering with a visa Here , I can only speculate , but I guess that the carrier is more likely to get in trouble for this than you are . You could approach the ground staff at the airport to correct your record with information about your visa , but this would defeat your apparent purpose of getting on the plane quickly and easily .
TL ; DR : No , they do not serve sushi on planes . ( See footnote . ) To set the stage , I 've lived in Japan for several years , have traveled the length and breadth of the archipelago , and have flown <URL> on a wide selection of airlines ( JL , NH , SQ , OZ , MH , AY , QF , TK , SK , NW , TG ) , in both economy and business class -- and I 've never seen actual raw-fish-and-rice sushi on a plane , unless I brought it myself . First , on domestic flights in Japan , there is no food served at all in economy or business class , much less sushi . On JAL , a select few routes do offer simple meals in first class , but <URL> . You 're welcome to bring your own food on the plane though , including sushi , and even liquids are allowed on dom flights , although they may be scanned . Second , on international flights to Japan , the food will be prepared not in Japan , but at the catering service ( s ) at the other end , which prepare food for all flights at all airlines , not just Japan . Are they going to offer sushi ? No . Third , on international economy flights from Japan , you 've got Japanese catering firms that could offer sushi ... but do n't . Economy meals have to be cheap , reheatable and palatable to all , but as @jwenting states , sushi is expensive and perishable , and there are a lot of people -- yes , even people visiting Japan -- who dislike raw fish . That leaves only one option : business and first class flights from Japan , where ingredient cost is not such an issue and there are usually multiple choices of appetizer . But sushi is still not a great option , because raw fish has to be kept cool , but the rice turns into a hard , gluey mess if goes cold , an impossible equation in the confines of an airplane . In business class , I have occasionally seen cooked types of sushi ( grilled unagi eel , slices of futomaki rolls , etc ) , but I ca n't recall ever seeing raw fish on a plane . But rejoice ! If you 've got more cash to throw around than I do , you can still enjoy raw fish on a plane ... in First Class , since you simply ca n't do a proper Japanese kaiseki meal without sashimi . Here 's the sashimi course from Asiana on a NRT-ICN flight : ( courtesy <URL> ) And here 's a <URL> showcasing ANA 's kyo-kaiseki course , also incorporating raw fish ( well , slightly seared aburi , but close enough ) . JAL and Singapore Airlines offer kaiseki as well . But note that none of these offer sushi ( raw fish on rice ) , opting instead for sashimi ( just plain raw fish ) . This is both more accurate , since you would n't serve sushi as part of kaiseki , and does n't run into the aforementioned problem of trying to keep the fish cold and the rice warm simultaneously . Footnote : I 'm defining " sushi " as " raw fish on rice " here , which is narrower than the <URL> , but think of it this way : if someone offers you a sushi meal , and it has no raw fish , you 'd most likely feel a bit cheated , no ?
British Airways uses a standard 3.5 mm port in all classes ; you should be fine to bring your own headphones . [ edit ] However , I always include in my travel electronics kit an airline headphone adapter , which allows you to use your headphones ' single 3.5 mm stereo jack with the double 3.5 mm mono ports found on some equipment , including older BA aircraft . In premium cabins , you may notice a smaller second outlet , and that the provided headphones have two-prong jacks . This second port is not an audio output , but a power supply for the noise cancellation system in the provided headphones . You do not need a one-prong to two-prong adapter here , and you should not attempt to plug any third party accessories into this outlet . In fact , I 'm not aware of any major carrier which has proprietary audio jacks in this day and age . You 'll find 3.5 mm outlets in single stereo or split mono varieties pretty much anywhere you can get electronic in-flight audio .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
As a developer of some search engine for the Amadeus ( one of the major companies who provides the air-tickets search ) , I can say : Yes , you can , but you should find the site working with Amadeus and provides such option to the search . This option is not as popular as flexible-dates-feature , but you still can try to search such sites . I 'll do my best to find them : <URL> - use the " Add nearby airports " checkbox and " Customs " menu . <URL> - the same menu , because the search engine is provided by Amadeus
No , you ca n't use a driving license , because what is required is not just a proof of identity but a proof of nationality . You could have a driving license if you were a British resident , and it would n't give the right to enter Switzerland without a visa . Generally speaking , you need a national identity card or a passport . You can consult the <URL> . Assuming that you 're a British citizen , you need a passport ( or a seaman 's book ) . A British passport without British citizenship also lets you in without a visa , for stays up to 90 days . Beware that British Identity Cards containing under the heading " nationality " the entry " British Citizen " ( B.C. ) are not valid for entry into Switzerland anymore .
US immigration does usually let family members join US citizens in the citizen line . This does not extend to friends . As always , there 's a possibility you 'll get away with it , but if not , the non-US citizen will be sent to the back of the other line . Source : I 'm a UK citizen with US citizen family . Depending on the terminal you enter , whether your friend has an ESTA and has visited the US before , they may be eligible to use the kiosks that allow quicker immigration now .
tl ; dr It boils down to this : Are you travelling with family/kids ? Do you have a flexible budget ( able to consider more than the cheapest options ) ? Are you easily annoyed or frustrated while travelling ? Do you have onward travel once you have arrived in India ( by road , train , connecting flights , etc. ) ? If the answer to any of the above is YES , I would n't choose a late night flight . ... these flights are prone to unruly passengers , dirty aircraft , and so on . He even mentioned that these flights are called punishment flights by the crew , because no one wants to be on this flight . There is some truth to this . Keep in mind that there are a fair number of Indian labourers in Dubai . This group of people is always looking for the cheapest flights between Dubai and their destination in India . Consider the following factors : Your budget It all depends on what it is that you can afford . If you can afford to fly business class , you will receive good service on almost all airlines . Bear in mind that airlines like Air India will probably have more rowdy passengers in general and you probably do n't want to spend business class fare on such an airline . However , Emirates or Jet Airways will give you good service regardless of the flight times . Your destination It is relatively easy to find a variety of airline options if you are going to a major city like Mumbai , Bangalore or Delhi . However , if you are going to a second tier city like Goa or Pune , your options are limited to Air India and possibly a couple other airlines . Alternate starting points Sharjah airport is the closest international airport to Dubai and the airline that flies out of here is Air Arabia ( budget airline , popular choice among the labour class ) . However , you also have Abu Dhabi which has options like Etihad Airways . This one , like Qatar Airways offers good service - it is something to consider if you have a couple hours to spare and want to visit Abu Dhabi . So my question is : How bad is the situation really and is it worth to avoid these flights and fly other routes , even if these other flights might be a little bit longer or more expensive ? If you are a single traveller , it is easier for you to adapt to noisier and rowdier flights . If you are with family and kids , you probably want to have a more relaxed journey . All in all , I would say that you are better off choosing an airline like Jet Airways or Emirates at a non late night time . If you do n't , it is still just a 3 hour flight . However , if you are not familiar with India and are going there as a tourist , you want to save some energy for what might hit you when you get to India :) If you are not a tourist and are familiar with India , then you are probably used to rowdy people and should have no extra problems . Edit : a matter of perspective After reading the other answer , I feel it important to mention that what some people may think of as unruly and hectic , others may not . It is a matter of perspective . Since the OP mentions that they are originating in Europe , I think it is safe to assume that from a non-Indian tourist 's perspective , passengers on some of these flights tend to come across as relatively abrasive . I can say this out of personal experience - I am a non resident Indian who has lived in Dubai and now in Canada and travels to India once in a while . I find myself losing patience when travelling in India especially after having lived in Canada .
TL ; DR : You need to present your M&amp;M account number at the check-in or apply for retroactive credit for a flight online at miles-and-more . com under the menu point " Mileage request " . There is no real harm in registering at all the frequent flier programs where you are able to earn miles on . The airline has your data anyhow already once you take a flight , so there is no privacy issue ( as long as you do not use the card/number otherwise ) , and you do not pay any fees . Many programs also apply to car rentals , hotel bookings etc , so you can earn miles in several places . To get the miles on your card , normally all you need to do is to present your card/number at check-in and you will get the points . Once you have a certain minimum amount of points , you will get the physical card . If you do not have a card yet , or forgot it , you can simply give them the number or apply retroactively on-line . You can also take a photo of your card and store it on your smartphone so there is no issue in case you do not carry them with you .
There are no official limits ; that is the GDS systems do not impose a limit . Each airline is free to release their fares and control booking based on their individual requirements . You can usually find this information in the agent reference/manual/guidelines published by airlines . These also include the fare rules , restrictions , refund policies , penalties and a lot of TLA ( three-letter acronyms ) that are only relevant to those in the industry . You simply have to search for the airline you are interested in , here are some examples that I found : Frontier has it available on their <URL> , written in plain English ( my emphasis ) : Frontier participates in the following Global Distribution Systems : Amadeus , Sabre and Travelport ( including Apollo , Galileo and Worldspan ) . Please be familiar with the specific formats and requirements of each system for booking and ticketless/Guaranteed Ticketing travel . Frontier utilizes teletype ( TTY ) connectivity for availability and will open and close inventory with AVS messaging . F9 flight schedules will be available for booking up to 180 days in advance of departure date in the GDS systems . American Airlines , states <URL> : You can book a flight on aa.com up to 331 days in advance . British Airways publishes fares <URL> : You can access information up to one year in advance . Finally , a route is different than a flight . A route is a combination of arrival and destination ( with optional stops ) , but a flight is a timed departure for that destination . There are some routes that are seasonal , some routes that are permanent - and the availability of flights also fluctuates . There are usually multiple flights on a route . An airline may have multiple flights on the same route ; and multiple airlines may offer different flights , or even flights departing at the same time ( often within 30 minute gaps ) . This is often the case on popular/busy city combinations .
The core differences between a phone app and a dedicated handheld gps are : battery life - the gps will have much longer battery life , but you have a charger for your phone so as long as you get enough sun you 'll be fine . What 's the weather like where you are heading ? ruggedness - gps devices are considerably stronger than an iPhone . Generally they are waterproof as well . Again , this may not be an issue , unless you fall in a river ... sensitivity - dedicated gps hardware is often much better at ascertaining your position . This may or may not be useful for you - in steep sided mountain ravines it can make all the difference . So if you do n't need any of those features , go with your phone . Personally I 'd always take the gps unit and my phone . And while I may log my track on the phone as well , my core nav service would be the gps , and my comms service would be the phone .
I think I found it but if there are others , please post them . <URL>
Short answer : Yes , it appears you can , I would n't . Longer answer . I certainly ca n't find anything that would prevent you from doing so , there 's similar threads over on <URL> and <URL> where people come to the same conclusion . Additionally there 's at least one case of it <URL> . However , as noted it those threads and the comments , you 're going to attract a lot of attention during security where you will have to remove it . Just having a vest may not be that unusual but actually wearing one through security is almost certainly going to get you pulled over for additional screening and questions . If you opt to put it on after security or on the plane itself I can see a few problems . One , although I 've never worn one , I ca n't imagine they 're the most comfortable things to wear and that does n't sound like a recipe for a pleasant flight . Secondly , if it 's obvious it may concern other passengers and the airline would be within their rights to ask you not to wear it . Finally , I 'm assuming these are reasonably bulky and it may actually cause you problems in an emergency situation , another reason the flight crew may ask you to remove it . I know we have a lot of airline staff that post here so maybe one of them can come along and say how they 'd react . You say : It makes sense to wear it in case someone try to hijack the plane . No , it really does n't . The chance of a hijack attempt is astonishingly unlikely ( and even less likely for hijackers to have firearms ) . Even if it did happen is a vest going to help much ? Either the hijackers plan to land and ransom the plane , in which case it generally makes sense to not shoot the passengers . Or they plan to crash the plane in which case a vest is not going to help much . Or the shooting ruptures something causing the plane to depressurize and crash anyway . And , in the extremely mindbogglingly unlikely case that someone starts shooting on a plane you 'll most likely to be sitting down and your head will be more likely to be in the firing line ... unless you 're planning to engage with the hijackers which is a <URL> and is probably just going to get you beaten up or worse . Assuming this is a normal commercial flight then it will be as safe as any other until it lands and the passengers are off-loaded , otherwise it would n't be flying . If you 're really worried about your destination I would choose to put on the vest after landing before leaving the airport but I can think of few places that this would be necessary that would also have normal flights still running to them . Note , my advice might be different if your fear is based on a direct threat to you personally ( i.e. because of who you are or what you do ) rather than just a generically dangerous destination . But in that case you should probably be engaged with private security and asking them these questions .
It turned out that Flying Blue is not as restrictive as mentioned on their homepage . Even though they require you to hand in the original boarding pass , it is possible to get the miles with just the e-ticket number and any kind of proof that you paid for the flights . In my case , this was an invoice . So the answer to the question is : Send FlyingBlue an email and tell them your problem .
end question
start question
From where in Ethiopia can I see the Red Sea ?
Assumptions Let 's make some assumptions : The question " how far can I see ? " can be answered by asking " how far is it to the apparent horizon ? " <URL> By this definition , a taller vantage point allows to see farther than a lower one The <URL> The maximum height above sea level in Ethiopia is <URL> The Red Sea is a large puddle of water which is likely to be visible if located between the observer and the apparent horizon Some Data The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 2000m is 159.7 km The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 4550m is 241km The average distance between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and the Red Sea is 60km ( calculated using my thumb as scale and google maps ) From where Can I See the Red Sea in Ethiopia ? Given the assumptions and the data above , one should be able to see the Red Sea from Ethiopia , given an observation point at a height of 2000m placed between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and 90km from such border . The map below ( <URL> ) shows four circles with a a radius of 159.7 km , placed roughly at the border between Eritrea and the Red Sea . These highlight an area of land in Ethiopia from which the Red Sea should be visible . Moreover , an observer standing at the summit of the Ethiopian highlands should be able to see the Red Sea , since this is at a distance which is less than the distance of the apparent horizon calculated from that point . The yellow circle in the map below shows an area with a radius of 241km centred on the Ethiopian Highlands . This circle highlights the visible area from this point , a significant part of which encompasses the Red Sea . <URL>
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
The monsoon rains generally do not start until the end of May in that part of the world . What this means for you is that , the ocean on the western side of Sri Lanka is generally calm until June . So , I would say any beaches in and around Colombo or below would be great to check out . As a bonus , you might be able to do some " blue whale " watching , if you go to the southern side of Sri Lanka ( <URL> ) .
Usually , depending on the country , an embassy or consulate is where you 'd go to , in order to obtain a visa . In your case , the nearest ( that I can find ) is the <URL> . 1233 West Loop South , Park Tower North , Suite 1150 Houston , TX 77027 (713) 961-3063 / 64/65 Fax : (713) 961-3070 E-mail : consbras@brazilhouston.org So they 'd be your most likely best bet for first point of call . For a rough idea of the documentation you 'll need to apply for your visa , have a look at the <URL> - they have a solid wall of information which will be of great use . If you 're really worried about the process , your travel agent would be able to help out with the whole thing . If you do n't have a travel agent , do n't worry , really , many of us apply for visas all the time , and while the wall of documents required sounds scary , as long as you follow the steps it 's actually pretty straightforward . Note that according to the Miami website , it can take 10-45 days to process depending on the method taken , so given you are travelling in March , I 'd get the ball moving on the whole process pretty soon .
From the US Consulate : Tourists to Mexico wishing to travel beyond the border zone with their car must obtain a temporary import permit or risk having their car confiscated by Mexican customs officials . To acquire a permit , one must submit evidence of citizenship , title for the car , a car registration certificate and a driver 's license to a Banjercito branch located at a Mexican Customs office at the port of entry , and pay a processing fee . Mexican law also requires the posting of a bond at a Banjercito office to guarantee the departure of the car from Mexico within a time period determined at the time of the application . For this purpose , American Express , Visa or MasterCard credit card holders will be asked to provide credit card information ; others will need to make a cash deposit of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the age of the car . Please do not forget to ask for your receipt from Banjército . In order to recover this bond or avoid credit card charges , travelers must return to any Mexican Customs office immediately prior to departing Mexico . Disregard any advice , official or unofficial , that vehicle permits can be obtained at checkpoints in the interior of Mexico . Avoid individuals outside vehicle permit offices offering to obtain the permits without waiting in line . If the proper permit can not be obtained at the Banjercito branch at the port of entry , do not proceed to the interior where travelers may be incarcerated , fined and/or have their vehicle seized at immigration/customs checkpoints . So it sounds really like as long as you have the ownership papers and registration , it does n't matter how many cars in your convoy :D
I see you 've already found Perama , which is the largest cruise/ferry operator around Lombok , and they 're quoting Rp 1.3 million for a deck fare , which sounds about right ( ~ US$ 110 ) . There are other operators , but I doubt you 're going to find anything substantially cheaper , and if you do it 'll be cheap for a reason ( <URL> ) . Even Perama is <URL> , but hey , Indonesia ' gitulah , it 's either that or fly and Merpati is n't much better . What you can do , though , is negotiate your own package where you just combine the dates/bits you 're interested in -- since there are 4 to 6 of you , you 'll have a fair amount of bargaining power . I would n't even bother trying to sort this out beforehand , just show up at the Perama shop in Labuanbajo and see what they can do .
There are actually several , as found in a quick google search . But one that matches your area certainly seems to be <URL> . It is just under an hour from Chester , 10 minutes from the seaside town of Rhyl , and half an hour away from the Victorian Pier at Llandudno . A similarly close one is <URL> , although it 's a bit closer to the Chester side of North Wales . I believe the area names you 're looking for might be Denbighshire , which both these castles are located in .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
According to <URL> you can find cheetahs around Africa and Middle East . Image is in public domain One of the easiest places to see Cheetahs ( I saw a lot there ) is Masai Mara National Park ( Kenya ) .
According to the stations information about <URL> ( Dutch language only ) , you can rent bicycles right at the station for 7,50 per day . They demand a deposit of 50 euro 's and it is advised to make reservations by phone at : +31 ( 0 ) 26-4421782
According to <URL> , you can buy the Discovery Pass at any of the attractions that it includes - ie Cave of the Winds , Maid of the Mist , the Gorge Discovery Center , Aquarium , Adventure Theatre , or Whirlpool Tours . You can combine all these attractions with a Niagara USA Discovery pass for $ 35 , which you can purchase at the attractions .
Checking " Frommer 's Alaska 2004 by Charles Wohlforth " , Wiley Publishing Inc , ISBN 0-7645-3891-8 , we find the following paragraph ... The Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks maintains a fascinating and cool site filled with real-time earth science information about Alaska , such as aurora predictions , volcano watches , earthquake and tsunami updates , rocketry , and space science . ( emphasis mine ) Going to the site , at <URL> , you can find the answers to almost everything related to seeing the aurora , including a graphic showing the forecast for today ... <URL> Auroral activity will be moderate . Weather permitting , moderate displays will be visible overhead from Barrow to as far south as Talkeetna and visible low on the horizon as far south as Bethel , Soldotna and southeast Alaska . Source : <URL> , fair use Looking further into Frommer 's , there 's a first person narrative entitled " Seeing the Aurora Borealis " which gives an informative account of the author 's experience . My copy of Frommer 's is the 2004 version , you can locate the 2015 version <URL> . Checking Amazon , I see used paperback copies starting at GBP 1 . Summary : The site uses a computer model that appears to take all of your parameters into consideration . And so it seems that the book coupled with the university site will have all of the information you need to successfully view the aurora in Alaska ( or any place else where it 's visible ) .
Checkpoint Charlie is probably worth seeing anyway but it 's very touristy and not quite a piece of the Berlin Wall : The checkpoint has been rebuilt and stands alone in the middle of the street . Incidentally , it became a symbol for several reasons but it was mostly notable as the only checkpoint for members of the allied forces . Other border crossings existed for Germans , including <URL> which was the first to open in the night of November 9 , 1989 ( East Germans -- who were actually hopping to cross the border and not merely going for symbolic value -- rushed to that one before the Brandenburger Tor or Checkpoint Charlie ) . <URL> is also still visible on the motorway ( not sure if it can be visited ) . There are actual pieces of the wall left in several places , including several watchtowers . <URL> is a famous one . It was a part of the " back wall " on the East German side , which means that it was n't accessible to the public ( the Spree river marked the border there ) . The paintings were made after the fall of the wall in 1990 . In walking distance from Checkpoint Charlie , the <URL> museum also includes an actual section of the wall . The <URL> is perhaps particularly interesting as it is intended as a reminder of what the wall was like , not merely a short piece of painted concrete but actually two walls separated by a no man 's land . There is a documentation center there as well . This would be the " official " institutional monument/museum devoted to the wall ( the museum at Checkpoint Charlie is a private exhibition and has occasionally been the center of controversies ) . Finally , in most of the city , the former border ( i.e. the " front wall " , except around Potsdamer Platz , where the stones actually follow the " back wall " ) is marked by a discrete row of stones on the street and there is a <URL> following it .
Right after security checks ( at least in the terminal I used ) there were two changing rooms that are probably used for extra security checks . I asked the security staff if I could use it to get changed and their response was " sure , of course " so I went ahead and did . Indeed nobody even seemed to care . The changing room featured a chair , enough space and was very clean . <URL> Alternatively let me propose a solution here that has not been mentioned yet : Go to a clothing store in the airport shopping area , find a sales clerk that is free and ask politely if you could use their changing rooms for a second to change your clothes . No guarantee that it 'll work but you can try at least .
There are a couple ( literally : I saw 2 ) publicly accessible sockets in the primary B terminal , which is nice and modern but very crowded ; both of the sockets I saw were in use , which is n't surprising because there were probably a couple hundred people in the terminal . However , but there are many more sockets in the A terminal , which is older , dirty , and only has four gates , but was almost completely empty ( I had my choice of 10 or so sockets close to seating ) .
The highest jump is at the Macau tower , at 233m , but it 's technically a controlled descent , not a true bungee . That 's the Skyjump . They do however , have a bungee with a guide rope there too . However , it 's not over sea or water , as you requested . So then you have to look at the jump from the top of the Verzasca Dam near Locarno , Switzerland . It appears in the opening scene of the James Bond film GoldenEye , and is 220m high ! The Bloukrans Bridge Bungy has been operated by Face Adrenalin commercially since 1997 and uses a pendulum bungee system . It is 216m high , from the platform to the river below . So if you 're wanting one over water , that would qualify as the true highest , and indeed is the highest bridge jump in the world . However , if you 're wanting one over the sea as in ocean ( so not river ) , then you 're going to be looking at the 150m jump in Helsinki , Finland . Source : <URL> and <URL> .
Not my region ( lavender is mostly found in Provence , but there are occasional fields in other regions ) , so I need to rely on <URL> . Lavender flowers from late June to late August . It is typically harvested well before the flower wilts , because the heat makes the essence rise towards the flower 's glands , so the plant 's aroma becomes less strong as the summer goes by . The exact harvest time varies from region to region ( and of course with the year 's weather ) ; looking around on the Internet , I see dates ranging from mid-July to mid-August ; for example there are <URL> from the third Sunday in July to the 15th of August ; the harvest tends to be earlier in the Drôme region .
I 'd go to <URL> , conveniently located between Ueno and Asakusa next to Tawaramachi stn on the Ginza line . It 's Tokyo 's main restaurant wholesale district and sells everything you need for food preparation or presentation at low prices , <URL> has a bit more info . Note that the Japanese term for lacquerware is shikki ( 漆器 ) , urushi-nuri is the coating itself . Note that lacquerware is , paradoxically , one of those things where the more you pay , the less you get , since the real thing is fragile , stains easily and is difficult to clean without causing damage . My wife only trots out her set for New Year 's , and she puts a layer of plastic wrap between food and plate when she does ! Plastic imitations are much cheaper ( hundreds of yen vs thousands ) , much more practical and not easily distinguished by the naked eye , although for seriously decorative pieces ( eg . the pieces towards the bottom of <URL> ) , the real thing will be your only option .
There are several sites that offer this information including those for Ski Resorts . <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How to find out your body weight while travelling ?
Ask at your hotel or hostel . I work in a hostel and we have about four sets of scales so guests can make sure their luggage wo n't be over the weight limit for their flight . I 'm sure we 're not unique in this regard .
Hitchhiking in Greece is rare nowadays , but not so uncommon in islands and mountains ( between small villages ) . As another commenter said , there 's a popular belief amongst Greeks that it is illegal , but as far as I know this is n't true ( but might had been true for a period in the past , hence the myth ) . Turkish truck drivers are mostly found in Northern Greece , as RoflcoptrException said , usually traveling in <URL> ( official website , map available ) , the highway that connects the customs of Kipoi ( Κήποι ) / Ipsala to Igoumenitsa ( Ηγουμενίτσα ) . It is easy to identify them from their different <URL> . Between Igoumenitsa and Alexandroupoli there are very few truckstops and gas stations , around 8-10 as far as I remember , and I would say half of them between Thessaloniki and Alexandroupoli . Most of them have been available during the years 2011-2013 ( Egnatia is a fairly new highway and most of the truckstops are not yet depicted in Google Earth 's imagery ) and some of them are not yet open to the public . I 've been to most of them , and I 'm pretty confident that none is owned or at least predominated by Turkish drivers . But that does n't mean that you might not find some Turkish trucks in any of those truckstops . It is probable that you will . I 'm not sure if this is useful , but a place where you will ALWAYS find Turkish trucks resting , is the area between Kipoi and Ipsala customs ( between the borders ) . Please note that you can not pass the borders as a hitchhiker , you will have to pass by walking , and then enter to the truck .
Even if many countries switched to ( which is apparently recommended by the <URL> ) in the last decades , the <URL> . Traditionally , business numbers were written as and it was up to the caller to substitute the right call prefix . Fortunately , modern mobile phones now take care of this for you . So you should be able to use the full number with directly in your contact list and let the phone handle those numbers correctly wherever you are . I always record all numbers that way , with country code and area prefix included - including local numbers and other numbers in my current country of residence - and never had any trouble - whether difficulties reaching a specific number or unexpected charges . I even moved to another country with my whole contact list without needing to update anything to use my new number/SIM card . Note that I did not personally test this solution in either Canada or Ecuador .
As they are separate countries , you will indeed need two visas - one for Canada , and one for the US . You will need to apply for each one separately . As Algeria is NOT one of the countries eligible for the US <URL> , you 'll need to apply for a visa in advance - <URL> . To get a visa , you 'll need to fill out an application from the Canadian embassy in Algeria for Canada , and the US Embassy for the United States visa . These quite often take time to process , so try and do it as soon as you know when you 're travelling - do n't leave them to the last minute !
Ask at your hotel or hostel . I work in a hostel and we have about four sets of scales so guests can make sure their luggage wo n't be over the weight limit for their flight . I 'm sure we 're not unique in this regard .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
AT&amp;T ca n't charge you to use WiFi . From the page you linked to , that 's talking about a service where you connect to WiFi somewhere ( like an airport ) that you might normally have to pay for , and the provider of that WiFi has partnered with AT&amp;T to allow AT&amp;T customers to log in and use the WiFi . This does not affect your ability to connect to any other public ( or private ) WiFi system , like a public library in London , your hotel in Hong Kong , or your friend 's house in Sydney . Phone company representatives are trained to encourage you to forget about actual public WiFi , and buy their expensive package to connect to their partners . There 's also the possibility that the customer representative you talked to is simply not technically knowledgeable and only knows about what they 've been told to say .
The <URL> allows you to search by aircraft type , though this feature is undocumented and not found in the <URL> . In the <URL> field , you would input followed by the aircraft types , indicated with a and using the <URL> . For example , suppose I wanted to fly from Miami to Los Angeles and was very insistent that the flights be on widebody aircraft . I could enter and would indeed get back an all-widebody itinerary -- though on the return , I 'd need to fly via Honolulu to do it : Without the type specification , the top result offers me a 737 connecting to a CRJ-900 and a return on a 757 . You can use for negation , too , to avoid regional jets or whichever manufacturer has aroused your ire recently . As far as I know , this is the only publicly accessible flight search engine that allows you to search by aircraft type . Unfortunately , however , it seems you can only search for aircraft on a segment-by-segment basis . I could not coax it to search so that it returns a routing where any one segment is on a particular aircraft ( if anyone has figured out the language , please suggest an edit ) . So for your A380 quest , you 'll need to do some legwork to identify major routes , which you can then plug back in to the ITA Multi-City search . You do n't indicate where in Indonesia you are headed , but Singapore is closer to Jakarta than Hong Kong , and the link JoErNanO indicated in another answer indicates A380 flights from Frankfurt and Paris to Singapore . So , I run a search requiring an A380 on the FRA-SIN or CDG-SIN segments , then let the engine fill in the other segments as may be available : and this returns a list of itineraries such as this : You could then repeat the exercise looking for flights via CDG-SIN , or via HKG , or perhaps aim for multiple A380 segments via DXB , but you would need to do your comparisons in a spreadsheet or some offline listing . -- There is of course a much simpler way to search for flights with designated connection points : The trouble here is that there are numerous CDG-SIN flights on other equipment , and the time it saves you in setting up the search is more than made up in the time it takes you to sift through the larger set of non-relevant results . -- Lastly , remember that ITA is just a search engine ; you 'll need to <URL> your desired flights .
There are currently three main <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Wikipedia provides a pretty good <URL> to save you having to check each alliance 's website in turn . Have a look through that and see which one you 've mostly been hitting . Also , be aware that carriers sometimes enter , leave or change alliances . This tends not to happen too often , but it does occur ( just see the former and future members section on the wikipedia page for an idea ) , so you ca n't be certain that an airline ( especially a smaller one ) will always be in the alliance it 's in today . Finally , be aware that you often have a fairly short period of time to register flights with a frequent traveller program after flying , usually a few months . Unless you 've flown very recently , you may find that not all of your flights can be credited when you join a program .
You need the Youth Hostel Association : <URL> Central London beds from # 15/person/night - not quite as cheap as you asked for but probably one of the cheapest you 're likely to get , short of a tent or a homeless shelter . Actually , looking on Airbnb there are a couple of places offering beds for as low as # 7 , and a couple of them are in what I 'd consider central London . Use the price filter to find them , and I suspect you 'll need to book way ahead of time . <URL> Update : I 'm looking at Airbnb again later the same day and the central London places I saw offering beds for for # 7 are no longer showing as listed - perhaps because they 're all booked up ? I do n't know . There 's still a few places showing at that price in outer London - but I guess the moral is that it 's worth checking airbnb more than once because places go in and out of availability , even if you 're not searching for specific dates .
If the flight number changes , such as in your example of 9W 119 and 9W 76 , they 're different flights ( in fact , nearly always different planes ) and you 'll have to disembark . Technically this is not a stopover at all , it 's a transfer or " layover " . If the flight number stays the same , you 've got a genuine stopover , and there 's no easy way to know what will happen . If the stop 's an hour or more , usually you will have to disembark while they clean the plane . Being allowed to choose to stay on board in these paranoid days seems to be getting more and more unusual , although it does still happen on some regional hopper routes where stops are short ( under an hour ) and only a few pax may get on or off at any given airport . Not being allowed off the plane at all is even more unusual , and is mostly limited to stopovers at military airports ( eg . Kwajalein on the Continental " Island Hopper " between Guam and Hawaii ) , domestic legs without <URL> rights feeding international flights , or those rare routes where they do a pure refueling ( technical ) stop . The last of these are increasingly rare in scheduled aviation , but do still happen on crappy charters flying ( eg . ) Scandinavia-Thailand on old overloaded planes that ca n't fly the full distance in one hop , or even on scheduled flights if there are last-minute equipment substitutions , really bad head winds etc. .
The intuition you need is something like this -- an understanding of the economic prosperity of typical travellers in the cities involved in your routing , an understanding of the " politics " of the carriers involved ( beyond simple economics ) , and a basic grasp of the mechanics of airline pricing . They are not totally separate but let us look at some examples . Economic prosperity . Stopping in London is expensive . Typical example , you wish to fly from New York to Copenhagen . Let 's say you need no flexibility , you are doing a return trip , you can stay a Saturday night , you can give one month 's notice , and you are willing to tolerate economy class : you want the deep discount fare . Right now BA/AA/and their partners will sell you a return trip for 692 USD in early September . This is actually a flight via London . You want to visit London ( hypothetically ) . How much can it be to stop there ? [ By a " stop " I mean a stop of over 24 hours . Unless otherwise specified if the time between flights is less than 24 hours on an international ticket , the flights are considered connecting and stopover restrictions do not apply . ] Investigating the fare rules reveals it is a throughfare on NYC-CPH ; that is to say , the outbound part of the pricing unit is not composed of two separate fares . Can this fare cover us if we make a stopover ( > 24 hours ) in London ? No . Category 8 ( Stopovers ) says -- No , so we will have to reprice everything . Repricing with a single 26 hour stop in London and the cheapest price ( covering almost exactly the same flights ) is now 1445 USD . Why ? Travellers between London and New York have a high willingness to pay . You know the sheer quantity of business transacted between those two cities means there are many weekly commuters on those flights . Travellers on New York to Copenhagen are a completely different market . The prices reflect the market , not the route . And the fares are carefully calibrated by people using large computational models to try to separate the two markets so they can be separately priced . If you want a free stop in London on a BA fare that happens to pass through LON , forget it . This is British Airway 's base and the city is stuffed full of people willing to pay a lot of money to travel on their planes . BA will protect the margin carefully . This also applies to their sister company Iberia and their oneworld joint venture partners American Airlines and Finnair . Stopping in Reykjavik is cheap . As an alternative suppose you decided to fly Air Icelandic from Anchorage to London via Reykjavik . Reykjavik is not a major centre of commerce and there is little marginal revenue for Air Icelandic to protect from spoilage . Therefore stopovers are free on the fares sold by Air Icelandic , although the tax/fee and availability computation may affect the final price . Indeed Reykjavik is an inconvenient place to stop for most travellers so the airline tries to sweeten the deal with flexibility on the stopovers . You can see that begins to shine through in the fare restrictions : [ REK is the city code for Reykjavik covering both airports there , as NYC is for New York or LON is for London . FI is the airline code for Air Icelandic . ] But then why are " poor " cities so expensive ? Some far flung cities seem like they are massively overpriced : how could the average local resident of this place * afford the prices from there to London ? But then you look at the profile of the customers on the flight : NGOs , western charities , oil company representatives , adventure tourists . Some places do n't attract the kind of demand required to bring the prices down . * ( I do n't want to insult anyone so let 's leave the city blank . ) Airline " politics " ( or political economics ) Emirates wants you to visit Dubai . Let 's look at another example : Madrid to Osaka via Dubai on Emirates . Same circumstances/dates as before . Cheapest fare in September is presently 729 Euros return . Can we do a stopover without repricing the fare ? Yes . Actually because the airport fees are recalculated on a stopover it adds about 40 EUR to the final price . ( Why are there eight permitted when the route could not possibly support that many ? Well the fare rules are generated by macros to cover many scenarios . ) But Dubai is an increasingly important commercial centre , it is no longer a desert backwater with a runway . Why is EK willing to allow stopovers here , for free , below the market price ? I believe EK thinks that the more people spend time in Dubai , the more business will be attracted to the city and their future prospects will grow accordingly . Alternatively the Dubai Emirate may sponsor it . But it is only a guess . Qatar keeps tight control of policy Let us look at one of their major competitors , Qatar , who do a similar route under similar circumstances : MAD-DOH-KIX and back , 709 EUR without the stop . Taking the stop adds about 100 EUR . So not enormous but you can see , it is n't free . Now I know from a friend at Qatar Airways that the
Re Minimimising weight of checked in " suitcase " : In probably everywhere I 've been you can buy large strong cheap ( choose any 3 ) polypropylene ( I think ) bags which fold flat with a very small volume , are strong enough to resist airline handling and which cost very little ( see photo below . They have a zip top , come usually in pastel stripes or tacky tartan or a generally ikky colour . I and my family use these as what I term " Ocean Jumping Bags " . They are light enough and compact enough that that can be folded up and kept until the next ocean-hop arrives - but also cheap enough and available enough that they can be discarded and replaced when required . In the absence of these life savers a piece of plastic tarpaulin plus parcel tape would be almost as useful , but lacks the zip and more easily sealed nature of the bag . These bags can either be packed with all checked-in material and no other bag , or smaller bags &amp; boxes and loose material can be placed in them . They are usually of larger volume than required and , rather than committing a large floppy bag to the baggage handlers ' tender care , I usually fold them into a compact bundle and then wrap them in parcel tape . The handles are sewn on and will tear off without much effort , but the actual bags are awesome strong . As the bags offer little or no protection against impact I put more delicate material in the middle wrapped around with clothes ( and sometimes extra packing if required ) and / or with rigid less breakable objects and then wrap with tape . Such an arrangement has never been torn open in transit when I 've used it , and would probably survive any conceivable treatment it would receive OCEAN JUMPING BAGS Three samples - various sizes . The largest is 700mm square by 250mm thick and weighs 210 grams ( 7 ounces ) and 120 + litres capacity and cost about $ US5 retail late at night ( In Australia , but relatively cheap anywhere ) . Add a bit more weight for tape if desired . Middle can be thicker if desired just by packing more in there . Coke box for sizing . Tasteful editing to meet domestic censor 's requirements . That bag has more volume ( 120 litres + ) than the all except the very largest suitcase you 'll be liable to find . ( The large bag was bought in Australia and brought two backpacks back to NZ . The medium one was bought somewhere in Asia and brought now unknown sundries to NZ . ) <URL> Added October 2015 : I just visited Australia for two weeks . On the return flight I ended up on a China-Airlines flight . Reading the fine print showed the checked baggage allowance was 20 kg ( unlike the now usual 23 kg ) and they specifically said that bags combined together either by taping/wrapping or with several bags inside a large outer bag were unacceptable - the only time I 've ever seen either of those stipulations . In the event - at checkin we were told that the checked allowance was 25 kg and while the person on the counter was aware of the " not taped together " requirement it was clear that it WOULD have been acceptable if done well - they appeared to be trying to avoid a multi part mess thrown together badly so that it may come apart en route Given hjow baggage handlers sometimes throw bags around extremely roughly ( based on numerous reports and my personal observations on a number of occasions ) this seems a reasonable requirement .
While the answer from a Parisian is probably ' all over ' or ' my local patisserie ' , for those among us who are n't locals , <URL> ( 72 Rue Bonaparte , 75006 Paris , France ) is probably a good place to start . However , they tend to use it as part of other desserts , like their <URL> : Dacquoise biscuit with crunchy hazelnuts , hazelnut crisp , thin wafers of milk chocolate , milk chocolate ganache and milk chocolate chantilly . There 's a website , Parispatiserries , which <URL> : And that Dacquoise itself was really the highlight for me . Not only was the internal texture of it moist and slightly spongy , but it had a beautiful sweetness and surface texture that Mr. Tongue found thoroughly amusing . As an alternative , though , if you wish to focus on it just as a dessert , <URL> ( 25 , rue Jussieu , Paris , France ( Panthéon ) ) also serves it . <URL> and ranks it # 245 of 13,636 Restaurants in Paris .
The <URL> is crystal clear : passengers must be given the possibility of opting out from a security scanner . In this case the passenger shall be screened by an alternative screening method including at least a hand search ; The UK governments , as usual in their bizarre anti freedom ways tried to resist opt outs going so far in 2010 , <URL> Earlier this month two women , one a Muslim , became the first people to be barred from boarding a flight at Manchester airport because they refused to go through a full-body scanner . but as of <URL> you can opt out at every UK airport as well .
Short answer , no -- not really . You could always take a change of clothes ( or at least a different top ) in your carry on and attempt to freshen up in the toilets . Take some wet wipes too . You could also try and find a shower in the city before heading to the airport . Depending what airport you 're in there may be a way to pay for lounge / shower access -- if there 's a transit hotel they let you pay for a room for an hour . However , I really would n't worry about it that much . If you can change at least some of your clothes it 'll make a big difference but your sense of smell is significantly dulled in flight so once you 're airborne I doubt people will notice . And planes are generally pretty smelly anyway ( although you never really notice until you land and you leave ) . If you 're really worried about it try to get a seat with noone beside you ( reserve a seat at the back of the plane , do n't check-in too early , check the seat plan when you check in and change seats if it looks like there 's a better chance of getting an empty seat beside you ) . Also , do n't use the aftershave . Or any other way to mask the scent . Putting on deorderant in the morning before everything is fine . But I 'd much rather sit next to someone who 's organically a bit wiffy than someone who 's tried to douse that in aftershave . The first I 'll get used to after a while , the second is likely to give me a headache and make the flight much less enjoyable . But thanks for worrying about it -- most people do n't ( which is why you probably should n't too much either ) .
Timatic is generally considered the definitive reference for Visas . It 's what most travel agents use when booking tickets , and what most airlines use when verifying you have the correct visa before boarding . In general <URL> is n't free , however a number of websites do allow free access to it , such as <URL> and <URL> . You can use either of these websites to check the requirements not only for your destination , but also any transit points .
Summary : I think your best bet is to look up the price for a slightly shortened trip on <URL> , from the first train 's first stop to the last train 's next-to-last stop . You can find non-TGV prices on Rail Europe as well . I just went to <URL> , entered Paris to Grenoble and clicked on " check fares " . As you can see , the cheapest fare if you book now is slightly cheaper than the TER fare ( which you can get on an open ticket , but only at a station , not online ) . However , I do n't know how reliable this far is , especially since I did n't even manage to display it in EUR . Rail Europe tends to have a markup ; I 'm not sure if this markup is consistent between modes . On <URL> , there indeed seems to be no way to select only trains without compulsory booking ( TER and Intercités , not Teoz ) . The <URL> website does n't have rates , but anyway there are n't any Intercités involved in a trip between Paris and Grenoble , only TGV or TER . You can look up the price of TER on each regional website , accessed from the <URL> . It takes a lot of clicks and it 's in French . Eventually you might be able to find prices for each leg of your journey ( I 'm not even sure of that , for trains that cross several regions there may be cases where you ca n't know the price for a span that crosses a region border ) . Rates are degressive , so the price from your origin to your destination will be slightly less than the sum of the prices of each leg . You may be able to get a rough idea of prices if you split your journey into several legs for which TGV does n't make sense . For example , you can see from the schedules on the DB website that the first stop after Paris on the Paris to Grenoble by TER trip is Sens , and the last stop before Grenoble is Voiron ; if you ask Voyages-SNCF to go from Sens to Voiron , you 'll get prices for the TER-only trip . Rates are degressive , so the price for Paris to Grenoble will be only a little more . Sorry for the suckiness of SNCF 's web sites , it 's very well-known in France . Your best bet to find prices is at a station . Ask an employee , as the machines are n't always able to find trip possibilities that are n't the fastest . In any case , for a trip where you do n't book in advance , you 'll often have to buy your ticket at the station .
If you use the <URL> , then for journeys involving King George Square station the planner will tell you which part of the platform to use , eg 7.10 pm Depart King George Square station , platform 2D That involves having internet access to look up your journey details , which may not be available . If you arrive at the station without having the chance to check online , then there is a big bank of screens above the escalators to each platform . These show the next 5 buses to call at each stop along the platform . Depending on the stop and the time of day , this could be anything between 5 minutes into the future and over an hour , so you may see what you need up there , or you may not . All depends on how soon until your bus . The displays look something like this : Alternately , there is a map of which routes use which stop . Annoyingly , it does n't seem to be available anywhere around the station entrance , nor just after arriving on the platform . I only found it almost at the far end of the platform , where it 's much less use as you 've already walked past most of the stop information boards ! The photo below is a bit blury , but should at least give you an idea of the information poster to look for if you need it . So , short answer - if you have internet and/or your bus leaves in a few minutes , you 're fine . Otherwise , you 'll probably have to walk along the platform checking each stop , unless Translink decide to be helpful and put up some more of the " which stop " posters in useful places ...
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
end question
start question
Is it safe to use earbuds in an airplane ?
They are not going to be ' sucked in ' . Pressure increase in the cabin ( causing inward pressure ) happens fairly gradually as the plane descends . Even in an uncontrolled dive , it will take awhile for a plane to go from cruising altitude ( 30.000 feet or so ) to 8.000 feet at which point the outside and inside pressure is about equal . The only possible rapid change in cabin pressure ( that you will hopefully never experience ) is a drop in pressure ( <URL> ) . This will cause the earbuds to be expelled from your ears ( assuming the pressure differential is large enough to overcome the friction between the earbuds and your ear canal ) because the outside pressure will now be lower than within your ear canal and thus the inside pressure will seek to normalize by expanding . So you have nothing to worry about .
A few reasons : a final sanity check that you did n't walk down the wrong corridor . Some gates have two ' legs ' . Or you could have snuck on or something . On larger planes , to see what aisle you should walk down . Otherwise people will randomly choose one and spend time climbing over seats and getting in the way . They 're on a time schedule , and want you boarded as fast as possible . To greet you - if you 're a club member or similar . Some may have extra ' cues ' on that they need to be aware of - you might require assistance . In addition to which aisle , which direction - sometimes you board behind 1st class , so they need to direct you that way . But yeah , it 's annoying ;)
If you just care about terrorist attacks or ISIS activities , I can say that here is totally safe ( at least now ) . Although , as I mentioned in another post , some regions in Sistan-Baluchestan are the exceptions because of drug smugglers and some terrorists as well . On the other hand , if you care about political issues and somethings that are related to the government , I have no clear idea . Usually the UK and US citizens have some problems . However , I have personally seen several UK tourists in Tehran that were content with Iran . And finally , obviously there are thieves here too . You must watch out your pocket .
Buy two full-fare tickets . They are typically fully refundable . Obviously , check before you purchase . You typically buy directly from the airline . Then , whether she says yes or no , get them refunded and buy something sane . You 'll have to pay a small charge , but nothing compared to the fare difference . Or -- and this is cheaper if you are going to just print the ticket yourself -- forge the tickets completely . Just take an old ticket and replace the dates and destinations .
My understanding is that chlorine , in the concentrations found in drinking water , does not pose an acute health danger . There may be health risks associated with long-term exposure , and this is a more controversial topic , where the literature and expert opinions are mixed . Most main-stream information seems to suggest it 's safe , but the skeptics claim a corporate bias , etc. . Some of the long-term exposure risks reported are <URL> . Note that much of claimed risk is associated with long , hot showers , not drinking it . If you 're only visiting for a while , and do n't have any known Chlorine sensitivities , you 'll probably be just fine . If the taste bothers you , or you 're especially concerned about long-term health affects , drink bottled water . Some related SE posts : <URL> <URL> <URL>
As per Lonely Planet <URL> , only currency that can be withdrawn in Zambia is Zambian Kwacha . If you have make payment in USD , then either carry the cash in USD or withdraw money in Zambian Kwacha and buy USD from the banks . In case you decide to carry cash in USD , keep in mind few things ( quoting from the above link ) - All USD must be new editions ( 2006 for some denominations and 2009 for others ) . No creases , no marks . Carry large denominations ( $ 50 and $ 100 ) as they can only be changed as the exchange bureau All ATMs accept Visa cards , but most do n't accept your Master Card And also there was a ruling in June 2012 that companies are not allowed to deal in USD and can only accept the local currency Kwacha . So check with the places where you were asked to pay in USD once again , they might ask you to pay in Kwacha after this ruling . PS : Zambia is changing its currency in January 2013 and dividing their currency by 1000
I bought a <URL> in December 2012 in a Kaufland supermarket in Berlin . <URL> was via the congstar web site , and done in some minutes . There are several thirty day data packages available , most notably : 1GB at 12.90 EUR and 3GB at 19.90 EUR . congstar is a discount daughter company of Deutsche Telekom ( T-Mobile ) , and network coverage of Deutsche Telekom is perhaps the best in Germany . Concerning your question : If you subscribe to a data package , it will only be extended if there is sufficient credit on your card . There is no deactivation fee . Quote from the section for the 1GB data package , Surf Flat Option 1000 , in the <URL> ( German ) : Die Buchung und die Wirksamkeit der Option setzt voraus , dass der Kunde zum jeweiligen Abbuchungszeitpunkt des monatlichen Optionspreises über ein ausreichendes Guthaben auf seinem Guthabenkonto verfügt . Der Abrechnungszeitraum der Option beträgt 30 Tage . Die Option verlängert sich automatisch jeweils um 30 Tage , wenn sie nicht mit einer Frist von einer Woche zum Ende eines 30-Tage-Zyklus gekündigt wird . Weist das Guthabenkonto zum Abbuchungszeitpunkt kein ausreichendes Guthaben auf und kann der Optionspreis nicht abgebucht werden , gelten die Konditionen der Option bis zu einer erfolgreichen Abbuchung nicht mehr und die Datennutzung wird nutzungsabhängig nach dieser Preisliste abgerechnet . Soweit die Option nicht gekündigt wurde , führt congstar maximal bis zu einer Dauer von 180 Tagen regelmäßig einen Abbuchungsversuch durch . Wenn dieser erfolgreich ist , erhält der Kunde eine SMS-Information und die genannten Verbindungen werden wieder zu den Konditionen der Option abgerechnet . Andernfalls wird die Option gelöscht . As Google Translate struggles with this text , a rough translation done by me ( disclaimer : IANAL - I am not a lawyer ) : The booking and validity of the option ( i.e. data package ) requires that , at times of billing of the monthly option price , the customer has sufficient credit on his prepaid account . Billing period for the package is 30 days . The option automatically extends for 30 days , unless it was cancelled at least one week before the end of the 30 day cycle . If , at the time of billing , the prepaid account does not have sufficient credit and the option price can not be withdrawn , then the option will not be valid anymore and data usage will be billed according to usage as described in this price list . If the option has n't been cancelled , then congstar will repeatedly attempt to withdraw from your prepaid account up to a maximum of 180 days . Once an attempt has been successful , the customer gets an SMS information and data connections will again be billed according to the option . Otherwise , the option will be deleted . Just to clarify : Guthabenkonto refers to the virtual account where the money is stored that you charged your card with . Above , I translated it as prepaid account . Guthabenkonto does not refer to your bank account , which you do n't have to specify , unless you want automatic recharging for convenience .
Some airline authorities recognise the exact scenario you raise . The UK <URL> state : Young children and infants who are accompanied by adults , should ideally be seated in the same seat row as the adult . Children and accompanying adults should not be separated by more than one aisle . Where this is not possible , children should be separated by no more than one seat row from accompanying adults . This is because the speed of an emergency evacuation may be affected by adults trying to reach their children . The <URL> state : 4 ) Passenger Assessment Process for Exit Seating . While the regulation specifically defines the criteria for persons occupying an exit seat , the method by which the airline employee assesses the person assigned to an exit seat should be defined by the air carrier in its company manual . This process generally requires a physical observation of the person and should require additional processes , such as conversation with the person , to determine if he or she meets the selection criteria ( the person has the ability to hear , understand , and impart information , and is not distracted by other responsibilities such as caring for small children or other traveling companions , etc. ) . Airlines may re-seat adults sat in the exit row if they are responsible for children as they understand that the adult may not take their exit row responsibilities above the care for their children . Update : A <URL> has just been passed in the US . SEC . 2309 . Family seating . ( a ) In general . -- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act , the Secretary of Transportation shall review and , if appropriate , establish a policy directing all air carriers providing scheduled passenger interstate or intrastate air transportation to establish policies that enable a child , who is age 13 or under on the date an applicable flight is scheduled to occur , to be seated in a seat adjacent to the seat of an accompanying family member over the age of 13 , to the maximum extent practicable and at no additional cost , except when assignment to an adjacent seat would require an upgrade to another cabin class or a seat with extra legroom or seat pitch for which additional payment is normally required .
Luggage gets lost when : It does n't make it to the plane on time , or It is sent to the wrong place , or It is stolen wholesale . Checking in early reduces the risk of # 1 , and has no impact on # 2 , leaving only case # 3 to worry about . Breaking that down in turn , there 's basically two ways for bags to get stolen : Opportunistic theft of arrived bags from the baggage area ( = guy in suit " accidentally " picking up your suitcase instead ) . Obviously checking in early has no impact on this . Professional gangs of thieves in the airport itself spiriting away bags . Typically they 've got one accomplice checking for juicy items ( cameras , laptops etc ) in the X-rays , and another taking the bags thus spotted . Now odds are the " steal or not " decision is made pretty much instantly ( " Hey Bob ! Make sure the purple suitcase for flight XY123 falls off the conveyor belt , mmkay ? " ) , but maybe having a lot of time helps ? So if you 're in an airport known for theft and you 're checking in something you really should n't be checking in , then you might want to check in as late as possible . But if you 're sensible and put all your valuables in carry-on luggage like you should , then you have nothing to worry about from these guys , and checking in early will reduce the overall odds of it getting lost .
Macau had a reputation for being a haven for triads and gangs during the 90s , when it was still under Portuguese rule . However , once under the Chinese government , this has practically been cleaned up with regards to violent crime . As the world 's largest gambling destination , there is a lot of money laundering , prostitution , and drug trafficking that goes on - indeed , <URL> - in terms of crime directed towards a person , Macau is safe similar to most developed countries . I 've been to Macau a few times , and whether alone or as a couple , never felt that I was unsafe . Depending on which bits of Macau you 're interested in - and this would typically be <URL> , where most of the casinos are - streets are relatively busy most hours of the day because there are enough tourists / casino patrons around .
I will assume you mean the Portland in Oregon as opposed to the one in Maine . If this is not the case , this answer does not apply.However , if the Portland , Oregon location is the one intended , I recommend it highly for touring , even at night . It was our base of operations for a Pacific Northwest vacation we took approximately 3 years ago , and the atmosphere was very friendly . Downtown touring , the parks , the very evolved public transportation system , all were very accomodating , and we were extremely comfortable . I tend to the paranoid , and I never felt the least uncomfortable or unsafe . I ca n't speak to whether it has changed , but I would probably have noticed if there were any publicity of an increase in crime or danger .
There 's nothing wrong with going into Jordan on an Israeli passport . I know ( second/third-hand ) people who have done so . Israel and Jordan currently have full diplomatic ties . Chances are , if you try and hide things , they 'll get more suspicious . Several years ago , we traveled US-England-Turkey on American passports , and from Turkey to Israel ( also on the American passport ) , intending to use the Israeli passport only to get in/out of Israel . In Turkey , however , they did ask to see our Israeli passports . So you see , better to be totally upfront and use the same passport in both places ( unless you have a good reason not to , such as when entering/leaving the passport 's country ) .
The most usual case when the rental companies will upgrade your car to the next better class is when there are no cars of your class available , so if you rent from an off airport office you 're more likely to get a better car then when you rent from a larger office like the ones at major airports .
According to <URL> of 1.5 billion domestic airfares over almost 5 million trips the answer is no , it is not more expensive to buy at Christmas simply because it is Christmas . The price fluctuates considerably with a sweet spot of cheap stability seen " one to four months out " . You may well have seen the price increase , but given the degree of change they have observed this is a normal part of the process and is not associated with the time of year .
Basically to be on the safe side , ask at each place you intend to use them . As the site you pointed out says , they may require a permit to use . <URL> also cites it as a concern : Any form of hobby that involves cameras , binoculars or telescopes may well be misunderstood by military or police officials if practiced anywhere near a government building , military site or airport . Of course , by misunderstood I mean they may arrest you , confiscate your equipment and wonder what it was you found so interesting about their military base . So , leave the bird watching or plane spotting for places where you 're less liable to look like you 're up to something dodgy basically . And the site <URL> says almost exactly the same thing : Hobbies that involve cameras and binoculars , such as bird watching and plane spotting , may be misunderstood - particularly near military sites , government buildings and airports . Long story short - it 's better to ask at your hotel , and at the ticket office or information center for every place you intend to use them . If you 're concerned , there are the built-in binoculars at the top , <URL> .
As a local it 'll be different , as you 're living part of any conflicts . However , as a traveller sometimes you 're at risk because you 're naive and have no idea about how to act , where to go and what not to do in these situations . At the same time you 're also sometimes not a target , depending on the circumstances . In these times , the best place to go is various countries ' government travel advisory pages . For example , the <URL> . Some of these you 'd expect from news ; places like Mali , Syria or Yemen , but there are also some surprises sometimes - for a while the Australian travel advisory site listed New Zealand as a place of warning - in post-earthquake Christchurch . In this case , the US State Department site does n't list India at all , so they 're not concerned about you travelling there . However , I tend to look at the NZ Safe Travel Site , also a government site , as they list their assessment of EVERY country . In the case of India - <URL> actually lists a few major concerns , and in the case of areas you 're asking about : There is high risk to your security in the north eastern states of Tripura , Manipur , Assam , Nagaland and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel to these states due to the threat of terrorist activity , violent crime and demonstrations . Their page was updated today , so it 's fairly current .
Cycling is generally very safe , particularly in Taito-ku . There are n't any bike lanes really but you 're free to cycle on the pavement , as long as you dismount when it 's too crowded . Furthermore drivers are used to cyclists , just keep tight to the left on bigger roads . Helmets are seldom worn , even by mothers with a kid on the front , one on the back and one strapped to their chest . Parking is a bit different . If you lock your bike up ( not that it 's really necessary , generally it 's very unlikely your bike will get stolen ) just anywhere , you 'll be either asked to move along or get a warning ticket stuck to it . Leave it too long and the council will lift it . Even designated parking areas ( usually outside stations ) often require a residency tag / pass from the council . As such I usually park outside convenience stores - allowed , and no chance of it getting moved . <URL> whilst cycling either - you 'll likely be stopped ( though they 're very polite and will do their best to explain in English ) . Other than that , Tokyo is great to bike around ! Perfect way to take in the sights , particularly within the Yamanote loop . ( Fellow Edinburger in Tokyo :) )
The main difference between liquid soap and dish washer detergent is price . So not a good idea in general , but only because liquid soap is more expensive . One recipe for liquid soap is given <URL> -- note olive oil , coconut oil , essential oils . Some of the ingredients for a well-known brand of washing liquid are listed <URL> -- note Sodium laureth sulphate , Alcohol denat , sodium chloride . For the first of these three <URL> has " SLES is an inexpensive and very effective foaming agent . " For the second , consumers are used to alcohol ( ethanol ) being expensive , but that is only because of the tax . Denatured ( methylated spirits ) it is very much less expensive . <URL> is offered for AUD 3.30 . The third is common salt . Consider instead the first of the natural liquid soap ingredients . <URL> is offering one litre of olive oil for AUD 5.99 . Coconut oil is much more expensive still - AUD 20 per litre at <URL> . However , while Cocamidopropyl betaine features in detergents it is derived from coconut oil . According to <URL> " soap is natural and detergent is n't " . That was the case around the time detergents were being developed ( say 1930-50 ) but now most ' soaps ' are synthetic products . Another significant difference is the ecological effects -- see <URL> . Soap made from natural products is far friendlier to the environment . However , in terms of cleaning power they both work the same way . They are surface active molecules that cling to dirt at one end and to water at the other , and then get flushed away ( with the dirt ) on rinsing . Though there are some differences in how the two respond in ' hard ' water ( that is , where the mineral content is high ) . In terms of bactericides , some dish washing liquids are advertised for their disinfectant properties but , as with much else in the world of soaps and detergents , there is a LOT of hype . " Soaps " ( some TV programmes ) are not called what they are because the industry giants could not afford millions to promote products earning them billions . Dirty dishes are ones we have just eaten off -- they are not an environment that supports germs the way the human body does . Do we wash our hands in washing up liquid after a trip to the lavatory ? No we use ' soap ' ( at least , I hope you do ) because that kills germs . So , any form of detergent is good enough for dishes and liquid soap more expensive - but much more environmentally responsible . From a travel aspect however washing up liquid is generally more concentrated than ' liquid soap ' so might be more practical if to be carried around . The greater concentration is also a positive for washing up liquids to offset some of their environmental negatives .
Considering champagne is a non-flammable liquid , the TSA apparently <URL> as checked luggage . And this does n't really surprise me . A bottle of Pepsi , deodorant spray and even compressed gas canisters are all ok to check in .
In general , you can find information about what items are permitted on the flight on both the website of the airline ( they will have a restricted items page ) and on the website of the relevant athourity who would control things for the country you are flying from . As you do n't give that here , I 'm going to take the information from the <URL> , which under the category " Sporting Goods " says : Bows and crossbows | Hand luggage : No . | Checked Luggage : Yes . with no additional restrictions . So you will probably be OK . If I were you however , I 'd enquire about the legality of possessing and transporting these items in your destination country - archery is a fairly common hobby , so I doubt they are illegal anywhere , but some places may restrict how they are transported and where they can be removed from containers .
end question
start question
Where should I stay in London with an early Heathrow departure ?
Paddington is fine - not only that , it 's even smart ! You have several options from there : the Heathrow Express . 15 min to the airport . They say there 's that length transfer , but if you 're in a hurry you 'll beat that . naturally transport fails . If the Express is down , sometimes the regular trains are still running overground . This only takes about 10 minutes longer , from memory ( see my link at the end ) and is nearly half the price . The Tube ! If the overground option is out , you can take the tube down to Earl 's Court , switch ( 2 min transfer ) and take the Picadilly line out to the airport . Buses - there are buses to Hammersmith and buses from there out to the airport , but by now you 're getting desparate ... Taxi - last resort as they 'll be expensive , but you can get the taxi from right outside the station and they 'll drop you at Terminal 3 . They 'll also know the fastest way - London Black Cab taxi drivers are like if Einstein studied traffic logistics . Seriously . There are quite a few places around Paddington to stay - within minutes - from hostels to hotels . There are also pubs , a few small restaurants and some take-outs . On the Hammersmith and City line you can even get around to Westfield Mall in not too long . Finally , I mentioned a link - two actually - <URL> and <URL> . They 'll tell you exactly how long it 'll take - even differentiating between terminals at Heathrow , and can be configured to reduce walking time and so on . Good luck !
Both cities are really interesting destinations . The question to distinct between the two is whether or not you like tourist spots . Bruges is the more touristic city of the two . Personally I would go ofr Ghent and do a day trip to Bruges . But the other way around is perfectly possible . However if you really would like to escape the crowds , go to Lier or Hasselt . No tourists and really pearls to visit .
As far as I know Oyster card is only valid in London . They are trying to extend it to neighbouring towns ( I think at some point you will be able to use it on train services to get to some of the airports ) , but definitely it does n't work in Leeds . Note that if you have a contactless credit/debit card , you can use this one instead . There are daily caps on all travel in London which are the same as a daily ticket , and I think at least at the beginning there was a weekly cap . More details : <URL>
There is a <URL> which gives street address and map locations for many of their stops .
TFL Website Have you tried <URL> ? Bus Maps by City Area It allows you to download PDF 's with bus maps by city area ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) . Interactive Maps You can also view maps interactively from the site . Zoom in to view the bus stops , click on the bus stop you need , and zoom out to see the bus routes . Below is a screenshot for the routes passing via Trafalgar Square stop ' T ' : <URL> Bus Spider Maps Finally , the website allows you to <URL> . You can search for the individual bus line , or by borough . Below is what <URL> looks like : <URL>
Risk of contracting malaria is higher in nearby countries than in Thailand . Look at this map from <URL> : Risky areas are clearly regions bordering neighbouring countries . <URL> , malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water . When you 're in Bangkok next to Chao Phraya river or on beach somewhere else , these conditions are unlikely to be satisfied . What you need to check though is when are you travelling to Thailand . There has been <URL> and you need to check whether you 're travelling to an affected area . Flooded areas will have conditions conducive for spread of the kind of mosquito that transmits malaria . If you 're really concerned , you can always you can take antimalarials with you as well as <URL> .
Having a car in Berlin is more hassle than a convenience , just because of the parking situation , and the money you spend on parking meters . Driving in Berlin is also not exactly fun with the traffic congestion , or much faster than the bus or subway either . Leave your car at home , save the money and then decide after 3 months if you really need a car in berlin .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
If you do a search with the terms sushi com chocolate ( sushi with chocolate ) you will find plenty of recepies . Nevertheless , it 's certainly not a trend , I have ate sweet sushi before but I had never heard of norimaki with chocolate before . It 's really common to find sweet temakis ( " sweet kones " ) for dessert , I would n't be surprised to find one with chocolate , but they certainly do n't have fish on them :) They are not temaki in my opinion , as they are normally not rolled in nori . It depends on where you are , but I 'd search for temaki doce ( sweet temaki ) , along with the name of the city where you are to find places to eat .
If you are concerned about the care of dolphins , do n't go swimming with them . Whale and Dolphin Conservation have an article about the <URL> . Dolphins are very intelligent animals , in the wild they can travel great distances . If kept in confinement , are not able to live naturally , and travel and hunt as they would in the wild . Captive dolphins can suffer from a range of illnesses , and die at a much a younger age . Dolphins are captured from wild populations , separated from their family groups , with many killed in the process . Swimming with dolphins causes more issues - in captivity , they are not able to get away from people if they wanted , so can become stressed . They may behave aggressively - dolphins are wild animals , and can be rather large and strong , so may cause injuries to swimmers .
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
The main concern you must be aware of for such tours is that you have to get details before booking it . The laws regarding such weapon are very strict here in Russia , and such shooting is allowed to take place only in shooting clubs and polygons . Quite popular <URL> is all about shooting in specific place ( shooting club ) , with no outdoor experience . Yes , you can take photos , but they would n't be shocking . From other side , you 'll get shooting experience from a real weapon . I suggest you to search shooting clubs directly ( <URL> in Moscow , <URL> in Saint Petersburg ) , without travel agencies - you 'll save your money and would n't be limited in time or number of bullets . Even more , you can choose some other weapon , for example , in BSC : First WW weapons Maksim machine-gun <URL> Mosin 's riffle <URL> Second WW weapons PPSh-41 ( Shpagin 's submachine gun ) <URL> Dozens of AK modification , even handle machine gun : <URL> One bullet ( especially for old weapons ) is up to 80 RUR , so for 50 USD you can book 20 bullets and a taxi from your hotel in Saint Petersburg . Prices in Moscow can be greater up to 20 % more . <URL> , as I think , is the similar to previous one , as they say that you 'll fire from 50 meter distance , which is a standard distance for shooting clubs . All other offers are about shooting from copies of weapon , which are pneumatic , so this can be done only for photos :) I suggest you to google the <URL> in Moscow , it 's fun , you 'll take many photos , eat a real soldier 's food , learn how to disassemble AKM , but shooting is made from a copies , as I said already . The price for tour I 've linked is 2400 RUR , which is near 50 USD . In Saint Petersburg you can find a popular tour for <URL> - you 'll learn how to drive a real military car : <URL> More options can be found <URL> ( there are some tours for <URL> , <URL> and even <URL> ) , but they are more expensive than you can spend :) ( starting from 6400 RUR , which is near 120 USD ) . <URL> can be done too .
You have to follow both , i.e. stay at most 28 days at some time between 02/08/2015 and 13/09/2015 . Therefore , you can not stay longer than 28 days on this visa in any event and if you have not used your 28 days by the 13th of September , you must leave anyway . You also have to respect the number of entries , which means that if you enter some time in August and leave a few days later , you can not use this visa anymore and you lose the benefit of the rest of the maximum period of stay . 09/08/2015 to 05/09/2015 is indeed 28 days and within the period of validity of your visa , so that 's fine . In principle , the conditions of your visa should be based on the information you submitted with your application and allow you to complete your trip as intended . The validity is typically a little longer to give you some flexibility .
I suggest <URL> I tend to avoid having to rent cars , but the few times I have , I found these guys to be the cheapest . They source car hires from multiple providers and , consistently , for me , have been cheaper than renting with the individual providers themselves .
Prague 1 has both the biggest concentration of bars , clubs and old pubs , and the biggest concentration of sights . Check out the Foursquare map for the <URL> : And the <URL> : Therefore you should stay in Prague 1 . I can recommend staying near the <URL> , as that 's the nexus of Prague 's public transport .
In Netherlands there is this <URL> The entire airplane has been converted into a single luxury suite for two guests . This means you have the complete craft at your disposal -- including its top-flight facilities , which include a Jacuzzi , separate shower , infrared sauna , mini bar , 3 flat screen televisions , blu-ray DVD player with a comprehensive collection of DVDs , a pantry with oven/microwave combination , coffee and tea maker , free wireless internet , air conditioning , etc. . PRICE : An overnight stay for 2 persons including a luxury breakfast costs $ 350 . The airplane is available to you from 15:00 on the day of your arrival to 11:00 on the day of your departure . There 's also a <URL>
Assuming you 're also exluding mountains only accessible by <URL> , the highest one I 've heard of is <URL> ( 3438 m ) in Italy near the border to France . Here 's a <URL> . The most difficult/dangerous part can be seen at 1:40 - and you can see that it 's a very popular tour .
You can return a rental car early , but whether you get any refund , or even get penalized for the early return , depends on the terms and conditions spelled out in your particular rental agreement . By returning early , you may forfeit certain discounts . For example , a rental car agency may be willing to give you a weekly rate for a five-day rental , but switch to the daily rate for a four-day rental . By returning the car early , the rental car agency may further claim that your original contract has been violated , allowing them to charge a higher rate , but that will not be true for every company or for every jurisdiction . Some agencies may charge an early return fee for postpaid hires . Alamo is well-known for charging $ 15 for early returns , and there are many anecdotes of agency absurdities like <URL> for returning a car 10 minutes early . The reason for the charge , as <URL> is to compensate us in part for our inability to rent your vehicle during the time reserved for your use . On prepaid rentals , again , whether or not you receive any refund for the time remaining depends on your agreement . <URL> that they will recalculate charges based on the actual time rented , while their competitors Hertz and Alamo do not -- but see above for other shadiness from Budget .
The National Express website is presumably the one you mean , where it <URL> . However , if you look further down the page , it says : London ( Shoreditch ) Bethnal Green Rd ( to Stansted Airport : Stop J opp Overground Stn ; or from Stansted : Stop K ) <URL> clearly shows the road running west-east , with the Overground station indicated on the same map . Hope that helps !
" Usual " sales opening To complement other answers , indeed the sales start exactly 90 days in advance on most trains - TGV and Intercités as @audionuma quoted . Be careful though , some trains like regional ones have specific fare policies that include different starting dates , and that depends on each region ( e.g. I tried on the <URL> and I could add a ticket to the cart for a trip in 1 year ) . The price and availability does not vary on these regional trains so no need to book in advance though . However , some products sometimes have different policies on the starting date , in particular iDTGV , Ouigo , TGVs and Intercités . Unusual : TGVs and Intercités for school holidays For the TGVs and Intercités , there are three periods of the year when tickets may be sold earlier : Christmas , winter holidays ( usually in February ) and the summer . If you have a SNCF fidelity card or are a member of Capitaine Train , you shall receive emails warning you in advance of the sales opening for these popular periods . Here I quote an email received on March 28th that sales for the summer ( until August 30th , the last sunday of the summer holiday period ) opened on April 2nd : Pour vous remercier de votre fidélité , nous avons le plaisir de vous informer en avant-première de la prochaine ouverture des ventes de billets de train pour voyager cet été ! Tenez-vous prêt ( e ) ! Le 2 avril dès 6h , TGV et INTERCITÉS ouvrent les ventes pour vos voyages jusqu'au 30 août 2015 en France et quelques destinations en Europe ! I received similar emails for other periods , so in the end the advance booking was available as follows : on November 7th 2014 sales opened until March 9th 2015 on April 2nd 2015 sales opened until August 30th on October 16th 2014 sales opened from December 14th to February 6th These are indicative dates , if you plan on travelling for popular periods and want to take advantage of low prices , you should expect to book around these dates in future years . Unusual : iDTGV and Ouigo For Ouigo , a service intended for low-cost travel , and for iDTGV , another TGV service , the dates are different : on October 1st , 2014 , sales opened for Ouigo until July 6th , 2015 on September 16th , sales opened for iDTGV until March 29th , 2015 So in the end while the common rule is that sales are opened about 3 months in advance , this varies a lot depending on what train you want to take . If you want to travel during school holidays in particular , the sales opening may be earlier ( or later ) than the usual three months . If you want to be notified by email of these sales openings , you can signup for an account at <URL> or <URL> .
end question
start question
Are there still parts of Burma that are off-limits to tourists ?
According to <URL> : Various insurgent groups continue to operate in the Shan , Mon , Chin ( Zomi ) , and Karen States of Myanmar , along the Thai and Chinese borders . Travel to these regions generally requires a government permit . The government also restricts travel to Kayah State , Rakhine State and Kachin state due to insurgent activity . However travel is entirely unrestricted to the districts of Yangon , Bago , Ayeyarwady , Sagaing , Taninthayi , Mandalay and Magwe . So it appears that according to that , at least , there are still restrictions . However , there 's no date given , or source . So next , we 'll go with the <URL> : There is high risk to your security along the borders with China , Laos and Thailand and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel . Military activity , ethnic militias , armed drug smugglers , and the presence of landmines pose a particularly high risk to your safety . Travel restrictions are in place in most border areas and there are only a limited number of legal crossing points . There is high risk to your security in the state of Rakhine where the government has imposed emergency measures following serious civil unrest and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel . There is some risk to your security elsewhere in Myanmar due to the unsettled political situation and threat from terrorism and we advise caution . This was current and updated today , so it seems that there are still some restrictions , although it 's sort of vague . Back to <URL> : Much of Myanmar is closed to foreign travellers , and many land routes to far-flung areas are also closed ( for example , to Mrauk U , Kalewa , Putao , Kengtung ) . Thus , while travellers can travel freely in the Bamar majority Burmese heartland , travel tends to be restricted or circumscribed in other places . In theory , any tourist can apply for a permit to visit any restricted area or to travel on any restricted land route . In practice , it is unlikely that any such permit will be issued in a reasonable amount of time , or at all . Permit requests can be made locally in some cases ( for example , requests for the land route to Kalewa can be made in Shwebo ) but , in most cases , the request has to be made in Yangon . Requests to visit restricted areas must be made at the MTT ( Myanmar Travel and Tours ) office in Yangon ( Number 77-91 , Sule Pagoda Road , Yangon ) . Applications for local permits can often be made at a local MTT office or at a police station . As of writing this , local permits are available only for the following places &amp; routes : this for you . Mrauk U Chin / Zomi village tours . Easily available in Mrauk U but must visit with a guide . Your hotel or a local tour company can arrange this for you . All other permits must be obtained in Yangon . Finally , the <URL> ( they call it Burma ) , with some really good detail on the restrictions : On 31 August the Burmese government announced restrictions on access for tourists to Sittwe and Mrauk-U and a curfew remains in force across much of Rakhine State . We advise against all but essential travel to Rakhine State . The current curfew times are 18:00 to 06:00 , but this may change . We advise any British nationals in Rakhine State to check timings of the curfew locally and follow any instructions . The British Embassy in Rangoon stands ready to provide consular assistance . British nationals working for NGOs and other companies should keep in close contact with those organisations . Following this outbreak of violence , a number of demonstrations took place in Rangoon . While protests have not been violent , we advise that you avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings . The Burmese government restricts travel to most border areas . There are a limited number of legal crossing points , but these could close without notice : You must exit Burma at the same border crossing from which you entered , and Burmese immigration officers may request to hold your passport until your visit is complete . Do not attempt to cross any border illegally or enter restricted areas without the appropriate permissions from the Burmese authorities . The Ministry of Hotels , Tourism and Sport maintains a list of approved destinations . Tourists can visit Rangoon , Mandalay , Bago and Irrawaddy regions without restrictions . Other destinations are subject to limitations : access by air or train but not by road . Queries on permission should be directed to the Burmese authorities , not the British Embassy in Rangoon . See www.myanmartourism.org or call the Ministry of Tourism on +95 67 406129 . Be particularly vigilant if travelling to border areas . There is ongoing military activity close to borders with Thailand , Laos and China especially in Shan , Karen and Kachin States . There is ongoing conflict in parts of Kachin State and the far north of Shan State . Th
I remember reading a piece about these recently enough that I thought it was on here . Evidently not . Anyway , there are brands like Vapestick , which at least on their website state that it 's legal to use them onboard . I assume they 'd get sued to infinity and beyond if that was n't true , by now . <URL> : While it is n't illegal to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes , it could definitely raise questions or cause other passengers to be alarmed , so you will need to approach the situation carefully if you plan on getting away with it . However , further down the same page they also note that despite it not being illegal , many airlines do BAN it , so it 's best to check with your airline first . Electronic cigarettes on planes are banned by some airlines operating in the US . In the UK , you can still get away with it in most cases , but there 's no way of knowing for sure . The easiest way to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes without raising any questions is to smoke in the rest room . Personally I find something mildly suspect about how they tell you to ' get away with it ' and the like . If there 's a place in this modern world you really do n't want to be upsetting people , it 's onboard an airplane at 37k feet ...
A couple of resources that I find useful : <URL> : A comprehensive listing of visa , health , customs ( in its British English , not American English , definition ) for different destinations compiled by IATA . I have found this is fairly accurate . The form , however , is cumbersome as it asks you to fill in far too many details than required . <URL> : I discovered this website fairly recently . It 's simple in that it allows you to choose what country 's passport you hold , and then show a list of countries that have visa-free or visa-on-arrival entry . This is good for a brief overview use it with caution . As of now , it sometimes misses out information that might affect visas due to residency status either way ; sometimes , it 's harder ( you need to go back to country of nationality ) and sometimes it 's easier ( you can get visa-free/on-arrival holding a passport of one country if you 're considered a resident of another ) .
Weekly travelcard : Contactless weekly travelcard is only from Monday to Sunday , so if you arrive and leave mid-week , you might get better rates if you still get an Oyster card , and buy a weekly travelcard on that . On the other hand it might still be cheaper if you do n't intend to travel every day for 7 days to just use your Contactless and use the daily capping rates . Also , if you start your journey after 9:30 every day inside zones 4-6 , and do this at least twice in a week then you 're eligible for the ( not really advertised ) <URL> , which you get as a refund . Getting this refund to an Oyster card as a visitor is usually not possible , as you have to get back to the UK and touch in , but for contactless they can simply just refund to your card , even when you 're long gone . This is also true for any kind of refunds ( like if you forget to touch out somewhere ) : if you 're on contactless you can easily get the refund back to your bank account , but on Oyster you have to be physically present and get a refund at one of the stations by touching in . Boat services : If you plan on using the Thames Clipper boat services , then they offer discounts for people with Oyster cards and/or people with daily/weekly/monthly travelcards ( both paper and oyster ones ) . These discounts are not available for Contactless users . Also from mid September 2015 Oyster cards will be accepted on boat services , but Contactless users have to wait until mid-2016 Buses and trams : There are some slight changes when you use Contactless that will usually not affect your travel though : Contactless payment cards are <URL> on routes 402 and 477 or on the heritage buses which run some journeys on parts of route 15 On Oyster you get the " tram feeder " rates when switching between the trams and the T buses at Addington Village ( you only have to pay for one trip instead of two separate ones ) , but with Contactless you have to pay two separate tickets ( although their site <URL> I occasionally do this trip and it still counts as two separate ones on Contactless , I did n't try to argue with them to get a refund ) This is really a minor difference though , and probably does n't much affect visitors from abroad ( unless visiting friends/relatives in New Addington ) . Banking costs : See @JoErNanO 's answer about potential foreign banking costs associated with Contactless cards
The vast majority of public baths are separated by gender , so although mixed baths still exist , you 're unlikely to find one by chance . No swimsuit ( or anything else ) is normally allowed , as the Japanese consider that it would spoil the water ( not even your hair may touch the water , in particular ) . Again , some special places may allow swimsuits for some reason or other , but you 'd have to specifically look for them . Other than that , the etiquette is pretty much the same as anywhere else in Japan : be discreet . No running , no shouting , etc. . Just mimic the people around you and you will be fine . Edited to add : Maybe this bears emphasis : there is no special rule for foreign women ( or men ) . Even though there is the usual tolerance for some amount of " un-Japanese " behaviour , it does n't go so far as to allow you to wear your swimsuit . You can consider it akin to wearing shoes inside houses or shrines/temples .
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
The ability to leave phones and small electronics turned on is a relatively new privilege with many airlines . And some flight crews still ask travelers to turn them off during take off and landing . During the flight , the captain and the crew under his command are the final authority and can impose additional safety restrictions if they feel them warranted ( same as when they ask you to fasten your seatbelt or return to your seat ) . Just because the safety card says you can use them , does n't give you the right to use them , that permission still lies with the crew .
I contacted the Guernsey Information Centre , North Plantation , St Peter Port , GY1 2LQ Email : info.centre@cultureleisure.gov.gg There response was simply : " Sorry we do not have hostels in Guernsey only normal camp sites "
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
Some airlines do seminars for exactly that ( for example <URL> ) . They explain to you beforehand what sounds you are going to hear , what motions you feel , where they come from and what they mean . Then , they take you on a short flight so you can experience it all with someone giving you live commentary on what is happening . The advantage of those courses is that you feel less like locked into an aluminum can without any idea what is happening but rather experience a flight as an informed person . There are also many other <URL> to combat fear of flying . However , in the end , fear of flying - depending on the level - is a phobia just like any other . It is safer to <URL> for example . The vast majority of spiders are completely harmless , too . From the subject matter , it does not really matter so much if you have arachno-phobia or fear of flying , the psychological process of getting rid of that fear is just the same , but always depending on what works best for your brain . There are <URL> phobias , and once you determine if you just feel uncomfortable in turbulence or if you get a panic attack already when you step into the airplane , you can treat the issue accordingly .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
The answer is both yes and no . Outside Bangkok , Thailand has only two roads that are " real " controlled-access , grade-separated motorways : Route 7 from Bangkok to Pattaya ( 150km ) , which has ( AFAIK ) Thailand 's solitary " real " rest area as well , and Route 5 , which loops around Bangkok 's periphery and which you 're unlikely to venture onto . So , no , you 're not going to find any " real " rest areas driving up from Malaysia to Bangkok . On the other hand , Thailand 's main highways are the country 's lifeblood and are thus full of gas stations , restaurants , motels , etc. . Quite a few of these cater more or less explicitly to buses and travelers and are thus rest areas in all but name , so yes , you can almost always find gas , a meal or a place to sleep when you need one . Not quite as good for hitchhiking as the real thing though ...
The usual commercial problem with sleeper trains is that the vehicles carry significantly fewer passengers than a seated vehicle and often either can not be used at all in daytime , or are stuck at the same capacity as they have overnight . The standard capacities for a European train carriage ( 26m long , with a toilet ) are 36 for a sleeper , 54 for a couchette ( roughly hostel-equivalent accomodation ) , 57 for a first-class seated carriage and 76 for a second-class seated carriage . The proportions will be similar for buses . This means that the sleeper cars have to earn enough money from fewer passengers doing one overnight journey to match several daytime journies for a seated car - but the sleeper is generally more expensive to buy and more expensive to run ( overnight pay for the driver , and usually attendants in addition to the guard/conductor ) . This means that fares have to be a lot higher for a sleeper to make a profit . Sleeper trains have been run by European railways as a loss-making public service , but are being wound down as railways become more commercial . Sleeper buses are going to have a similar set of problems - they will cost more to buy than a conventional bus , and will carry fewer passengers , and will have higher running costs ( at the very least , the bedding will need to be changed and washed ) - and they ca n't be used for daytime journeys , so they will probably sit in the middle of the day . That means they will need to charge a substantial fare premium over a seated coach to make a profit ( at least double and more likely triple the fare ) . In countries where there are good alternatives like car rental or cheap flights , then this is likely to limit the market . Unless they can offer something distinctive ( like an early morning arrival in a city where the airport is not allowed to have night landings ) , they may struggle to get passengers . If there is n't an existing regulatory regime for getting sleeper buses approved , then the costs of getting the government to create one are likely to be too great for an operator to be prepared to pay - and note that some countries prohibit them entirely . Germany is a really important one , as many of the likely routes in Europe would run through Germany , but the German government banned sleeper buses in 2006 .
According to <URL> : Showers - Location : Freshen ' Up International Terminal - landside , level G , Main Hall . Hours : 7:00 am - 11:00 pm . Fee : $ 15 for the Deluxe Shower ( 30 minute shower + 15 minute massage chair with towel , soap , shampoo , lotion , shower shoes , and a hairdryer if required ) / $ 8 for the Standard Shower ( 20 minute shower with soap and towel provided ) . Sleeping - Best sleeping spot Ive found so far is a lounge in Terminal 2 near Baggage Claim # 4 , with two padded benches each of which is big enough for you and the one you love .
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
In addition to other answers , I can think of : A psychological advantage , people who hate flying tend to board late . This somehow makes them feel better . If the plane is not full and you are boarding last , you can sit at any empty seat . Passengers who board early usually sit in their assigned seats to avoid any embarrassments unlike people who board late ( they know there 's few people left ) If you were trying to use some smart ways to be upgraded to B/C or F/C , boarding late is important . If you have an aisle seat ( especially in wide bodied airplane ) boarding late is better to avoid standing and getting out of the way to let people sit . If you are a paranoid person and you are obsessed about gear collapse , boarding late will decrease the chances of facing a gear collapse situation ( gears collapse while the plane is parked , causing the fuselage to hit the ground which might lead to injury ) .
As I originally pointed out the quantity was with-in reasonable personal use , but still theoretically subject to tax . I did declare the small overage but customs agents were n't interested in it and waved me through . Here are the rates for <URL> and for <URL> that I 'd have had to have payed , they amount to under $ 5 a bottle .
An exhibit featuring the official high-fidelity replica , <URL> ( called Explorer when it was in Florida ) , atop the 747 shuttle carrier aircraft , is currently under construction <URL> at the Johnson Space Center in Houston . The <URL> states that Guests can take the elevator to the top to first enter the Independence using a timed-ticketing system . The first stop is be the flight deck , where guests can see how the astronauts piloted the orbiter through missions . One floor down , guests will see how cramped living conditions were on the mid-deck and walk out into the payload bay to see an actual flown artifact ... . Down one more level , guests enter shuttle carrier aircraft NASA 905 , the largest artifact from the Space Shuttle Program on display . Your next best bet is the brand-new <URL> at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton , Ohio , which features the Crew Compartment Trainer , a life-sized mockup . The exhibit " allows visitors to experience the size and shape of an actual space shuttle orbiter by entering the payload bay and looking into the flight deck and mid-deck levels . " My third suggestion would be the <URL> on display at the Museum of Flight in Seattle , Washington . It does not have the wings , but as its name indicates is a full-sized mockup of the fuselage that was used for astronaut training purposes . <URL> are available for a fee on weekends and public holidays . Other simulators are in the possession of the <URL> in North Florida , the Adler Planetarium in Chicago , and as noted by Kate Gregory , Texas A&amp;M University ; however , it is not clear as of February 2016 if any of these are accessible to the public . Shuttle Inspiration , a life-sized mockup of wood and plastic built by Rockwell in 1972 for its official proposal to build the shuttle , is now owned by the City of Downey , California . There are <URL> around it , but <URL> indicate it is being restored in preparation for a tour . I remember climbing on it on a science day for the Boy Scouts way back in the 1980s ; it gives you a sense of its size and the scale of the crew compartments , but of course there would n't be any genuine artifacts , making it just slightly better than various other independently created replicas that seem to be floating around . The <URL> , as you know , can not be entered by the public : Shuttle Enterprise at the Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum in New York . Shuttle Discovery at the Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles , Virginia Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in Los Angeles . Shuttle Atlantis at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor 's Complex in Florida
I 'm Chris from Rome2Rio , if you do n't mind sharing your experience we 'd be keen to find out which TGV routes and European routes in general you have found are missing from Rome2Rio results . This would help us review and improve our results in future . If you prefer you can send the details to feedback@rome2rio.com If you are looking for alternatives to Rome2Rio you could also try <URL> along with the Voyage SCNF site already mentioned . Also there are a couple more German focused sites with similar concepts GoEuro and <URL> in the future they may expand to feature other European countries in their data . Some other sites that you may already be aware of that I 'd recommend would be Bahn a comprehensive schedule planner along with Seat 61 which has good references and guides to travelling by train in Europe . There also several nice sites using the Rome2Rio API , but as it is generally the same dataset as Rome2Rio you may not be as interested in those :)
Certainly . Qantas flies them from Australia . <URL> They 're infrequent , but a few a year do fly down . I watched a documentary on it , it 's crazy that you can pay less for an ' inner ' seat where you do n't even get to see out the window without craning your neck ! From the site : The flight provides a full day of Antarctic experience . Our flight from Australia ranges between 9,500 -- 10,500 kms roundtrip ( approximately 12.5 hours ) depending on your departure city . Expert Antarctic expeditioners are onboard to talk on the polar environment and its history while video screenings depict life on the ground . Approximately three hours south of Australia , passengers will usually see the first scattered ice followed by dozens of icebergs and ice floes . We then cross the South Magnetic Pole where you will start to view the rugged mountainous topography of the Antarctic mainland .
end question
start question
What does the flight jargon " fare class " actually mean ? Is it the same as either " fare basis ( code ) " or " travel class " ?
The fare basis is the airline 's identifier of your exact air fare . This is usually an impenetrable looking 7-to-8 letter string like . The extended version of this is the fare construction , which adds in key details like what flight from where to where this air fare is for . The fare class is simply the first letter of the fare basis , which identifies <URL> and often maps directly to how many frequent flyer miles you 'll get for the flight . This is also known as booking class or , confusingly , ticket class . Finally , travel class is the class of the physical seat you end up in on the plane : first , business , premium economy , economy , etc. . An illustrated example of all four for the same ticket , from long to short : Fare construction : ( Cape Town on Turkish Airways transfer at Istanbul on Turkish Airways to New York City $ 406.06 for fare basis TA2PXOW ... ) Fare basis : Fare class : , <URL> Travel class : Economy
Found <URL> about courier flights . It says that this option is less popular and hard to find than 10 years ago because of air-deliver industry grows from that time . Unlike the late 1990s and early 2000s , when these flights became popular , air cargo companies now have much larger fleets and more sophisticated handling services that work with customs agencies to speed deliveries . Also there is many security restrictions after 9/11 event , so you can be in trouble because you do n't know what exactly you have in your bag .
Right , firstly according to <URL> , each airline has different chime meanings . However , on <URL> , we have a list of all of the chimes - but presumably it 's for a specific plane , and it does n't say which : Generally they are as follows : - 1 x chime for a passenger call bell 2 x chimes if the crew are calling each other 2 x chimes to indicate takeoff and landing 5 x hi / low chimes an emergency !!! 2x bong !! for the seatbelt sign flashing for top of climb for crew to be released and same again for crew to be seated for landing ! 3x Chimes if toilet smoke detector activated 1x Chime for toilet call bell 1x HIGH , HIGH LOW Chime for emergency Interphone call to Manager 1x LOW LOW HIGH Chime for Crew help needed ! If you listen carefully the are two tones of call chime . A high and a low . These will vary depending on operator and aircraft type ! This is confirmed again on <URL> , where they show that for Canadian Airlines it 's as follows : 1 bell - passenger call , lav call , change in cabin signs , five minute warning prior to landing , crew communication via interphone 2 bells - F/A to contact the flight deck for a message 3 bells - Take-off or landing imminent - take your jump seat 5 bells on the ground - evacuate 5 bells inflight - F/A to report immediately to the flight deck to receive emergency instructions The same forums have <URL> , so it would certainly seem to vary from company to company .
There 's a lot of handy info on the <URL> about this . Interestingly , much of it is n't positive about the InterRail discounted tickets ... A couple of key bits to pull out ( but you 'll really want to go and read the whole thing ! ) Eurostar is n't covered ... The best and cheapest option is usually to forget your pass and buy a regular cheap Eurostar ticket well in advance at www.eurostar.com . These start from just # 39 one way or # 69 return ... In theory , Eurostar offers a ' special ' fare for InterRail passholders , # 57 one way , # 100 return , with changes to travel plans allowed , but as you can see , this is actually more expensive than the cheapest regular fare if you book a month or two in advance and commit to a specific date and train ... . but be warned , the number of passholder tickets is controlled by a quota and people have turned up at the station on a Sunday to be told there are no passholder places available on any Eurostar departure until Wednesday , and if they wanted to travel immediately they 'd have to pay the full-price regular fare , a whopping # 170 for immediate departure ... . Alternatively , take a ferry to mainland Europe : If you prefer to travel by ferry rather than Eurostar , or if you find all the cheap Eurostar fares sold out , there are several cheap ferry options . Top tip : South Eastern Trains offer a # 33.90 day trip ticket from London to Calais covering both train and ferry , which is cheaper even for a one-way trip than a # 34 train ticket to Dover and a # 30 ferry ticket on to Calais So , assuming you do n't just end up buying a normal cheap Eurostar ticket , and you do n't decide on using the return half of a London-Calais day return by ferry If you did want to book , then the <URL> that you ca n't book pass holder fares online . Instead , your options are to book by phone on +44 ( 0 ) 1233 617 575 ( and I believe pay a fiver booking fee ) , or buy the ticket at a Eurostar terminal and hope that there are still some passholder fares left ( otherwise it 's going to get expensive ! )
If an airline is planning to open a new route , especially international routes , they will need a long list of approvals before they can operate that route . Usually this process is a bureaucratic process since it involves many organizations ( civil aviation authorities , airport authorities , etc. ) . Anyway , airlines usually have a green light to open the route before the paper work is done , hence they start advertising that route before they get the final approvals on paper . So generally speaking it is safe to book these flights , but just in case something goes wrong , the airline is notifying you in advance about that . Also , you will get a full refund in case things go wrong .
It varies depending on the airline . First , they may not be unsold right now . Just because a seat has n't been selected does n't mean a ticket has n't been bought . There are tools that can show you how many tickets have been sold in each fare class , and I have seen many times that all the business-class tickets are sold , yet only 20 or 30 % of the seats are marked occupied on seat maps . ( It 's pretty normal for economy to be oversold , too . ) Second , some airlines allow their frequent fliers to upgrade into business class , using some sort of certificates or points schemes . These upgrades may happen weeks or days in advance , or at the gate when the flight is about to leave . Third , some airlines allow anyone to buy a " last minute upgrade " - for about $ 100 for each hour of flight time , in my experience - when checking in online or at the gate . Finally , some airlines will upgrade some passengers ( chosen in theory according to status as a frequent flier , early check in , and fare class of original ticket , but at some airlines lazily chosen from among less deserving non status late checkins because it 's the easiest way to handle them ) for no charge . This is called an Operational Upgrade or Op Up . On a recent flight home from Seattle to Toronto I was op-upped for weight and balance reasons ( small plane , needed more people at the front ) which was a pleasant surprise . Some US airlines are well known for never sending out an empty business-class seat , moving up as many people as they can to fill business class . Other airlines , especially those based in the Middle East , believe if they do that , their frequent fliers would never buy business class , so they 'll fly out with empty seats up front rather than " devalue " the product by giving it away free unless they have an operational reason for doing so . My experience is that op-upping a frequent flier to free up a seat for someone who would otherwise be turned away ( overbooked flight ) does happen throughout the world , but that with the exception of US-based airlines , business class is quite often not full .
I was about to ask why you did n't just check the website , but ticket fares are surprisingly well-hidden and there 's no actual mention of age limits on the English site ( update below ) . So , let 's check <URL> , which has this to say about age limits on trains in Europe : Children travel at a reduced fare ... The age limit for children varies by country from under 12 to under 16 ( and in one case , under 17 ) , so see the list of child age limits below . ... although the child rate is n't always 50 % off the adult fare . It mentions several other things to watch out for , including the fact that adult fares are sometimes cheaper and that it can get tricky when you book international tickets . I highly suggest reading the entire page . Anyway , the site goes on to <URL> , so without further ado : Austria : Children under 6 free , 6-14 inclusive ( = under 15 ) pay the child fare . Since I could n't find anything on the English site , I did some digging on the original ÖBB site and found the official definition : Kinder sind Reisende zwischen 6 und 14 Jahre -- ab dem 6 . Geburtstag bis einen Tag vor dem 15 . Geburtstag . Handbuch Source : <URL> , A. 1.2.1.1 - Kind , gültig ab 01.01.2016 Loosely translated this confirms Seat61 : child fares apply from a child 's 6th birthday up to the day before its 15th birthday . Note that a variety of family offers are available and international tickets also have cheaper rates for those below 26 . Rates and reductions are listed in <URL> ( PDF )
The fare basis is the airline 's identifier of your exact air fare . This is usually an impenetrable looking 7-to-8 letter string like . The extended version of this is the fare construction , which adds in key details like what flight from where to where this air fare is for . The fare class is simply the first letter of the fare basis , which identifies <URL> and often maps directly to how many frequent flyer miles you 'll get for the flight . This is also known as booking class or , confusingly , ticket class . Finally , travel class is the class of the physical seat you end up in on the plane : first , business , premium economy , economy , etc. . An illustrated example of all four for the same ticket , from long to short : Fare construction : ( Cape Town on Turkish Airways transfer at Istanbul on Turkish Airways to New York City $ 406.06 for fare basis TA2PXOW ... ) Fare basis : Fare class : , <URL> Travel class : Economy
As of the information available on the Ride Metro site and on the list of approved retailers there are none in the airport itself . The closest retailers that sell the card would be <URL> on US 59 or Treaschwig Rd. . You can probably use the <URL> and the <URL> to see if there is anything closer but I have n't found anything nor there are any retailers in IAH 's zipcode ( 77032 ) .
This is a standard clause found on tourist visas for many countries . What it basically means is you can not legally seek employment within Australia or its territories or be employed by any entity in Australia and receive income from it . So checking your work email or working offline or even online for their employer outside Australia does n't violate the terms of their visa . But IMHO violates the term vacation .
Y is the universal designator for economy , the other fare classes tend to be discounted fares within economy . Without seeing the full copy it could be that you booked a ticket in H class which is in the economy cabin ( Y ) . Somewhere within your booking record there should be a " fare basis " listed , usually starting with a letter followed by 4 to 7 more numbers and letters . The first letter is normally the fare class . Another possibility is that you are booked in H class going one direction and Y class coming back ( assuming it is round trip ) or if the flight is 2 legs it could be two fare classes one for each leg . But the fare basis is the best way to determine .
From <URL> ( same article as <URL> ) : <URL> - <URL> ( <URL> ) flight number : LOG 313 , 2.7 km ( 1.7 miles ) 02 min , aircraft : <URL> , first flight - 3 February 2004 It is obvious from that list that the best option is try searching near the islands . Second place is for the <URL> ( from St. Kitts to Nevis ) . Update : <URL> ( with video ) ! Update by Rory Alsop : Flight by my father , Capt. Andy Alsop <URL> , and then reduced by him to 58 seconds ! Screenshot of the page linked above ( from <URL> ) , as it may not be viewable to everyone : You can fly this on a <URL>
I lived in London for four years . Perhaps I just did n't appreciate it , but I ca n't say I really was that aware of the class system on a day-to-day basis . Sure , you were aware that in Peckham in South London there tended to be a lower socio-economic ' category ' of people than say , Kensington . And yes in Mayfair there were the private members ' clubs and the like . And certainly the race day events tended to attract certain people . However , I , and others like myself who were there for a few years ( from NZ , Aus , South Africa , Canada and more ) did n't see it as a limiting factor . If we wanted to go to the races , we would , and just dress up for the occasion . Bond Street is just a place to shop , the prices are higher , is all . Nothing stopping you strolling along and having a look . It 's funny , every so often a comment would crop up about it . Someone at work would make a comment about not taking the bus because they were n't poor enough to need it ( or the tube ) . Yet , the current Mayor of London bikes to work , and the previous Mayor used to take the tube ( still does , last I checked ) . And most of us Kiwis or Aussies etc , whether from rich or poor backgrounds - we 'll take buses , tubes without hesitation - they 're quicker , convenient , and driving in London is awful . ' Class ' certainly did n't stop me getting into the Buckingham Palace garden tea party :) In general , the UK has become ( well , London , but other cities more and more as well ) so cosmopolitan and multicultural that in some facets of society , the class system has all but melted away . That 's not to say that some people do n't still hold it true and fast and insist on it and campaign against it when a fast food restaurant wants to open in Highbury ( it 'll lower their class somehow ? ) , but on the whole , most people you meet are welcoming no matter your background . As some people have said , in London - nobody 's a foreigner , because everyone 's a foreigner !
The work permit allows you to live and work in Canada , on a temporary basis . The requirements for such are on the <URL> online . Note the requirements are above and beyond having just the work permit - you need proof she is only visiting temporarily , for example . However , once you have a work permit , that works as a visa - you do n't need an additional tourist visa to enter the country .
It 's pretty much a non-issue nowadays . 911 and 112 are n't treated as phone numbers by mobile phones . That is to say , they 're not sent as number strings to be recognized by the central phone switch . Instead , the phone itself recognizes the number and initiates a special emergency call . The benefit of this method is that the call can be treated as a priority call immediately , so radio channels can be freed straight away .
No . At an unplanned refuelling stop , the crew will be focused exclusively on landing , getting fuel on board , and taking off again . There will not be disembarkation services , including no jet bridge , no ramp bus , no barriers set up to guide you to immigration , etc. . Unless there is a medical emergency , you 're not getting off the plane .
With very few exceptions , reconfirmation no longer exists . Historically , in the days of paper tickets ( remember those ? ) , reconfirmation existed as a way of both the airline and the passenger being able to confirm that the tickets were all correctly issued and paid for , thus reducing the chances of problems occurring with a passenger turning up at the airport for a flight when the airline had no record of them . With far more computerized systems , with e-tickets , and with airlines now having websites where you can check your booking the need for re-confirming your ticket has disappeared and no major airlines still require it . You may find some small regional carriers that still ask you to confirm your booking , but you 'll never see it on a major carrier .
It 's the two-letters code of the state . MO is Missouri . <URL> You can learn them with this <URL> or <URL> .
Here 's my take , which is n't actually based on anything empirical as much as about a decade living on the East Coast : If you 're along the Acela corridor , served by the Acela Express and the Northeast Regional lines , your best bet is probably the train . This is rooted by two experiences : Boston Logan is built out in what is essentially the Atlantic Ocean . It also has delays and closures at the drop of a hat . I hated flying out of Logan in the winter . During the massive snow emergency last year ( Winter 2010 ) in the Eastern U.S. , the trains kept running long after the airports shut down . One train I was on was indeed crowded with people from canceled airline flights trying to make it to their destinations , and it was so apparent that Amtrak actually ran a print ad campaign in some East Coast cities about it .
I agree it 's very annoying , as the main reason to purchase first class is a bit of extra space and some peace and quiet . Rule G 38 suggests you may be entitled to the fare difference between first and standard class , if one interprets " declassified " as meaning " no longer first class but just another standard class coach " . G. TRAIN ACCOMMODATION AND RESERVATIONS Travelling in standard class accommodation with a first class ticket If you have a first class ticket ( or the equivalent ) and the first class accommodation ( or the equivalent ) shown in the National Rail Timetable is not available in any train you travel in , you may claim a refund of the difference in price between the first class and the standard class ticket for the relevant part of your journey . <URL> This rule does not apply to season ticket holders . Virgin Trains also explicitly provides this guarantee , although disingenuously they suggest it is their idea : <URL>
end question
start question
Flying to Japan from Canada in mid-September , best time to buy ?
I found a decent ticket , 12 hours , direct from YVR to NRT , for $ 1200 CAD . Thinking I should snatch that up . $ 1,200 CAD should be considered a reasonable round-trip price from North America to Japan . Sometimes you see lower ( though rarely below $ 1000 ) , and sometimes much much higher . I would say that is around the average price these last few years , based on the flight price research I periodically do for myself or acquaintances making the trans-Pacific hop . I always hear different things . Early ? Late ? Certain time specific to the season ? You likely hear different things because there are very few universally applicable rules to flight-pricing , especially for trans-Pacific flights . Sometimes the best price is six months in advance , and sometimes it is a few weeks - it mostly all depends on that particular flight . I can say for sure that the most expensive time to fly to/from Japan is the New Year 's season , the first week of May ( Japan 's " Golden Week " ) , and the middle of August ( Japan 's " Obon " Festival of Lights ) . Scoring an average-price ticket during these times will be harder than most other times of the year . However , September is not an unusually busy season in Japan . 2 ) A friend may want to come with me by buying a ticket in 1 month from now . Does it sound like it should be OK ? I figure he probably ca n't get the seat beside me at that time , or maybe even the same plane One month in advance is pushing it a little bit , but it is not unheard of to find a reasonable ticket only one month in advance . I advise buying sooner if possible , and it is very unlikely that you 'll be on the same airplane ( or if you are , your friend would have to pay a lot of money ) .
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
You can buy the 4G SIM card in Telkomsel Grapari in Jakarta and Bali , read <URL> under " Terms and Conditions " . You can find the address list <URL> .
According to the <URL> , there is exit 2 with a staircase ( no elevators ) alighting on Place Bienvenue leading onto Avenue du Maine. : Accès Accès 1 : Porte Océane : accès direct dans la gare SNCF , escaliers et escalators Accès 2 : Place Bienvenüe : un escalier au 32 , avenue du Maine [ ... ] The exit can be seen on <URL> ( look for the yellow sign on top of the post ) . Assuming Google maps positioning is correct , <URL> .
Getting back to my own question . I was successfully able to take the 23kg luggage on the domestic flight as well . I had to collect my baggage at mumbai for custom related checks and again had to checkin at Jet Airways counter , but there was no problems at all and without any additional costs .
Not sure where you 've been reading that , but I can assure you they 're quite wrong , <URL> sells every make of cheap electronics , so Chinese no-name brands and outright ripoffs are legion . Back in the day when iPhones were the new hotness and were n't officially available in Singapore yet , I remember seeing a plethora of " jPhones " , " iFones " , " iPhons " etc , all thinly disguised Windows or Linux . Some dealers are n't above selling you the real thing and slipping a clone in the bag instead , although the Tourist Board is cracking down on this pretty hard . The general rule of thumb for exploring SLS is that the higher up and deeper down you go , the more esoteric the fare on offer . To generalize , the ground floor is mercenary camera dealers and is best avoided , while the first floor is mostly mainstream audio gear , but the second floor up is all IT . The " inner ring " stores facing the atrium are fairly mainstream ( laptops etc ) , but the windowless " outer ring " stores behind them sell components , used gear , etc. . The <URL> is a good place to start hunting , most shops have their own websites . <URL> is also an excellent forum for more info .
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
The Train looks to be quite a good bet to me . It looks like Kingston is on the main Montreal-Toronto line , for which <URL> . I just asked <URL> for details for a random weekday in about a fortnight 's time . There are 10 trains per day , a web special advanced purchase tickets start at $ 56 ( but are mostly sold out for 2 weeks time , so book early ! ) . Normal tickets are $ 65 - $ 89 , depending on how far in advance you book and how much flexibility you need . Oh , and if you do take the train , try to sit on the left hand side as you head towards Toronto - you get some stunning views out across the rivers and lakes from that side !
You 'll be fine . While all Etihad flights to the US <URL> , it can be <URL> at Beijing . Alternatively , to speed up things a bit , she can likely log into Etihad 's site to manage her flight and enter the information there .
As pointed out by @mkennedy , Canada Post has a service called International Reply Coupon , which , as per their web-site , appears to be a one-size-fits-all that 's valid in 191 countries ( except for Taiwan ) , bearing a cost of 6,00 CAD . <URL> However , the problem comes from the fact that , as its name suggests , it 's not an actual stamp , but rather a coupon , which must be redeemed for a local stamp at a local post office in the country from which the reply mailing is to be made . ( The usage procedure is actually even documented as such right on their web-site . ) The above would go in contradiction with the requirement of having a " pre-paid envelope " -- after all , instead of attaching said coupon , it might as well be easier to provide a two 1 USD bills ( see cost below ) , which , after all , can surely be be exchanged for adequate postage with more ease than having to deal with some sort of coupon most people have never heard of , and which appears to specifically require a visit to the Post Office . As per <URL> , it generally costs only a couple of times more to post letters internationally than domestically . As of 2015-05-09 , one domestic first-class USPS stamp with a denomination value of FOREVER costs 0,49 USD ( the FOREVER stamps will correspondingly and automatically increase in value if the price to post goes up ) , and such one stamp is sufficient for posting any small letter from any state to any other state . As per <URL> , it currently costs 1,15 USD to mail a letter at or below 57 grams ( 2 ounces ) from US to Canada , thus three such stamps at 1,47 USD should be sufficient to post internationally . As such , the easiest solution would be to buy and affix three FOREVER stamps to the reply envelope , either within Canada , or before making a trip there . Additionally , it seems like USPS also has the specifically designated GLOBAL FOREVER USPS stamps , too , which are currently valued at exactly 1,15 USD , and will always be sufficient for international postage .
I usually plan my trips with Google Maps . Put both address and click on the public transportation . In your case : <URL> This is a 2 hour travel time for 27 miles and about US$ 5.00 price ( two fares if you get bus and train ) . Notice that you can get the train from the airport parking directly instead of picking up a bus first . You may think about US$ 74.00 for a taxi from this site : <URL>
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
I would say it is likely possible but it is fairly short . As you say you will need to leave the secure area of the airport , collect your luggage and go through luggage drop off , passport control and security . Waiting for your luggage should not take too much time , but 10 minutes is the least to expect . Most of the time non of the lines on the way in will be long , but three times 10 minutes will eat up most of your time . And it is not unlikely there are more delays when things go wrong . Add the walking times , and you are almost out of time without any delays . EasyJet can be late , they do not promise to get you there on the minute , just to get you there . With the later flight out of Schiphol , a delay of a few hours will not be a problem , but with the early flight a 30 minute delay can be too much . I would go for the later flight , 6 hours in Schiphol is not too bad . If it is more than 6 hours you might consider going out of the airport if your incomming flight is on time . I guess KLM city hopper will not allow you to change to a later flight without paying costs if the EasyJet flight is late . If the tickets are cheap you could buy a ticket for both the early and a later flight .
We can not give you a definitive answer here , it totally depends on her situation and the best person who can give such an advice is her doctor . If she is a person who has a history of a sudden health problems related to hypertension or any other sickness , it is best to pay a visit to a doctor to assess her overall health situation before flying . Anyway , let 's assume that she is in a stable situation and she has her meds with her , then there is nothing to worry about . 2.5 hrs is a short flying time and I am not aware of any negative sides of flying on people with hypertension . I see them flying all the time and I know that because of the number of low sodium meals on each flight ( cabin crew member here ) . One more thing , do not forget to make a special order of a low sodium meal in case the flight has some sort of a meal service . Finally , each flight has a Doctor Kit , which can be opened by any doctor onboard in case of health emergencies . The kit has various medicines for common health problems that require immediate intervention , including allergies , diabetes , heart attacks and hypertension . Hopefully no one needs that .
The Red MAX takes 44 minutes from Pioneer Square to the airport . Source : <URL> . So that 's 1.5 hrs . Security wait times you can predict from <URL> . Let 's put that to 20 minutes . Actually you need to get off the plane and get out . I 'd put that to another 20-30 minutes . We are at the 2.5 hrs mark . You need to wait for the Max , walk in the airport , your layover is a bit shorter because you need to be there by boarding and not leaving . So , you can make it to Moonstruck on Alder street , have a decent hot chocolate and then go back . Sightseeing , not so much . I certainly would rather than sitting at the airport . Moonstruck hot chocolate is one of the better ones on this coast , you need to go as far as Vancouver , BC to have better . ( Or if you have broader horizons , Eataly in New York is best . )
The only airline with regular scheduled flights to the Faroe Islands is <URL> , the flag carrier . There are daily flights to/from Copenhagen and less frequently to/from Keflavik , Bergen and Billund . However , they are probably already fully booked for the days near the eclipse ... Your best bet may be to find a dedicated eclipse tour with a chartered flight .
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
Many airlines will send out periodic mailings detailing points promotions and/or discounted/special fares . There is - of course - no guarantee that the flight you want will come up on sale , but every now and then you 'll also get coupon codes for double miles , 10 % off , etc. , which can also be very helpful . To opt into these mailings , check your online profile settings for your miles program ( s ) . ( for example , to opt into American Airlines mailings , log into your account at <URL> , click on " My Account " at the top , and then click on the " Email and Fare Alerts " tab on the following page )
<URL> , it 's 54 days in advance . At least in 2013 it was . Quoting the article , [ They ] monitored 4,191,533 trips . For each trip -- that is , a flight from city A to city B on a specific date with a specific trip length -- we looked at prospective fares over about a 10 1/2 month booking window , ranging from 320 days in advance , to 1 day in advance , including every possible booking date in between . It adds up to a database of 1.3 billion air fares -- and a serious headache for those who were tasked with making sense of it !
end question
start question
Are malls open in Washington DC and nearby areas during the holidays ?
The shopping malls in and around DC ( and everywhere else stateside ) will be in full swing starting 26 December to about close of play on 31 December . This would include <URL> , and if you do not arrive early you can expect to have to use <URL> . Shops at Tysons will be open from 10AM to 9:30 PM , 1000 to 2130 . You will also be able to take ice skating lessons at the rink and on 27 December you will have a chance to meet the <URL> . Barnes and Noble will also have special events throughout the week .
This is one of the rare occasions where taking a train might actually be a good mode of transportation . Having lived in Indianapolis for close to 10 years and having gone through the new airport I can tell you that getting through it will be a breeze . Nontheless . <URL> might be one of the few routes where it might be worth taking just for the views starting in Kentucky and going all the way through the Appalachia . The worst of the views you would probably sleep through , if you can given stops at best every hour . If you are taking the train from <URL> I do n't think that it would be of any advantage to you given that most of the traveling time would be during the night and Chicago to South Bend , IN is n't really pretty for most of that stretch .
Yes I have heard from authorities of Shremetyevo airport that this airport remain open in night time and seems very pleasant during night also and you can enjoy your stay there . But I have no experience staying there .
After living in the USA for over 10 years , I moved to Europe . I did consider bringing my car from the USA to Europe , however later rejected that idea . Yet in the process I did look into various options . There are several shipping companies that will ship vehicles across the Atlantic , usually inside containers on a ship , but for the right price they 'll do air shipments too . Once the vehicle is in Europe , the same rules apply as for any other vehicles registered outside the country : you must re-register it in your the country of residence within a predefined period of time ( usually 1 year , but it varies by country ) , do required adjustments if necessary ( e.g. rules on turn signals being yellow/amber vs. allowed red colour in the USA ) , etc. . The most important one is that the vehicle is not allowed to remain within the country for over that predefined period without leaving the country or being re-registered there . Usually , it 's the diplomatic staff that bring their cars over from USA to Europe , as the department of foreign affairs ( read - taxpayers ) is paying for moving all their stuff across . However anybody can do it , really . So , the simple answer is - there are shipping companies that will do this for you . The cost is usually in the area of about $ 2000 for a simple car and growing for something bigger or more expensive ( because of higher insurance premiums ) . In addition to that , vehicles registered to US army will have plates of the home base location - and these vehicles would have also been shipped to Europe , but paid for by the Army ( read - taxpayers again ) .
There is an article regarding this subject in <URL> . The basic reason is safety in case of a crash or other impact : Seat in the upright position is locked and does n't present an issue if there is an impact During the <URL> back in 1988 it was found that bracing in the upright position is safer then in reclined . Reclined seats make it more difficult to evacuate passengers from rows immediately following you . So during the most dangerous times in flight ( take-off and landing ) it is required from you be a little safety minded .
I 'd suggest taking a look at the website of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau , which has a <URL> . It lists a number of places ( mostly museums , some galleries ) that have late openings . The page is unfortunately organized by place rather than by what your options are on a particular day of the week , but the " fact sheet " for every place does clearly list " late opening " on the " prices and times " section . Here are a few suggestions taken from that page , but organized by day of the week ( non-exhaustive list ) : Monday : Musée Jacquemart-André ( until 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . Tuesday : Jeu de Paume Paris ( until 9pm ) . Wednesday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) . Thursday : Musée des Arts et Métiers ( until 9.30 pm ) , Musée d'Orsay ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Friday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Saturday : Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) , Musée Jacquemart-André ( 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . There 's also the Palais de Tokyo which is open every day , except Tuesday , until midnight ; and the Musée de l'Érotisme is open every day until 2am . Obviously these times can change , so do check the original " fact sheet " . For most places it also lists until what time before closing time the ticket offices stay open , which would be useful to know . ( Thanks for reopening this question ; the above is a slightly extended version of the <URL> ) .
DM was open at Berlin Südkreuz , 25th December Opening hours was : 13:00 - 18:00 It is also open today and all holiday days , in case anyone needs it .
Delhi is a Modern Indian city with a population of about 15 million people . If you have been to Delhi , you must have noticed the amount of traffic in the city . Even though it is true that cows are worshiped in Hindu Mythology , they are an inconvenience for the flow of traffic . Over time they have been moved away from Delhi and now you wo n't find them on most roads . If you go into the village sections of Delhi , you will still find them in many households but this practice is also decreasing due to unavailability of grazing land . 15 years ago , Delhi had much more cows than now . Agra is a relatively older city which is much less developed . It is not only smaller than Delhi but it more traditional that it . There is a good availability of grazing lands near Agra so you will still find many cows on the street even though they are an inconvenience to traffic . Official removal efforts were also made in Delhi in order to prevent Cows and Buffalo within the city center . Conscious efforts by citizens were also made in order to prevent deaths of Cows . Traffic usually waits when cows are crossing roads as a mark of respect but every once in a while some lunatic crashes into one . It 's simply a step into modernization and reducing inconveniences to both kinds of species . Everything else apart , I was born and brought up in Delhi and have visited Agra several times as well . I truly cherish both cities and find that each has its own beauty . Hope this helps !
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
I traveled all the way through the USA from the east coast to the west coast , by car and RV . I thought about getting a UMTS / LTE stick for my Notebook , too . But there really was n't any need for this . You can get FREE WIFI almost everywhere : Coffee Shops ( Starbucks , etc. ) Fast food Restaurants ( Pizza Hut , McDonalds , KFC , etc. ) Camp grounds Hotels Shops / Malls Libraries In rare cases you get WIFI access even here : Cinemas Grocery Stores Gas Stations I can also tell you , that the UMTS internet coverage is n't that good when you plan to visit national parks or other nature reserves . Whilst driving through the less populated middle of the USA there are times when you even do n't get your cell phone working -- > NO Service ! So if you really feel the need for uninterupted internet access , you should carefully check the coverage of your Mobile-ISP
I doubt it will change much , driving will still be faster . Based on a <URL> , we find out that it currently takes up to 7 hours by car , while it takes 9 hours by train , through Austria . The Gotthard tunnel is located in Switzerland , and while its goal is to <URL> , there is no fast train route between Munich and Zurich . What is interesting to notice is that on the map , by drawing a straight line between Munich and Genoa , it does not go through Switzerland ( or only along its eastern border ) . So going by train through the Gotthard tunnel will likely not help . If we still try to estimate the time it takes between the two cities with the estimate given in the first article , going between Munich and Zurich currently takes at least 3h40 according to the <URL> in a bus ( ! ) , then say 2h40 to Milano , and finally with the Google Maps search we found that the train between Milano and Genoa takes 1h45 . By adding up all of them , we still find 8 hours . In the end , even if somehow the Deutsche Bahn or the SBB decided to run a train all the way from Munich to Milano/Genoa , the total time it takes will probably not beat the driving time . So unfortunately there will be no change in the hierarchy of faster transportation , driving will still be faster .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
From Wikitravel 's <URL> : Rome has excellent shopping opportunites of all kinds - clothing and jewellery ( it has been nominated as a top fashion capital ) to art and antiques . You also get some big department stores , outlets and shopping centres , notably in the suburbs and outskirts . Main shopping areas include Via del Corso , Via Condotti , and the surrounding streets . The finest designer stores are around Via Condotti , whilst Via del Corso has more affordable clothing , and Via Cola di Rienzo , and the surroundings of Via del Tritone , Campo de'Fiori , and Pantheon are the places to go for cheaper items . Upim is a good shop for cheap clothing of workable quality . Some brands ( like Miss Sixty and Furla ) are excellent , some are not as good - be sure to feel garments and try them on . There are also great quality shoes and leather bags at prices that compare well with the UK and US . But when shopping for clothes note that bigger sizes than a UK size 16/US 12 are n't always easy to find . Children 's clothing can be expensive with basic vests ( tank tops ) costing as much as $ 21 in non-designer shops . If you really need to buy clothers for kids try the Oviesse chain . Summer sales in many stores begin around July 15th and Rome also has New Year sales . As mentioned above , Via Condotti is Rome 's top haute couture fashion street ( equivalent of Fifth Avenue in New York City , Via Montenapoleone in Milan , or Bond Street in London ) . Here , you can find big brand names such as Gucci , Armani , Dior , Valentino and Hermès , and several other high-class shops . However , the streets around the Via Condotti , such as Via Frattina , Via del Babuino , Via Borgognona and the Piazza di Spagna also offer some excellent high fashion boutiques , including Roberto Cavalli , Dolce &amp; Gabbana , Versace , Prada and Givenchy ( and several others ) . So once in the city , the big boutique names are n't absent . In these luxurious streets , however , you neede n't only do clothing shopping - there are some really good and funky jewellery ( e.g. Bulgari , Cartier , Tiffany 's &amp; Co. ) , pen and accessory ( i.e. Mont Blanc ) and artsy stores peppered here and there in these streets . If you want to spend a day in a large shopping mall , there 's the Euroma2 with about 230 shops ( mainly clothes and accessories ) and restaurants , to be found near the EUR district . Take Metro B line from Termini to EUR Palasport station , cross the road and take the frequent free bus ( ride takes 5-15 minutes ) to the mall . In addition to many shops and food , the conditioned air and free toilets may be a welcome relief if you are in Rome during mid-summer . La Rinascente , Rome 's first department store , having been opened in 1887 , is also a good retail department store , selling fashion , design , houseware and beauty products . If you like Abercrombie &amp; Fitch or Hollister , you have an Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Italia store in the Via Collatina . There are lots of fake plastic ' Louis Vuitton ' bags being sold at the side of the road . Be aware , that buying of fake products is illegal in Italy . Fines up to $ 1000 have been reported . If you are happy to take the risk , make sure you haggle ; unsuspecting tourists pay up to $ 60 for them . If you want to buy souvenirs or gifts , a museum would be the worst choice since there are many stalls along the streets of touristic areas that offer reasonable prices . It is likely that the same item in the gift shop of any museum will cost much more . Factory outlets <URL> , near Rome , along the Via Pontina highway . A very large Factory Outlet with more than 100 branded shops . A car is needed to reach the place but a 30 % discount in a designer shop is surely worth the 20km trip . <URL> . A little further away from Rome than Castel Romano , you can find Valmontone outlet on the motorway towards Napoli just 50 Km far from Rome . Valmontone itself is a delightful little town - 30 mins by train .
A Swiss online resource I know is <URL> . It lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland that are worth a visit . I quickly checked it , and all I know of are on the list . Unfortunately the list is in German , but at least some of the further links are also available in English . If you 're looking for an English resource I would recommend <URL> . It also lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland and also here I could found all spas I know . I personally can recommend <URL> . It is a little bit out of the way , but it is really beautiful and also from an architectural point of view worth a visit .
In case of emergency ( which is more likely during take offs and landings ) people should be prepared just in case . So during daytime , opening window shades and putting cabin lights to full makes the eyes used to sunlight so if something goes wrong and passengers need to be evacuated there will not be sudden change in light contrast which might lead to temporary blurred vision . Same thing at night flights , window shades are open and cabin lights are dimmed .
Only the March 29th and the April 1st are bank holidays in Spain . Between them there is a weekend that may be affected . Also the March 28th is bank holiday in some regions . There are not less transports in buses and trains , really there are more than a normal day , but there is more people trying to take it . In my experience , you should book your long distance transport one week before or you will have problems these days ( and maybe the 3-4 days previous and the 3-4 days next ) . Anyway , Andalucia will be the most affected region . About the Morocco ferries , the same applies . You can check the timetables and <URL> .
Well , you have nailed it pretty well because Saarland is the smallest non-city state in Germany and there are not many lakes . Bostalsee in 66625 Nohfelden . Very nice lake with several smaller lakes in vicinity . Stausee Losheim in 66679 Losheim am See . River quality has improved so much that bathing and swimming should be no problem , even in the Saar . Bathing in rivers is <URL> , but there are exceptions : Forbidden is bathing in vicinity ( less than 100 m ) of a construction : a bridge , a weir or a lock . Also forbidden ( trespassing ) is bathing if you enter private ground or use a private road . While very beautiful , bathing in nature reserves ( Naturschutzgebiet ) is forbidden . Look for this signs because the roads are often free : Be careful that you choose locations with weak currents and no high banks . Look out for river traffic because shipping is used extensively in Germany .
To bring this question to an answered state , I have a good friend in Malta who lives in Valletta and has a vacation flat in Birzebbugia . I put the question to her exactly as you asked it . Presumably by ' city ' and ' harbour ' you mean Valletta . You can not rely upon walking through the city to find vacant rooms . You may luck out or may not , but in Valletta the odds are against you . In the other cities you may need a working knowledge of Maltese to read the signs outside the smaller B&amp;B type of lodging opportunities . On the plus side , if one proprietor takes you in , then you are pretty well set for the rest of Malta with their referrals .
<URL> for a third party web site to accept an ESTA application from you and submit it on your behalf . However , <URL> you would be charged at the official page . You may also have visited <URL> , and there is no good way to determine in advance if the site will really submit the application for you or not . It 's best , then , to always go to the <URL> to apply or update your information . Note that virtually all U.S. government web sites have a domain ending in . Of course , it is illegal under US law for a site to take your money and not submit the ESTA application . CBP recommends that , if this has happened to you , that you dispute the charges with your bank or credit card issuer .
At least in Bulgaria -- hardly . July and August , and sometimes early September are traditionally reserved for summer holidays , but people rarely are away for more than a few weeks . Businesses continue to function as usual -- industry , banks , institutions , etc. , even with reduced productivity , and of course all tourist attractions are in full swing . The last year it was possible to find hotels and accommodation in Bulgaria on short notice , but I 'm a native , so things might be different from your perspective . I 'd avoid the end of July and beginning of August ( most people tend to go to a vacation then , and it 's also the hottest ) , and recommend going for a late August/early September trip . Basically all of the resorts will still be working , the weather is not so hot and the crowds are noticeably sparser . The prices could also be somewhat lower . Your mileage may vary for other countries , though .
end question
start question
Where is the exact end of the speed limit zone for California roads/highways ?
Speed limits are in effect until otherwise posted or noted . So once you enter a 55 MPH zone it stays that way until you see a sign raising it back up to 65 MPH . Unfortunately not every road is properly sign posted , so it is best to assume you are still in the lower speed limit zone until you actually see a sign telling you otherwise . Often in an inner city area , all roads will abide by the lower speed limit noted when entering the city limits , but not all will have speed limit signs . Some speed zones are named , such as a school zone or safety zone . These reduced speed areas will often only have an " end of school zone " type sign and not a speed limit sign . Here it is presumed that you can return to the previous speed limit you were under when you pass the " End of ... " sign . Unfortunately for visitors to an area , speed limits are not always posted on every road , so one needs to pay attention to the signs you do see and their relationship to civilization , two lane roads in housing areas , neighborhoods often have the lowest speeds 25-35 , two lane roads in business areas a bit higher 35-45 , four lane roads in the city 50/55 , outside the city 65/70 . And to compound the issue , each city sets it 's speed limits a bit differently :(
Which Embera Community ? I believe there are several Embera communities ( including but not limited to Embera Drua ( Upper Chagres ) , Embera Puru and Arimae ) , and hence various different places one can be picked up along the Chagres on the way to the village . Hence this question is kind of on the broadish side according to TSE 's regulations . Nevertheless I understand that finding information on the topic is quite challenging , and I assume that for the purpose of your question any information to privately reach any village will do . So here we go . Visit Embera Drua <URL> explains how to visit the <URL> . It suggests contacting the village to arrange a private visit . More importantly , it mentions a rendez-vous point on the lake , which I assume is Lake Alajuela , at Puerto El Corotu . This might be the place you are looking for . As it turns out , the <URL> , with information on how to visit , and detailed instructions on how to reach Puerto El Corotu . Quoting from the website ( emphasis mine ) : Driving Directions from Panama City Take the Transístmica Highway to the community of Cabima . Or , to arrive quickly ( and bypass city congestion ) , you can choose to take the Corredor Norte to the " Colon / Las Cumbres " exit , where you will end up again on the Transístmica . Then , continue north toward Colon on the Transístmica Highway for 6.8 kilometers to La Cabima . There , you will see a Super 99 grocery store , Mr. Precio and a Pío-Pío restaurant in a small shopping center on the right . Turn right after the shopping center and pedestrian bypass . Immediately after turning , follow the road as it curves slightly to the left . Continue for 6.5 kilometers until you reach the Bayano Cement Factory ( Cemento Bayano ) . Turn left at the factory 's sign marked " Cemento Bayano . " Continue on for 8 kilometers until you reach a green and yellow one-story building on your left . This is the Panama National Environmental Agency ( ANAM ) station in Chagres National Park . Pull in and register as a park visitor and pay a small entrance fee ( $ 1 per person for Panamanians , $ 3 for others ) . Exiting the station , turn left back onto the road . Follow this road to the lake . This is the port of Corotú . Welcome ! You can park your car at the port securely . There is a police presence overseeing the port all day . Moreover , the website mentions the possibility of helping you arrange transport to Puerto el Corotu . Below are the contact details : Google Maps Meeting Point Curiously enough , <URL> which could also be interesting to you . It 's difficult to say if this is Puerto El Corotu , or even if it is for charter boats alone , or which community will be picking you up here . Nevertheless it 's still a valid clue in my opinion .
As you said , sporting events are usually your best bet for a guaranteed National Anthem . While they ( usually ) are n't free , if you 're not picky about your sport , there 's probably more than a few that you can get for relatively cheap . Soccer ( football ) is in mid-season right now so tickets probably are n't that expensive and I know that there 're at least two teams in the area ( <URL> and <URL> ) . You can also check out minor league baseball , but that will be over by the end of September . Preseason tickets for any sport are also usually cheap . I noticed that the <URL> and <URL> will be playing that week . Basketball does n't start until October . Major League Baseball can be very hit or miss as far as ticket prices go at that time of year . There are almost aways some very cheap tickets available if you 're willing to sit in bad seats , but that 's up to you . Beyond the professional ranks , you can always check out some younger teams . For instance , a high school football game will also play the National Anthem before the game . That 's starting to get pretty far down the list of places you probably want to end up just to hear something you can get on your phone for less than $ 1 .
For UK based routes ( this is where I think you are , judging by your profile ) you can use <URL> . It 's also available as an app on most phone platforms ( Apple , Android , Windows Phone ) . Input your start and end points then when you get a route select the " Quietest Route " tab . That should give you either cycle paths or quieter roads .
According to <URL> the bus terminal is called " Terminal Rodoviario de Valparaíso " and the Google Maps insert calls it " Copropietarios Terminal Rodoviarío de Valparaíso " . <URL> calls it " Ag.Terminal Valparaiso " . It seems the correct address is Av . Pedro Montt 2831 , Valparaiso , Región de Valparaíso Which looks to be right next to Google Map 's entry for <URL> ( though they list the address as Pedro Montt 2860 ) . Either address should be close enough . I 've submitted an update to Google Maps for the correct address .
There is only one location that checks all your boxes , and no others come close : Istanbul . The west part of the city ( its historical center ) is considered to be in Europe , the part on the eastern side of the Bosphorus strait is in Asia . There is a bridge that you can drive over , the city is extremely scenic with many beautiful mosques and the Hagia Sophia , and it does n't get much more historically significant ; it was the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire , of Byzantium , and of the Ottoman Empire . Other than that , the border between Europe and Asia is ill-defined and although the concept of the border is of historical significance , there wo n't be much of a historically significant or even visible physical border on the ground . The usual convention is that the border runs along the Caucasus and Ural mountain ranges , mostly in Russia , but I do n't think you 'll find nice marked crossing points there . Some people opine that Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus is also on the border , but according to <URL> it 's actually north of the Caucasus watershed that is usually used as the border . It 's Europe 's highest mountain at 5642m , relatively easy to climb and some scientists have actually managed to get to the summit with a Land Rover ( see the article ) , but I do n't think it qualifies ... Edit : actually it is apparently wrong to say that the border is invisible elsewhere -- in the Urals there seem to be some monuments marking it , see e.g. <URL> , which has pictures of a few of them west of Yekaterinburg .
I 'm sure there is another one nearer to your destination , but at least in <URL> , there is a sign for sure . I pictured it personally last summer . <URL> I found a German page that has picture the same road sign as I did :
Here are 2 sample companies organizing these trips as a group tour : <URL> <URL> There are several different places to see , such as the DMZ with its fences , some tunnels and the border crossings of course . Because of the many different combination of locations that you can see in a half-day or full-day course , the prices also vary a lot , between 40-100 USD . If you want to have something more personalized , you can also <URL> , but of course the price will be in a different dimension ( up to 500 USD/person , less if there are more people ) . There is also the option of being <URL> instead of a professional guide . The price of 450 USD for a 8 hour is for a whole group . If you read the descriptions , you will see that some of them involve hiking , some are very short and others take a whole day . So I would suggest you decide how much time you want to spend and how much money to make a selection .
The way I see this , you will need a Schengen visa in any case and therefore need to apply for one either from Spain or the Netherlands following the usual rules . The fact that you are also going to Bulgaria does not change that and Bulgaria obviously is n't the country where you are staying the longest within the Schengen area . And once you have a Schengen visa , I do n't see any point in getting a Bulgarian one as well ( provided you satisfy all relevant rules as far as Bulgaria is concerned -- I assume this could mean staying less than X days , not working , having sufficient means , documentation of your return trip , etc. ) . On the other hand , IANAL and I never went to Bulgaria on a Schengen visa so I have no personal experience to report .
Sevilla should be very nice , and you can organize a trip to Cordoba and/or Granada if you wish . Note that if you want to see Alhambra in Granada you should really book tickets over Internet more than a month before travel .
Fortunately from the <URL> there 's already snow base , and they 're making snow too . In addition , it 's at altitude , so there 's an added advantage for colder temperatures . However the start of the season is always weather dependent , and there it 's usually mid/late November . So it all depends on which runs you want to do , and luck , and how late you can leave your trip . Best you can do is keep an eye on the snow report and weather on <URL> and keep any eye on the webcams as well . Their lift page should also start to indicate which runs are open as they get enough of a base . You can also check out the <URL> and note the snowfall for that time of year . Check out weather sites too and see if there 's snow falling on the long rage forecasts . It should give you a decent idea . Finally you can check on instagram or flickr or other photo sharing sites when it opens . If people are taking GPS-tagged photos , you can get an idea of the view from their shots and how beautiful different runs might be .
I 've done a tour of the Salt flats in January 2010 which is the summer down there and even then it got cold at night because it is pretty high up - 3,656 meters ( 11,995 ft ) . I did a tour with a local operator as everybody else did , there are dozens of 4x4s out there every day . The accommodation was indeed very basic , especially on the second night . We started in Uyuni and went south , the first night you stay in a small village but the second night is in the middle of nowhere with just a few basic buildings for tourists to spend the night . I 've been inside some of the other buildings but they all looked pretty much the same . You could mention your concerns to your tour operator and ask for the best accommodation there is , but I do n't think there is much choice . It 's not a place where you wonder around and ask for a room , it seems all pre-arranged . I do remember taking some sort of shower and I think it was at least a bit warm . But I do n't remember a fireplace or heating . There were basic beds with blankets and I do n't think I was cold , ( maybe all the wine helped ) but I can imagine it to be very cold in the winter . Several people in our building had severe problems with altitude sickness and going down was no option , so make sure you take some time before going up there . So , just do n't expect any luxury up there and bring warm clothes .
It 's likely to be about 10C at overnight . It might be a little cooler before dawn .
From <URL> : This is a non-operating park . There are no activities or facilities at this park . If you look at other parks on the site , you will see that if there were any hiking trails , they would be listed under " activities " . It seems clear that there are no trails .
I was there last year , and I remember connecting to internet in a café . The internet was really ok ; nothing to complain about . Moreover , in general in Vietnam the internet connection is good . Some places censor Facebook though
Basically the center is around the " <URL> " . On this square you will find the <URL> , <URL> and a <URL> . Plenty of pubs etc. can be found at the " <URL> " , just next to the Grote Markt . There are accommodations in that area or not far from there . If you arrive by train , you can also consider to stay next to the station . Thus you wo n't have to carry your luggage very far . The station is only a 10-15 minutes walk from the main watering holes . <URL> , you will see a yellow circle road . In a larger sense , everything inside this circle could be called the " center " . It is the historical city of Leuven . Crossing this circle by foot takes more or less 20-30 minutes .
As Ilmari commented , the <URL> by " <URL> " is very good . It even mentions my favorite bar , Pub Magneetti . I like his other recommendations too : <URL> &amp; somewhat hippie atmosphere at Alppipuisto ; public sauna in Kallio ; berry-picking ) . Some more ideas below . Many of these may not be " only in Helsinki " things , but stuff I love about this place anyway . ( I 've lived in Helsinki for almost 14 years . ) The sea and nature spots are never far even in central Helsinki ; for me a big part of the spirit is related to that . On a warm summer day , head to Suomenlinna for a picnic <URL> . It 's truly a unique place for this , and a <URL> too . Buy some strawberries from the Market Square before boarding the <URL> . Maybe hit the supermarket on the main island for some food , beers or ciders . ( What locals do anyway . ) When leaving , please take your trash with you . :-) Photo : <URL> , Wikimedia Commons Go to Hietsu ( Hietaniemi ) , the most famous sandy beach in Helsinki , a walking distance from centre <URL> . The beach itself ( or the cool water ) may not impress you much , but on hot days it 's a really lively place with a mostly youthful crowd . Besides sunbathing , you could join some of the many groups playing beach volley . ... Or if it 's Sunday , come to the park very close to Hietsu at Hesperiankatu &amp; Mechelininkatu <URL> to play ultimate frisbee with local &amp; visiting couchsurfers , starting 3pm . Then , continue to Töölönlahti : at the amphitheatre behind the National Opera <URL> , there 's a ( free ) salsa party on summer Sundays starting 6pm . Whether you dance or just hang around , the atmosphere is lovely . Salsa at the Opera . Photo by me . On the opposite side of Töölönlahti , overlooking the bay , there are some lovely old villas . Go to Café Sininen huvila ( " blue villa " ) to have a coffee and read a book perhaps . <URL> Besides Hietsu , good places for swimming and spending a summer day are the city 's two public open-air pools : the <URL> <URL> and <URL> <URL> ( admission 3.60 $ ) . To me , these places feel somehow " traditionally Finnish " , in a good way . There 's a sauna too , of course . The one in Kumpula is farther from centre , but located in a charming residential area with wooden houses . ( Only downside is that it can get too crowded sometimes . ) Climb to the rocks in Vallila <URL> to watch the sunset and views over the beautiful old wooden buildings of this working-class neighborhood turned hip . ( Combine this with visiting Pub Magneetti at Mäkelänkatu 20 . ) Or for a sunset in more bourgeois environs , try Munkkiniemi on the western side of Helsinki peninsula , just where tram 4 terminates <URL> . There 's a lovely ( and expensive ) <URL> with a terrace there , or you can just hang around on the seashore . Sunset at Munkkiniemi , August 2012 . Photo by me . For a proper nature retreat , you could do like the NYT blogger and head to Sipoonkorpi , but it would be somewhat easier to reach Uutela nature park in eastern Helsinki by the sea ( take the metro to Vuosaari , then walk ) <URL> . Nuuksio in Espoo is also great for this though a little farther away <URL> . If it 's your cup of tea , getting drunk -- and getting to know locals in the process -- is obviously one of the most popular ways to feel the spirit of Helsinki . Tour the ( relatively ) cheap bars in Kallio , for example , and head to city centre for later-night action . If it 's Thursday , go to " Kalle " ( <URL> ) which for some reason is packed ( only ) that day ( go before 10pm to avoid a long queue ) . ( Alcohol is generally expensive in bars/clubs ; what Finns commonly do is pre-drink at a house party or a park or something . ) Follow the events organised by <URL> collective . All kinds of urban culture , parties , bike trips , artsy events . Really fun stuff . ( Find someone to decipher the Finnish for you . ) NB : almost all of the above is quite summer-specific . But then Helsinki is at its best in summer and that 's when most tourists come here . In winter , you could try <URL> at Rautatientori , the square next to central railway station ( admission 5 $ + skate rental 5 $ ) . ( I 'll edit this later if I forgot something . )
According to this image atleast : <URL> if you look into the other room <URL> you can even see a a macbook beeing charged .
I 'd stop in Albury then Goulburn both about 3.5 hours drive and on the Hume Highway . I 've visited both and Albury has some nice parks and if you 're onto big things Goulburn has the Big Merino . *
In August most roads should be open . The condition of any given road can never be guaranteed though . You should consult the website of the <URL> for up to date information about what roads are closed . If you click on the <URL> you 'll see the current state . Most roads are open by now , but its been a cold summer so not quite all of them are open . By the end of August there may be some closures ( most likely due to them being washed out ) but most should remain open . If you are unsure , you can ( while in Iceland ) call 1777 for up-to-date information . Do not try to drive on a closed road . If in doubt , call for information . It is astonishing the number of tourists who ignore road-closed signs and get themselves into serious trouble . You do not need a 4x4 on " normal " roads . If you plan to stay on the primary roads you can get by fine without one . However , you should not go on any roads marked in red on <URL> if you are not driving a 4x4 with good ground clearance . Note that you can drive on regular roads all the way to Vatnajökull , the largest glacier in Europe . Just follow the ring road ( route 1 ) along the southern coast . Ca n't miss it . It is about 4-5 hour drive from Reykjavik , assuming no stops . And there are plenty of interesting places to stop along the way .
end question
start question
Patagonia by bike : where to find accommodations info ?
Before I answer you Before I answer your question , please read this advise as <URL> and I can tell you this : The roads are not that easy , sometimes given the roads surface it was challenging doing 50 km in a day ; When the roads were alright , then the <URL> . When the wind blows strongly in the Argentinian side and the Southern you get the stronger is gets to the point were it is <URL> to even walk ( check pictures from the South Patagonia , trees grows horizontally ) . So you can have the sunny but windy Argentinian side , or the rainy ( heavy !! ) Chilean one . Sometimes the weather was so bad , that we had to take a rest day ; Argentinian and Chilean sucks at mapping or road signs . Both do not match in terms of how far is the next town , and sometimes even both are incorrect ! Locals only know distances in " hours by car " , not very helpful ( at least it seems that there are finally now Google Maps of Chile and Argentina , that did not exists before , so I do not know how good they are ) ; Finally , the important questions when you do Patagonia by bicycle ( or any other means ) is not where is the next accomodation , not at all . It is where can I " refuel " next ? For a car , it is the tank station . For a cyclist , it is food and mostly water ! You will need water for cooking , for drinking , and sometimes other purposes . And water can be scarce on the Argentinian side . So get a water filter , and ask fellow travellers cycling South to North where is the next water refuel point . However , the effort is well worth what you will experience ! It is a beautiful country , extremely beautiful , people are extremely nice and helpful . And here is the catch : if you plan on doing 100km/day , then either you are superman ( and there are a few , but I 'm not ! ) or you 'll get disillusioned ! But even if you 're superman ( who knows ) , what a pity to manage to fight so hard against bad road , bad weather , broken parts , a combination of all thoses , etc. and not having the time to enjoy the landscape because you need to rush on and continue ! One last piece of advice ( if again you 're not superman ) , take a rest day from time to time ( e.g. once a week ) you will need it for various reasons : Your body ca n't follow your mind and you 're completely tired and used ; You will need to wash your clothes or <URL> you did not think of , it can take a big part of a day ; It is nice to enjoy every 1000km a nice restaurant ; when do you plan on taking on the views ? Most of the time , the best views are not from the most direct North-to-South route , but one the side tracks . The answer When I left for Patagonia , I took a guide book with me ( e.g. Lonelyplanet , Footprint , etc. ) in case I need to find accommodation . But you do n't need to really . First of all and most of the time you will be camping among sheep or lamas . And second and last of all , when you get to a " city " it is small enough to get through most camping/guest houses/hotels in a short time to find where you want to sleep . There are n't that much choices and usually they are well indicated/advertised . And when all of the above does not work , open the guide book and you will find an answer . It does not require battery nor to have a network reachable :-) But as I said before , accommodation should not be a question , you should not care . Take great care of your bike , of the replacement part you 're going to take with you , of the tooling to maintain and repair your bike , on good clothes and camping gears , be ready to carry food for 7 days and water for 2-3 days ( worse cases ) . Be ready to do wild camping for 7 days in a row . Conclusion Do it ! Cycling Patagonia is extremely rewarding ! But do n't take it light ! Accommodation is a no problem , <URL> . Getting food and water is , you need to plan each time you have an opportunity to refuel . Superman can probably cycle from Bariloche to Ushuaia in 3 weeks and will be able to enjoy , visit , take on the views . We mere mortals could potentially do it also in 3 weeks , but then what for ? Do a shorter trip , or take longer vacation . If you are a good sport person , then you will probably be able to easily do 60-70km / day in Patagonia , but even if you are that sportive , take a rest day every 7 days ( or less ) . Your body will thank you for it .
While the answer from a Parisian is probably ' all over ' or ' my local patisserie ' , for those among us who are n't locals , <URL> ( 72 Rue Bonaparte , 75006 Paris , France ) is probably a good place to start . However , they tend to use it as part of other desserts , like their <URL> : Dacquoise biscuit with crunchy hazelnuts , hazelnut crisp , thin wafers of milk chocolate , milk chocolate ganache and milk chocolate chantilly . There 's a website , Parispatiserries , which <URL> : And that Dacquoise itself was really the highlight for me . Not only was the internal texture of it moist and slightly spongy , but it had a beautiful sweetness and surface texture that Mr. Tongue found thoroughly amusing . As an alternative , though , if you wish to focus on it just as a dessert , <URL> ( 25 , rue Jussieu , Paris , France ( Panthéon ) ) also serves it . <URL> and ranks it # 245 of 13,636 Restaurants in Paris .
You can still travel by cargo ship between China and Thailand , but it is limited to 2 foreigners per ship and takes some 24 hours , as they go slow and anchor for the night along the way . This method is basically catch as catch can . The captains wait until they have a decent load then sail . So it is not something you can book in advance or check availability for . I do n't think the faster boat has resumed the service , that was stopped after the two crews were killed on Chinese freighters a few years back . This was run by Mekong Delta Travel in Chiang Rai and last I heard all their boats were still offered for charter service only . Note : my information sources are people in the travel industry , not easily found on the web .
Apart from the regular travel search , DB also features a <URL> ( rough translation : cheap price finder ) . You will need to use the out-of-country one that I linked ( hopefully the link does n't die ) , select Sweden as the country and Stockholm as the station . It features four options from Saarbrücken to Stockholm ranging from $ 139 to $ 169 if you do n't have a BahnCard ( and are 31 ; I randomly put in an age because it asks you to and I did n't want to risk youth prices ) . If you can , you really should book a single through ticket . If you do , then it 's not your fault if you miss any train due to delays . No matter how you do it , there is going to be a night connection somewhere . Since German railways do not see themselves as competent enough to offer night trains with sleeper cars , you are either restricted to a night in a sitting train or one at a station ( one connection I can see has you wait 3:50 h in Neumünster -- not exactly my definition of a successful night ;) ) . Of course , you can always break your journey into two , but you ca n't book that via the Sparpreisfinder directly . However , if you set your eyes on a specific part in Denmark/Sweden , you can go back to the usual journey planner and select a stay of however long at a German station of your desire . You will still be able to book a through ticket . The connections I got : Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 15:47 , arrives in Mannheim at 17:13 ( RE 4114 ) ICE ; leaves Mannheim at 18:00 , arrives in Hamburg at 22:54 ( ICE 572 ) InterCity ( operated by DSB ) ; leaves Hamburg at 23:42 , arrives in Copenhagen at 06:56 ( IC 231 ; this is a typical Danish intercity train set ) X2000 ; leaves Copenhagen at 08:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 13:39 ( X2 530 ; <URL> ) Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 16:46 , arrives in Mannheim at 18:18 ( RE 4116 ) ICE ; leaves Mannheim at 18:29 , arrives in Kassel-Wilhelmshöhe at 20:41 ( ICE 274 ) ICE ; leaves Kassel at 21:36 , arrives in Hamburg at 00:36 ( ICE 782 ) Regional train , leaves Hamburg at 00:45 , arrives in Neumünster at 01:41 ( RE 21140 ) A night at Neumünster station Regional train , leaves Neumünster at 05:30 , arrives in Flensburg at 06:46 ( RE 21050 ) InterCity , leaves Flensburg at 06:50 , arrives in Fredericia at 08:10 ( IC 5721 ) Lyntog , leaves Fredericia at 08:22 , arrives in Copenhagen at 10:41 ( LYN 51018 ) X2000 , leaves Copenhagen at 11:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 16:39 ( X2 536 ) Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 21:47 , arrives in Mannheim at 23:35 ( RE 4126 ) InterCity ; leaves Mannheim at 02:15 , arrives in Hamburg at 09:05 ( IC 60478 ; I suspect that this is also a night train , but the Sparpreisfinder can not find sleeping cars or whatever ) ICE ; leaves Hamburg at 09:28 , arrives in Copenhagen at 14:22 ( ICE 33 ; crosses the Fehmarn belt by ferry ) X2000 ; leaves Copenhagen at 15:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 20:39 ( X2 544 ) All this was plugging a random day . You see that you get two general routes : Northwards to Hamburg and then either across the Danish mainland to Copenhagen or across the Fehmarn belt . The last leg is identical .
There are many resources you can look at . You can probably start with official tourist guides for the states such as <URL> or <URL> , but if not you can probably <URL> or use <URL> , which has some of the many rodeos listed state by state .
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
There are currently three main <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Wikipedia provides a pretty good <URL> to save you having to check each alliance 's website in turn . Have a look through that and see which one you 've mostly been hitting . Also , be aware that carriers sometimes enter , leave or change alliances . This tends not to happen too often , but it does occur ( just see the former and future members section on the wikipedia page for an idea ) , so you ca n't be certain that an airline ( especially a smaller one ) will always be in the alliance it 's in today . Finally , be aware that you often have a fairly short period of time to register flights with a frequent traveller program after flying , usually a few months . Unless you 've flown very recently , you may find that not all of your flights can be credited when you join a program .
On kayak.com , once you 've searched for a flight , look down the left hand side of the search results . There 's a ' take off time " for your flight , and just below that , a link for " Show landing times " . Click that , and now you can filter your flights by arrival times .
There is a <URL> which gives street address and map locations for many of their stops .
Try these in search engine in google : inurl : tripadvisor.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " inurl : booking.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " Add more keywords to place a specific country , etc. .
Firstly , where are you going ? You want to visit the one country or some number of them ? You should note , that there is no such thing like Schengen visa . You can only get visa to the country in Schengen . So , first of all , you must select the one country you will be most time in . Note that different countries have their own requirements to the tourists . And since you 're in Schengen , you can easily travel between countries in it without any problems . According to your question , there are a lot of types of the documents showing that you intend to return to your country of origin : If you have a good job , simply get the receipt from your bank account showing that you are not going to search the job in Schengen . If you have family , get some documents about that - there are much more chances that you will return to your home for your family . If you have any immovables , provide documents about it . Ask for a list in the embassy of the country you have chosen - there can be some more documents that count as guarantee for you to return home .
You 're not specifying where you are going . If known , it would make giving you pointers much easier . Also , two months for helping out as a software engineer is awfully short ; by the time you can start getting something done , it 's time to move on . That said , here are two websites you might want to check out ( spam filter prevents me from posting more ) : OneWorld ( " global justice online " , " where the good guys gang up " , " OneWorld brings the latest jobs and volunteer positions from organisations working to create a better world . " ) Their site has a section titled " Ethical Jobs " with a subsection titled <URL> . idealist.org lets you search for <URL> under " What Are You Looking For ? " . For two more , search for devnetjobs and ( vacatureblad dot org ) .
A list of all the customs and import fees is available on the <URL> along with explanations , forms etc. . And <URL> is their guide for customs for tourists , including student visas ( In Hebrew ) . The guide specifies exactly what is exempt from fees , food is exempt for up to a total of 3 kg , as long as each kind of food does n't exceed 1 kg . The list of fees is available <URL> ( In Hebrew ) . Specifically for your question , the fees on " mixed food up to 15 kg " ( מזון מעורב עד 15 ק " ג ) are : 17 % for goods worth 75 $ -500 $ 17 % + 2.93 ILS for each kg for goods worth 500 $ -1000 $ " according to the imported item " for goods worth more than 1000 $ . * - 17 % is the VAT is Israel .
State of the road The road from Banyuwangi to Sempol is awesome . The road is like new . There is tarmac all way to the entrance of the Kawa Ijen ( national ? ) parc , there are very few potholes on the road ( if any ) . The reason for this , is that there is now a bicycle race called <URL> , running every year since 2012 ( or 2013 ? ) so the road must be able to welcome racing bicycle ! Riding during the day Extremely easy . Just take your time and you will reach the entrance of the parc in about 1h30min . Enjoy the ride , it 's a nice one , the road is great and the country side beautiful . Riding during the night Completely doable , it will just take a bit longer than if you do it during the day . You will also miss the view , but you 'll have it on the way back I suppose . I did this partly at night ( the last third of the journey ) , and the only thing is that it gets pretty cold ! It gets quite high , so cold too , make sure you bring some quality clothing ( thermal clothes , and a jacket ) . Renting a scooter in Banyuwangi Extremely easy . Just contact one of the local motorbike renting companies and get yourself ready to go . I got in touch with one called <URL> , I booked the scooter while in the train to Banyuwangi and it took 5 minutes to sort the paperwork when I came to their office . Was perfect . Here are their details : Tripoli Tour and Travel , Jalan Basuki Rahmat No. 77 , Banyuwangi , Jawa Timur 68414 , Indonesia , <URL>
I use <URL> to plan my itineraries . The website is a bit more clumsy than Google Maps , but the itineraries and ancillary information are of a better quality . In ViaMichelin you also get maps . An overview maps of the whole trip as well as detailed maps for the different steps . These are the same maps as the Michelin maps you would buy on paper . Compared to Google , it is easier to zoom in and to print a given area . The more difficult part is related to printing . It is hard to fit a whole trip on an A4 page . Even for a smaller trip , such as e.g. Brussels - Frankfurt/Main ( + - 400km ) it is hard to obtain a map that is still useable and readable . Moreover , if you take into consideration the price of colour ink or toner , apparently free maps come at a cost . When it comes to long distance travel , my personal conclusion is that there are no ( free ) online resources , which might be able to compete with traditional maps and atlases . If you do not want to spend too much money on maps and atlases , you can do the following . There are road atlases covering Europe or parts of it . These are updated every year . When the updates are available or about to come out , the " older " ones are sold with huge discounts . These atlases are not " dernier cri " anymore , but remain very accurate and reliable . But , before a trip , you can always cross-check with ViaMichelin or alike . Things are different if you are interested in local information . You can have destinaiton specific resources such as <URL> in the United Kingdom . As suggested in the comments , you might also be able to find free online maps made available by local tourist offices .
Fortunately there 's a website for this ! <URL> visually shows you the most light polluted areas . Naturally it tends to be around cities . The area along roads east of Chech ' on and Andong look to be your best bets , that I can see , but a bit of panning around the areas you 're visiting , you may have a chance . A car is likely going to be required to get to some of these , though . The Odae mountains between Chuncheon and Gangneung also look promising .
State of the road The road from Probolinggo to Bromo is fine . Locals in Cemoro Lawang do ride scooters to move around the area . It 's just like any regular country side ride in Indonesia . Riding in the day No problem at all , just do it :) The ride takes around 1.5 h Riding in the night Probably doable , just drive more slowly . I have not done it myself but I do n't see any reason why this can not be done . Do bring a lot of warm clothes though , it gets cold at night , and even more when going up &amp; reaching Cemoro Lawang . Warning : renting motorbike in Probolinggo in 2015 is very hard See this question <URL>
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
After about 30 minutes of searching , I 've finally tracked it down ! Possibly someone in the NC government needs to spend some time on the <URL> ;-) The official details are available on <URL> and are : 2 litres de vins tranquilles ET 1 litre de boisson titrant plus de 22 ° OU 2 litres de boissons titrant 22 ° ou moins Which in English is either : 2 litres of still wine and 1 litre of spirits of more than 22 % or 2 litres of spirits of 22 % or less
<URL> - all bus stations , times and schedules on one website . Also includes ferries . <URL> - timetables and listings of all ferries within Croatia , and to all the various islands as well . Trains in Croatia do usually NOT require reservations , except for IC Zagreb - Rijeka/Osijek/Cakovec , and ICN Zagreb to Split . The fees are about a Euro when made locally . The official site is <URL> , however it 's in the local language and may be difficult at first to navigate - however , you can jump straight to the <URL> .
end question
start question
How does the US know that I left ?
Yes , they almost certainly do know you 've left . The US processes passport details for all air passengers through a system called <URL> , and ties that to the electronic I-94 ( arrival and departure record ) . You can <URL> . This allows you to verify their record of your departure .
In the US hotels I stay in , room service dining typically includes a service charge and delivery charge with wording such as : All Room Service Orders are Subject to State and Local Taxes , a Delivery Charge of $ 3.50 , and a Service Charge of 22 % . The Service Charge Includes Gratuity . Being the USA , there will normally be an extra space for yet another tip . Feel free to draw a line through it .
At the entrance of a carpool lane , a sign always indicates how many people are required in each vehicle to be eligible , since situations sometimes vary . The sign can say " CARPOOL ONLY - 2 OR MORE PERSONS PER VEHICLE " In Los Angeles area , nearly all carpool lanes have a minimum of 2 passengers . I only have seen one case in which three passengers were required . At the time of my visit in 2009 , the freeway heading east of Union Station to El Monte had passenger requirements that depended on the time and day of week . In normal hours , 2 passengers were enough ; in weekday posted rush hour times , the requirement was 3 passengers . Be careful in the area : now , there is a new system called <URL> running on I-10 and I-110 freeways . The concept is that people not eligible to enter the lane may buy their way in by paying a congestion-priced toll , instead of getting a fine . Toll collection happens electronically , and uses a compulsory transponder . Legitimate carpoolers who used to simply drive through the lane are now required to have the transponder on ExpressLanes , even if no toll is charged for them . The transponder has a switch to indicate the number of occupants . Other freeways still have the " classic " carpool lanes .
Yes , they almost certainly do know you 've left . The US processes passport details for all air passengers through a system called <URL> , and ties that to the electronic I-94 ( arrival and departure record ) . You can <URL> . This allows you to verify their record of your departure .
Your source is confirmed by the <URL> : Voedsel dat men kan meenemen naar de V.S : ... Kaas ( alleen vacuum verpakt en gepasteuriseerd ; geen kazen gemaakt van rauwe melk ) . De meeste Nederlandse kazen zoals Goudse , Edammer en Leerdammer zijn toegestaan . Translation : Foods that one can take to the US : ... Cheese ( only vacuum sealed , no raw milk cheeses ) . Most Dutch cheeses such as Gouda , Edammer and Leerdammer are allowed . The most relevant restriction would be " vacuum sealed " . An Edammer cheese is small enough to be sold whole , and would be unlikely to be vacuum sealed . Gouda on the other hand is typically produced as a large wheel , and a wedge is often vacuum sealed .
I am curious , though , if a US citizen could potentially * be prosecuted upon returning home for " breaking US laws while on foreign soil " . Yes . The U.S. maintains embargoes against <URL> . Many of these include travel restrictions . The U.S. government generally <URL> that U.S. citizens are liable for taxes , regardless of where they live . Many countries have tax treaties with the U.S. that in some cases reduces or eliminates this burden , but in general , if you are a U.S. citizen and you make enough money in a foreign country , the U.S. government will expect you to pay U.S. taxes . ( Here 's a Wall Street Journal blog entry on the subject : " <URL> " ) It is against U.S. law ( the <URL> ) to bribe foreign officials . I would also guess that the U.S. sometimes has jurisdiction in foreign countries . Obvious examples would be military bases and embassies , but perhaps also in matters pertaining to U.S.-registered ships and aircraft ( ?? ) . References <URL>
AA reserve seats in coach for their frequent flyers . They provide most , but not necessarily all of these for payment if the passenger does not qualify by status . These are the preferential seats such as aisle seats near to the front , main cabin extra seats or exit row seats . All the seats available for free are no longer available and you must pay if you wish to select a seat . If you do not wish to pay for a seat , AA will start providing these seats for free as the flight approaches , or at the gate , including the MCE seats with extra legroom . It 's unlikely that you will be sat next to your partner however . If the flight ends up oversold , AA is required to seek volunteers for voluntary denied boarding ( VDB ) compensation prior to selecting passengers for involuntary denied boarding ( IDB ) . These passengers will be compensated too . The answer to your question is the risk you will not have a seat is low if you do n't pay now . Make sure you check in as soon as possible as that is one of the selection criteria for IDB .
Cell phones run on two different types of networks : GSM and CDMA . These network types themselves are subdivided into various bands ( e.g. GSM 850 MHz ) . Most recent phones will support a wide range of bands within one network type . GSM is predominant in most countries except the US , which uses both . To verify that your current phone will work in another country , you first need to find out which bands your phone works on . This will be listed on the technical specifications , which you may be able to find online ( if you ca n't , try calling your carrier ) . You 'll then need to check which bands are used by carriers in the country you 're going to . Wikipedia is good for this -- for example , <URL> . Data basically works the same way , although it is a bit more complicated . Basically , there are a number of different network technologies : HSDPA , HSUPA , HSPA , HSPA + , LTE ( I 'm not sure how complete this list is ) . The best way to do this is to check Wikipedia and work backwards ( if their network supports , say , 1800 MHz LTE , you 'll want to check if your phone does ) . In addition , if your phone has not been unlocked , you will be forced to keep using your current SIM . This seems to be what you 're planning to do , but I just want to emphasize that switching to a local SIM will not work , so if your carrier is willing to unlock your phone , do get that done . The other thing to make sure to do is check with your carrier is that you do have international roaming enabled . If not , your phone basically wo n't work outside of the US , and it 's a lot easier to get that enabled before you travel instead of trying to dial your carrier from abroad .
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
There 's a <URL> on Skeptics-SE : The accepted answer gave two examples of people being deported for lying on their forms , including one who did n't mention her history with the SS when she applied for a visa in 1959 , and the DoJ caught up with her in 2004 and deported her .
The only requirement is that the boarding pass must be " same day " , so there is no real limit as to when you will be allowed through security as long as it 's the same day as the departure . The only exception to this would be a flight leaving shortly after midnight in which case you will be allowed through security the day before , although in this case it 's possible you would be given some additional scrutiny by the TSA if you were to attempt to pass through security too far in advance .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
The southern shore is shallower than the northern shore and the shallow water warms up quicker so the water is warmer there . The shallow water is also great for families with small children , but it 's not too great if you want to swim . Sometimes you have to walk too much before the water is deep enough for swimming .
Depending on the flight routing , air crews do have the ability to communicate with the airline offices during the flight . Most likely in this case , the fact that a special meal cart was improperly stocked was relayed to the operations office , either during flight or upon landing . A caring staff member who received that communique probably made a note in your booking record . And a thoughtful flight attendant who saw the note came to express an apology . Passenger manifests are constantly updated right up until the door closes . And they contain quite a few tidbits about the passengers for the flight attendants reference . So it is quite easy for your issue to have been noted before the flight left .
You are asked those things for ( as far as I can tell ) two reasons . One is to simply observe your demeanor . The idea is that someone who is concealing something will give conflicting , vague , or over-detailed answers to simple questions . The other is to seek real information that can be used to distinguish smugglers from travelers . For example , I once had the following conversation with the Border lady : " How long was your trip ? " " 10 days . " " Where did you go ? " " The Golden Triangle : northern Thailand and eastern Burma . " " Did you travel alone . " " Yes . " " Did you meet anyone while you were traveling ? " " Sure , dozens of people . " Needless to say , everything I was carrying was examined minutely . I did n't know you could disassemble a Bic pen . Do you have to answer ? No , you can decline to answer if you 're a US citizen , but think about it . In general , you should be extremely reluctant to answer any questions about your own activities from law enforcement . You might think you have done nothing wrong , but do you have the US Code committed to memory ? They say the average American commits <URL> ; you do n't want to accidentally confess to yours . But if you go through a border-check , they are going to ask you questions . They are n't trying to incriminate innocent people ; they are trying to sort out the smugglers . If you do n't answer , they have to throw you on the maybe-smuggler category and go through all your belongings . So my advice : If you have done anything on your journey that might jam you up with the Feds ( visited Cuba , traded with a sanctioned country ) but your luggage is squeaky clean , decline to answer questions and let them rummage through your underwear . If you were a naughty boy and you are bringing back a few grams of fond memories , smile politely and say , " I just lay on the beach for two weeks . " Otherwise , answer the questions politely , accurately , and concisely .
A business visa ( type C visa ) allows you to enter a country temporarily to conduct business there , such as buying stuff , meeting with collaborators etc. . Business visa are usually valid for 90 days , like tourist visas , and they do not allow residence . Whether you actually need to apply to the <URL> to obtain a business visa <URL> . A work visa ( type D visa ) allows you to stay in the country for more than 90 days to conduct business . See also <URL> for the difference between the two visas , and for links to the respective applications .
Yes , a single visa either B1 or B2 can be issued , but often they are combined . According to the official <URL> : Often , the B-1 and B-2 visas are combined and issued as one visa : the B-1 / B-2 . Now , the proof that single B1 or B2 visas are issued in some cases is the official statistics found on <URL> : As the table shows , they are issued separately but in small numbers . Why they are issued separately in some cases I have no idea and I could not find any information related to this in any official or non-official references . My guess is this totally depends on the interviewer at the consulate/embassy .
BC Ferries posts a <URL> for major routes based on historical data . The information is very limited , though . For example , for Tsawwassen ( mainland ) → Swartz Bay ( Victoria ) , expected busy departures over the next two weeks are : Thursday 2015-07-30 : 11am to 8pm Friday 2015-07-31 : 11am to 9pm Saturday 2015-08-01 : 9am to 3pm Sunday 2015-08-02 : not too busy Monday 2015-08-03 ( BC Day holiday ) : noon to 6pm Tuesday 2015-08-04 : 10am to 6pm Whether that means you should make a reservation or not depends on your own risk tolerance .
As @Jonik said , you can skip verification , make some friends locally in Dominican Republic , get some references , and everything will be ok . But if you want to verify yourself , I think , you should <URL> , especially <URL> . CS said : Due to the number of postcards we mail out , we can not vary our processes , and we almost have it fully automated , with very little human interaction . This is a good thing , since we have a very small , dedicated volunteer team that assists with verification issues . So you really must contact some human to solve your problem . Other way is to contact <URL> , meet them in off-line and get some information from them . Good luck .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
end question
start question
How to get from JFK to Brooklyn NY 11217 , USA by public transport ?
Fastest <URL> to Jamaica Station ( $ 5 , ~ 15 min ) Inbound <URL> service to <URL> ( $ 6.25 , ~ 20 min ) Cheapest <URL> to Howard Beach Station ( $ 5 , ~ 15 min ) <URL> ( NYC Subway ) to Hoyt-Schermerhorn Station ( $ 2.25 , ~ 30 min ) Well , that 's not entirely true . The truly cheapest options are to take the B15 bus and transfer to another bus somewhere in east Brooklyn , or to take the Q10 bus to Lefferts Blvd-Ozone Park Station and take the A Train from there to Hoy-Schermerhorn . Either ride would be $ 2.25 for the whole trip with a MetroCard . These are a much , much longer routes ( up to two hours ) through some very , very boring areas , and I would not advise a visitor , who has limited time , to bother with them . If you want to play with some options yourself , try the <URL> . I 'm not familiar with the MTA pass options , but you can save money by buying multi-trip MetroCards . MTA has a handy <URL> based on the number of rides .
Yes there are . There are several bus lines that I could find online though I could only find 1 that provides cross border routes : <URL> If you look at their schedule you will find that they have a bus from <URL> and a connecting bus from Punta Arenas to Puerto Natales though I ca n't find the trip duration so it is possible that you may have to spend the night at Puerto Natales .
Coaches in Cuba - Astro and Viazul There are two main coach companies providing island-wide transport in Cuba : AstroBus and <URL> . Astro caters mostly to Cuban residents and intrepid travellers . Most of the seats are available for purchase only to residents with a valid ID , and just a few are available for foreigners albeit at higher rates . Overall its fares , quoted in local currency , are cheaper and , although recently upgraded , its fleet of coaches offer slightly less comfort with respect to its competition . Viazul bus fares , quoted in , are slightly more expensive , in exchange for an air-conditioned ( sometimes too much ) coach with washrooms and televisions . <URL> , these coaches are more reliable than Astro , cover most of the interesting tourist destinations , and adhere to a pre-established timetable ( i.e. buses try to be on time as often as possible ) . <URL> : Víazul is Cuba 's hard currency bus line and is by far the best choice of public transportation to tour the island . They run comfortable air-conditioned long-distance coaches with washrooms and televisions to most places of interest to tourists . The buses are getting a bit grubby , but they are reliable and punctual . Complete schedules can be found on the Viazul website ( the Varadero - Santa Clara - Cienfuegos - Trinidad and return service is missing from the website but runs daily ) . The buses can be used theoretically by anyone , including Cubans , but in reality , few Cubans can afford the convertable peso fares . Reservations can be made in advance , but are usually unnecessary except at peak travel times . Do not waste your time making an on-line reservation on the website -- that feature rarely works . Refreshments are not served , despite what the website says , but the buses stop for meal breaks at highway restaurants with bad food . ( Bring your own food ! ) The buses are often over air conditioned , so bring along something warm to wear . Note that most westbound buses from Santiago de Cuba run overnight . Trains There is a train network in Cuba which covers most of the island . Below is a map of the Cuban rail network , <URL> : However , according to various sources on the web , it 's organisation and reliability are a matter of opinion . <URL> : The main train line in the country runs between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , with major stops at Santa Clara and Camagüey . Trains also run to other cities such as Cienfuegos , Manzanillo , Morón , Sancti Spiritus , and Pinar del Rio . There is one reliable train in Cuba : the overnight Tren Francès between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , which runs on alternate days . It uses equipment that was formerly operated on the Trans-Europe Express , and donated to Cuba by France a few years ago ( hence the name ) . There are first class and special first class seats on this train ( the special seats are better and more expensive ) , but no sleepers . If only one train in Cuba is running , this will be it . All other trains in Cuba are unreliable . The equipment is often in poor condition , breakdowns are common , and when they occur , you can be stuck for the better part of the day ( or night ) waiting for a replacement engine . There are no services on the trains , so bring plenty of food and water with you . Trains are frequently cancelled . Some trains offer first class seats ( do n't expect too much ) ; others have second class seats , which can be very uncomfortable . Schedules are at best optimistic and should always be checked in advance of travel . There are no sleepers on overnight routes . If you are still thinking of taking a train , other than the Tren Francès , you should know that many Cubans prefer to hitchhike than take the train . If you are still determined to take a train , approximate schedules are given under the different city descriptions . Foreginers must pay much higher fares ( which is still very cheap ) than the locals . Tickets are roughly two-thirds what Viazul charges . Theft is a problem so watch your luggage ! Hitch-hiking Hitch-hiking is a valid alternative form of transportation which is widely used in Cuba by both locals and tourists , and hence is surprisingly well organised . Indeed there are dedicated , manned , pick-up points for hitch-hikers . These Yellow Points ( Punto Amarillo ) are found both inside the city , on the outskirts , and on certain highway routes . Tell the man-in-yellow your destination and he will hail a vehicle for you . Once he finds you a ride , you pay the man , which is a government official , and contribute to the Cuban economy whilst getting a ride to your next destination . Note that you 'll need to chew some Spanish language to use this service efficiently - you want to make sure the man-in-yellow understands your destination correctly . <URL> : The Cuban government 's system for facilitating hitchhiking is by far the most economical way for foreigners to travel in Cuba , though a flexible schedule and good Spanish are a must . Known as " El Amarillo " ( " the yellow guy " ) for the yellowy-bei
There is , as of now , no general solution for any places , particularly since public transport data is not always freely available , <URL> . For places where public transport data is available , there are sites that let you do draw areas of what you can visit . <URL> has a decent number of cities from all over the world . Note that it may not have access to the complete public transport data ( see e.g. @Gagravarr 's comment ) . <URL> works for Germany , Switzerland , and Austria only , and is able to provide overlays of points of interest . It " knows " all public transport stops in these countries , as far as I can tell , and is thus quite reliable .
With the help of the very handy <URL> , it turns out it can be done just fine ! Currently , there are no trains serving the Sunshine Coast ( though a <URL> ) . Instead , you need to take a <URL> from Roma Street Station or Central Station , and then change at somewhere like Woombye for the bus to the coast . The train takes about 2 hours from Brisbane , then it 's about another 45 minutes on the bus to Mooloolaba . There 's roughly one train an hour , and the last southbound train leaves Nambour just after 8pm on a weekday . So , it is possible to leave Brisbane in the morning , spend the afternoon on the Sunshine Coast , then head back in the evening , all by public transport . Oh , and just to note , sometimes off-peak the " train " between Nambour and Caboolture is actually a <URL> due to a lack of track capacity , which is a little bit slower .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
The metro link to the airport is newly opened ( Monday 3rd November 2014 ) See official <URL> for details and map . So you will need to take a tram from the Airport to Trafford Bar and change for a tram for one stop to Old Trafford . <URL>
Buses seem to be quite reliable in terms of schedule in Colombia . There are plenty of departures and they usually go faster than the predicted time . I took several buses , usually in the evening and always arrived 30min to 1h ahead of schedule . The quoted time could be to account for traffic at other hours . For longer distances , there are overnight buses but guidebooks do not recommend them due to safety concerns . I have no experience to confirm or deny that . Finding schedules for Colombian buses is not so easy though , see m <URL> which covers the norther Altantic coast . For the highlights , see <URL> and <URL> . Some of these routes are overnight or even more .
You can find complete information on the LIRR and subway at <URL> . Generally , the LIRR is faster , more comfortable , and more expensive . The LIRR takes 20 minutes from Jamaica to Penn Station . It is a commuter train with regular coach cars ; there is a seat for every passenger and overhead racks for small bags . The regular adult fare is $ 9.50 during peak times ( M-F from about 6-10 AM in this direction ) , $ 7.00 at other times on weekdays ; It 's $ 4.00 on Saturday and Sunday . The trains run at fixed times and you can find a timetable <URL> . The E train takes about 40-45 minutes to Penn Station . ( Note that Airtrain access is via the Sutphin Blvd stop , not Jamaica Center . ) Cars have limited seating and no luggage racks ; there is a fair chance that you will have to stand with your luggage for the whole trip . The regular adult fare is $ 2.50 at any time of day . The trains run frequently but do n't have a fixed schedule . You will need to buy 2-3 separate tickets for the different legs of this journey : To ride Airtrain from JFK to the LIRR or E train , the fare is $ 5 , paid with a <URL> . You can get a Metrocard at a vending machine ; there should be some on the Airtrain platforms or inside the airport . Cash and credit cards are accepted . There is a $ 1.00 surcharge for the Metrocard itself , or if you already have one , you can just add money to it . More information about Airtrain can be found <URL> and <URL> . If you take the subway , the fare is also paid with a Metrocard . If you take the LIRR , you should buy a ticket from a vending machine on the LIRR platform before boarding , which will accept cash or credit cards . If you do n't , you can also buy a ticket from the conductor on the train , but there is a surcharge of about $ 6 and only cash is accepted . When you get to Penn Station , you 'll need to buy another ticket for <URL> , preferably from a vending machine ( cash or credit ) . ( There is also a staffed ticket window , and you can also buy from the conductor on the train , but again there is a surcharge . ) The regular adult fare to Newark Airport is $ 12.50 . You use the same ticket to ride the EWR Airtrain monorail from the Newark Airport station to the airport terminal itself , so do not lose it . Note that the subway , LIRR and NJ Transit platforms are all in different parts of Penn Station , so allow yourself some extra time to navigate your connection there . You might be able to squeeze in an hour or so to look around NYC . I would suggest that when you get to Penn Station , you check the schedule of departing trains ( you want either the Northeast Corridor or North Jersey Coast lines ) , choose a train that will get you to EWR with as much time as you want ( I 'd allow 30-40 minutes from Penn Station to EWR 's terminal ) , and then see how much time you have in between .
Mt. Pleasant is a small town of fewer than 9,000 residents in a rural county ; there is no municipal mass transportation available . I do see listings for two or three taxi companies ( A2z and Barnes , and sometimes others ) , so you might call ahead to see if they will have cars waiting for the train . Mt. Pleasant is the nearest Amtrak station to Iowa City , home to the huge University of Iowa , but Iowa City taxis may not be interested ( or licensed ) to give you a ride locally within Henry County .
Possible , yes . Feasible , only barely . Yarra Valley is fundamentally car country and not having your own wheels handicaps you pretty badly ; you can use the buses to get to the towns , but the whole point of visiting Yarra ( for most visitors , anyway ) is to tour the wineries , most of which are nowhere near a bus stop . There is , however , one good way to both use public transport and get your own wheels : rent a bike ! The fabulous <URL> starts from train terminus Lilydale , where you can rent a bike , and continues for 39 kilometers across the valley to Warburton , passing lots of wineries along the way , some directly off the trail , most a short detour away . Since it 's a former train line , it 's completely separated from road traffic , and it 's nice , easy ride since the hills were leveled out for the trains . And there are many B&amp;B s etc if you want to stay overnight .
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
The journey is typically split in 2 . Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo Probolinggo to Yogyakarta Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo This journey takes around 1.5 h regardless of the type of transport you take . Renting a motorbike in Probolinggo is the nicest option , see <URL> Catch a ride in a shared taxi with some other tourists . Typically , you book a whole car with driver from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang &amp; back for around 650 ' 000 IDR . So a ride back should cost half of that , for a whole car , with a driver . Catch a ride on a motorbike taxi , locals in Cemoro Lawang will be happy to provide that . Be ready to negotiate . I would not pay more than 150 ' 000 IDR . Note : you may be stuck in Cemoro Lawang if you have n't already organized your journey , so unless you 're prepared to spend a bit of extra time waiting for a good deal , you could end up being in a weak position to negotiate , and pay quite a bit for your ride . Probolinggo to Yogyakarta train journey is around 8h if I remember well , and price for that is around 260 ' 000 IDR . You can have info on train timetables online , at train stations &amp; in local supermarkets ( indomart , alfamaret &amp; the likes ) , more on this on <URL> buses are leaving from Probolinggo bus terminal , be ready for an epic ride . Train vs buses/taxis in Indonesia After traveling for a month in Indonesia , I really appreciate the train a LOT . Train tickets are usually a bit more expensive , but the price difference is definitely worth it . Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages : fixed price ( no annoying &amp; time consuming negotiations ) buying a ticket is easy ( online , or local supermarket , or train station ) it 's more reliable than road transportation it 's faster than buses it 's comfortable ( even the economic class ) it 's clean there are plugs next to the seats ( charge your electronics ) it supports the country for improving its railway infrastructure the list goes on ...
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
<URL> shows 11217 as the neighborhood of Boerum Hill . This is a very nice part of Brooklyn . You have a choice of several nearby subway lines ( <URL> is a major transit hub ) , which will get you into downtown Manhattan in 10-15 minutes , midtown in maybe 15-20 more . Smith Street has a lot of very good restaurants , as do 4th and 5th Aves . The area should be quite safe . [ Edit from a Brooklyner : Boerum Hill is a very low-crime area ; you can look up crime statistics on NYC.gov for any neighborhood . <URL> . It 's still part of the city , so be smart about not displaying valuables , etc. , but it 's a very nice neighborhood . ] I 'm not sure what you mean by " how much does this cost " . If you mean the transport , New York City has a flat fare of $ 2.25 for all subway trips , including transfers , and local buses . ( You can also buy various kinds of passes , see <URL> for details as well as transport maps , etc. ) If you mean living in general , I 'd expect Boerum Hill to be less than Manhattan but still fairly expensive . For lodging , I think you 'll just have to see what hotels are charging . For food , there is a wide range of choices from cheap pizza at $ 2-3 per slice to gourmet restaurants charging $ 30-50 and up for dinner . I would call it an excellent sightseeing base if it is in your price range .
The google maps page you link is n't an accurate representation of the walk - your end point is n't really anywhere near the airport terminals . <URL> is a bit more realistic . I 'd reccommend getting a taxi - # 8 or less for the journey would be my estimate . Your concerns about walking are in fact perfectly justified - the route to the airport from the town centre is mostly not along streets with pavement , and while it 'll most likely be safe from the perspective of worrying about getting mugged , it wo n't be a pleasant stroll . As to getting from there to Watford , you 've identified the right bus . Other than that , the train journey you mentioned you 're trying to avoid is the only other obvious choice - it 'll be quicker , but more expensive . Source : Lived in Luton for a year , made several trips from the north of town to the airport . Used the train lines in that area extensively .
There are boats between Battambang and Siem Reap , they leave in the morning ( around 7am ) and take most of the day . You spend several hours on a small river where you can see tons of animals and birds , later you cross Tonle Sap Lake , the last part to Siem Riep is by jeep . It takes a while but its a great ride . The fruit shakes in Battambang are spectacular , do n't miss them . Edit : I just noticed , that you want to go from Siem Riep to Battambang , not the other way . They boats run in both directions , so the information above still applies .
I see you 've already found Perama , which is the largest cruise/ferry operator around Lombok , and they 're quoting Rp 1.3 million for a deck fare , which sounds about right ( ~ US$ 110 ) . There are other operators , but I doubt you 're going to find anything substantially cheaper , and if you do it 'll be cheap for a reason ( <URL> ) . Even Perama is <URL> , but hey , Indonesia ' gitulah , it 's either that or fly and Merpati is n't much better . What you can do , though , is negotiate your own package where you just combine the dates/bits you 're interested in -- since there are 4 to 6 of you , you 'll have a fair amount of bargaining power . I would n't even bother trying to sort this out beforehand , just show up at the Perama shop in Labuanbajo and see what they can do .
I now called Ryanair 's telephone support for Germany ( +49 900 116 0500 , 0.62 EUR / minute ) . To find my booking , I had to specify my email address , my postal address , and flight data . Support said that , possibly due to a technical glitch , my email address is missing in their system . They then entered the email address , and soon after I received my booking confirmation . Fortunately , the call only took three minutes or so , and thus was not too expensive . I can live with that .
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
end question
start question
Do I need a ( European Auto Insurance ) Green Card while driving inside the EU ?
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
You need to have that printed boarding pass and a valid ID , e.g. a passport . That 's all . Source : Personal experience . I fly Ryanair several times a year .
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
If you were gone for a little less than three months , rather than three months or more , it qualifies as a " short gap " in coverage and so you 're exempt from the requirement to have insurance . From the <URL> What are the statutory exemptions from the requirement to obtain minimum essential coverage ? ... Short coverage gap . You went without coverage for less than three consecutive months during the year . For more information , see question 22 . Otherwise , I suspect that you 're out of luck . There 's an exemption from having coverage if you 're gone for an entire year ; from the <URL> U.S. citizens living abroad are generally subject to the same individual shared responsibility provision as U.S. citizens living in the United States . Starting in 2014 , the individual shared responsibility provision calls for each individual to have minimum essential coverage ( MEC ) for each month , qualify for an exemption , or make a payment when filing his or her federal income tax return . However , U.S. citizens or residents living abroad for at least 330 days within a 12 month period are treated as having MEC during those 12 months and thus will not owe a shared responsibility payment for any of those 12 months . Also , U.S. citizens who qualify as a bona fide resident of a foreign country for an entire taxable year are treated as having MEC for that year . It may still be cheaper to pay the tax penalty for the three months in question than it would be to buy insurance that 's valid in the US , though . You might want to look in to how much the penalty would actually be for you . The penalty for full-year non-coverage is <URL> this would be pro-rated for the parts of the year in which you do n't have coverage , so your penalty would be about a quarter of this amount . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer or a tax professional of any kind , so my reading could be entirely off-base . There may be other exemptions that I 'm not aware of .
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
Yes . The US does not have airside transit , you will need a C-1 transit visa or B-2 visitor visa .
I would not only recommend sunglasses , but also suncream and clothes that protect you from the sunlight . UV radiation is generally lower during the winter months , but snow reflection can double your overall exposure , especially at high altitude .
The Rainbow Bridge is a land border crossing between Canada and the US . There are no facilities to cross it without departing one country and entering the other , so as a result you will need whatever legal status is required to enter the other country - which obviously depends on your citizenship . If you are a Canadian or US citizen then you do not normally need a Visa , but you will require a passport or a passport card . There are exceptions to this if you have a criminal record , etc , but these are the same for any Canadian citizen entering the US or vice versa . If you are a member of a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) for entering the US then you do not normally need a visa ( again , with the usual exceptions around criminal records , etc ) . As you are entering by land you do not need an approved ETSA as you would if entering by air , however you will need to fill in an I94W form . If you are from a country that requires a visa to enter the US , then you will require a visa . Technically if you do not have a visa then the US would most likely " deport " you to the country you arrived from ( ie , back over the bridge to Canada ) - do not think of this as an easy way to get around the requirement if you are just expecting to see the bridge . Doing this will give you a permanent mark against your US immigration record , and make it harder to enter the US in the future ! The main thing you need to keep in mind is that you will be departing from and then re-entering Canada , and thus if you require a visa for entering Canada you should make sure that it will allow you to re-enter . eg , if you are on a single entry visa for Canada , you will technically not be allowed re-enter after visiting the USA .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
<URL> Is the best place to get information on motorcycle overlanding . Answer I can give you is : it depends where you live . It 's easiest to get the carnet in your own country so you 're usually restricted by what 's available there . I can only speak for the UK , where I was able to get a carnet insurance for ~ # 1,300 for a # 2,000 motorcycle ( but the UK is notoriously expensive for carnets ) , though upon the safe return of the motorbike and carnet to the home country , I got a refund of about # 700 of that . You 'll have to contact the carnet issuing companies in your country for a definitive answer .
No , you do n't need a transit visa - as long as you do n't leave the transit lounge . But be sure about your change with airlines/planes , as there are two airports in Istanbul . You may read detailed information on the <URL> . Edit ( not by Mahmut ) to include extract from part of the referenced website : Question : I will be flying to Europe . I know that our aircraft will land in İstanbul . I am not planning to leave the transit lounge . Do I need to get transit visa ? Answer : If you will not leave the transit lounge at the airport you are not required to have transit visa . The above to attempt to clarify that in the above circumstances the nationality of the traveller appears irrelevant ( though so does " I will be flying to Europe " , and interlining of luggage is not covered by the extract ) .
I had to deliver exactly that some months ago . It is right what you described , and it makes not much sense at all , but that 's what they want . A ' notary public ' is a very common side-qualification , every office has typically one or two people that carry it . What you do is make photocopies of your ( Green Card ) , the go to a Notary Public show your ID , and sign in front of the notary public that you confirm that the copy is identical with the original they give you a seal that confirms that they saw your ID and they saw you signing . Note that the seal does not need to be on the photocopy ( but it can ) . This was accepted without questions , and - I asked them - that 's what they wanted . Of course , that leaves various obvious avenues of cheating - you can bring a picture of your dog instead of the requested photocopy , and the notary public would not care ; and you can replace the photocopies after the sealed stamp is signed , as they are on different - not physically connected - sheets of paper . The core point is that you signed it , and the notary just verifies that is was you that signed . If anything turns out wrong or fishy , they know whom to talk to - you signed it for correctness . There are probably better ways - like have the notary public make the photocopies and put the seal physically onto them - but that is not what is done in the USA . For whatever reasons .
Baggage will normally be transferred automatically if you are on a multi-segment trip consisting of transfers ( connections ) rather than stopovers . A transfer is normally 4 hours or less on a domestic itinerary and 24 hours or less on an international itinerary . If the itinerary consists of multiple airlines , the airlines must have an interline baggage agreement to allow the automatic baggage check-through . On some airline combinations , this may also occur even if the itinerary consists of separate tickets . Certain airlines and airports may have other restrictions , for example a given airport may not allow baggage to be checked through if there is an overnight layover at that airport , even though it would be allowed if the layover was the same duration during the day . If your baggage is checked-through to final destination , the final destination and intermediate transfer airports will be shown on the bag tag , so it is useful to glance at this to make sure it has your intended destination on it ; sometimes your bag will be checked-through to a different airport than you were expecting .
Making calls or texting on a handheld phone while driving is illegal and unsafe basically everywhere , and you 're entirely within your rights to tell them to stop and , if they do n't , complain to the taxi authorities or even the police . If they 're using a hands-free device though , and vast majority of cabbies are , you 're likely out of luck . This is ( usually ) legal , and dealing with bookings is a critical part of their livelihood : you 're already in the cab , they 're trying to find their next fare Of course , you can always request they stop , and ask to be dropped off right then and there if they do n't . But if you 're in enough of a hurry that you 're in a taxi in the first place , this may not be a realistic alternative .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
Unless you have n't paid the fine and now have a warrant outstanding I would n't worry about it . Traffic offenses are only a concern if you have committed something serious like a vehicular manslaughter or if you basically ignored the summons or mandatory court appearance and now have a warrant issued for your arrest . <URL> but also provides you with the link to the definitinon of crimes for which your <URL> . The list is too big to copy here but the only thing that involves vehicles is in fact manslaughter : Involuntary , where the statute requires proof of recklessness , which is defined as the awareness and conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustified risk which constitutes a gross deviation from the standard that a reasonable person would observe in the situation . A conviction for the statutory offense of vehicular homicide or other involuntary manslaughter that only requires a showing of negligence will not involve moral turpitude even if it appears the defendant in fact acted recklessly
Yes you can . Because a Canadian license permits you to drive manual transmission cars back home , it 's taken as permission to drive one abroad . Since there is n't a specific ' manual transmission ' license there is no other approach that could be taken . I have rented manual cars in Britain many times on an Ontario license .
To clarify things beforehand , liability insurance is not generally needed for bicycling in Lithuania ( to the best of my knowledge ) , but to use the services of Cyclocity Vilnius . <URL> Your responsibility [ ... ] Make sure you have third party liability insurance , which is mandatory in order to use the service . Liability insurance is generally very good to have so my first recommendation would be for you to get one in your home country or country of residence ( you indicate Belarus ) and make sure that the terms &amp; conditions also cover your travel to Vilnius . Otherwise you could try to purchase a liability insurance just for travel . You will likely still be better off with offers from Belarus but you could also try with international providers . The first hit googling for " liability insurance for travel " gives me this ( apparently American , but targeting internationally ) <URL> ( no affiliation ) , I am sure there are many more upon a more thorough search . Alternatively , I found two other providers of bike rental in Vilnius ( they also offer bike tours ) : <URL> <URL> They do not mention need of a liability insurance but be aware that the system is different from Cyclocity ( which is similar to Velib in Paris , i.e. you can drop and take bikes at/from several stations in town ) and you rent a bike e.g. for the day . Finally - though this is not recommended and only my assumption - I do not believe that Cyclocity checks that you do have liability insurance . I would not know how to prove mine , I do not carry around my contract when traveling . And if you do get in trouble , you are in double trouble .
The other two answers pretty well covered things , but here are a few more notes : <URL> ( In other words , one can treat the red light as a stop sign . ) In some ( maybe all ? ) states , one can be ticketed for driving too slow , even if there is no posted minimum speed limit . ( The citation is usually for something like , " Impeding the flow of traffic . " ) In most states , it is illegal to be seen drinking alcohol in public , including ( and especially ) as a passenger in a car . However , <URL> . In Mississippi , it is still legal for drivers to consume alcohol while driving , as long as their blood alcohol content is below 0.08 % . From personal experience , I 've noticed that in some European countries it is common for cars that are about to overtake on a highway to hover for a while between two lanes ( I saw this a lot in Iberia ) . Also , in Scandanavia in particular , I saw a lot of cars in the right lane actually move onto the shoulder while being overtaken . In my experience , I have never seen either of these practices in the US , and they likely violate many states ' regulations . Given the automotive boom of the mid-20th century , many large , multi-lane roads were built . As such , putting traffic lights at the intersections of these 3 + lane roads to allow left turns became a bottleneck . Therefore , some states implemented other means of turning left on large roads . For example , the <URL> is very common , especially in the Northeast . The " <URL> " is also very common in Michegan . This last note is n't so much about regulations , but I 'd highly recommend bringing or renting a GPS/SatNav . Unlike in most of Europe , I find signage in the US to be particularly bad . For example , in Europe there are often signs in the countryside pointing one to the direction for the nearest cities . In the US , such signs usually only point to the closest highway , so unless you know specifically which highway will point you to your destination , you may be out of luck . Additions ( 2011-07-19 ) : In an increasing number of states , it is illegal to operate a mobile phone while driving . The wording of the laws varies by state ; in some it is even illegal to touch a mobile phone while driving . In most ( if not all ) states it is okay to use a hands-free device ( e.g. , a bluetooth headset ) , though . In some states ( e.g. , Oregon and New Jersey ) it is illegal to pump your own fuel ; all of the gas stations are " full service " ( i.e. , an attendant must pump the fuel for you ) . In these states it is not necessary for you to tip the attendant for his or her service , although I am sure it is appreciated . I am not sure about Oregon , but at least in New Jersey I know that it is illegal to exit your vehicle while your fuel is being pumped ( presumably for the safety of the attendant ) . I believe these laws were enacted in the late 1940s/early 1950s because the government thought that pumping fuel was too difficult and hazardous an activity for the average motorist . The laws have probably persisted because repealing them would mean the loss of a great number of gas attendant jobs . In Oregon , it is possible to find yourself stranded after hours in the middle of nowhere until the gas station opens , so plan ahead . If you plan on using a radar detector , <URL> ( much in the same way that they vary by country in Europe ) . In general , it is legal to use a radar detector in all states except Virginia and Washington , D.C. . In some states ( e.g. , Minnesota and California ) , it is illegal to mount the radar detector from the windshield , since it obstructs the driver 's vision .
end question
start question
Can I bring an anti-religious book into Saudi Arabia ?
Here how it goes : After you pass the passport control desk , you will pass the customs desk . The guys at the customs desk will scan the luggage , if they found books or CDs they might ask you to show them . If they do not like them from the cover , they will take the books and/or CDs and give you a slip . The books will be sent to a department where they will check the books/CDs and you can visit them few days later to collect them if allowed , or to be informed that they are confiscated if they were n't allowed . No more or less , no charges or any other things will be taken against you . Sometimes you will have to pay a fine , usually the fine is 500 SAR ( $ 134 USD ) per prohibited item , but I guess this only applies to CDs/DVDs and rarely happens . If you are not Saudi most likely they will pass on the fine because you do not know the local rules . Regarding anti-religious books , they are not allowed . But again , only if they notice and are in the mood to apply the rules . Regarding Da Vinci code , I bought a copy of this book in Saudi Arabia so I guess it is allowed . In 2000 or 2001 , I brought 3 " inappropriate " CDs , the customs checked them and I had to pay 1500 SAR and they were confiscated . I guess I paid because I was stupid and I argued and shouted . Otherwise they would have just taken them and let me go without paying . Remember , the above is applied to books and CDs/DVDs , alcohol is not allowed and will be confiscated right away . Drugs smuggling is a serious problem and is punishable by the local laws . Last thing , inside Saudi Arabia , no one will care about the book in your hands :)
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
You will need to show visa documentation to board the flight to Canada . Assuming the rest of your family is traveling on your Pakistani passports and if your Iqama status is noted in those passports , the airline may wish to see his Pakistani passport as well at check-in to make sure he is documented to leave . But they should accept his US passport as proof of permission to enter Canada . The question would be if Saudi Arabia requires proof of travel upon your return . This happened to us in Africa , as my daughter used her second passport to avoid visa issues , but then was hassled since her exit visa from the previously visited country was not in the passport she presented to enter the next country .
<URL> Is the best place to get information on motorcycle overlanding . Answer I can give you is : it depends where you live . It 's easiest to get the carnet in your own country so you 're usually restricted by what 's available there . I can only speak for the UK , where I was able to get a carnet insurance for ~ # 1,300 for a # 2,000 motorcycle ( but the UK is notoriously expensive for carnets ) , though upon the safe return of the motorbike and carnet to the home country , I got a refund of about # 700 of that . You 'll have to contact the carnet issuing companies in your country for a definitive answer .
I remember transiting at Zurich Airport a couple of years ago ( both flights on one Swiss ticket ) and arriving airside , so I guess that means yes for you . <URL> It 's not super-clear but I read Arriving Schengen and non-Schengen passengers are handled in separate areas of the Airside Center and reach the Airport Center by different routes , with non-Schengen passengers first passing through immigration controls . as confirming the above . Finally <URL> is in agreement with that .
There are no such temples in Saudi Arabia - source : 26 + years of living there . There are way more Christians in Saudi Arabia than Buddhists - but there are no churches in Saudi Arabia either . It is enshrined in the law - which states that all people are free to practice their religion in private only . Public houses of worship for other religions are not allowed . The Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice - known by their Arabic : مطوعين , enforces this prohibition .
You need cash for many small transactions in Croatia ( most kiosks/independent bakeries , some fast food ) , but not for most hotels , international chain stores , and restaurants . I 'd normally recommend just using a credit/debit card with a low foreign transaction fee to withdraw cash from ATM 's as needed . This is true in general , not just in Croatia : except in situations where you specifically need to bring lots of cash from abroad ( such as in countries with special financial situations like Iran ) , you almost always come out ahead just using ATM 's . If you 're sure you 'll need cash immediately and wo n't be able to visit an ATM early on , I 'd suggest bringing Croatian kuna ( HRK ) . Euros are widely accepted for things like guided tours and hotels , as you 'd expect in a small EU country with lots of tourism ; as you 'd also expect , the rates usually are n't the fairest . The kuna is the national currency , and , in countries with highly developed financial infrastructure ( like Croatia ) , you want to use the national currency as a tourist . Some prices ( such as for hotels ) are quoted in euros to protect against currency volatility and/or save tourists from having to do mental math , but they should accept kuna at the market rate .
I actually think I have the perfect thing for you . I made this site to check for when any booked hotels open up , and send you an email/text when it does : <URL> Full disclosure , I 'm the creator of the site . You should add all the hotels that are in that area , and when any of them have an opening , it will notify you right away . Make sure you put all the hotels in there as soon as possible to increase your chances of getting in . As @Krippled Hick says , sometimes if you need a booking for 2 or more nights , one or just some of those nights might become available first . Hotel Room Alerts will notify you when a portion of the dates you need open up . Improving the site is a labor of love for me . Let me know how it goes !
First , you must declare all food , even food that is allowed . Second , according to <URL> you may bring : cheese : up to 20 kilograms per person You may not bring : milk , milk products ( whey , cream , skim milk , butter oil , and so on ) dried , frozen , reconstituted , or fresh Note they do not distinguish among cheese types as you have done - it 's all allowed . ( I personally suspect raw cheese might be an issue but the web site does n't say so . Obviously being in sealed , professionally-labelled packages helps . ) A friend brought rather a lot of fondue mix home from a Swiss trip and I presume she declared it . She was able to bring it in without issues .
I just found an interesting article in the <URL> . CINCINNATI ( USA ) - Champagner , Schokolade und totale Diskretion : Das bekommt , wer bei Flamingo Air den " Mile High Special " -- sprich das " Sex im Flugzeug " - Arrangement -- bucht . Unfortunately the article is in German , but the headline says more or less : Champagne , chocolate , and total confidentiality : This is what Flamingo Air offers as their Mile High Special , i.e. whoever will book the " Sex on Board of a Plane " arrangement will get this . So there seems really to be a company that offers such services . And obviously I do n't think I will get into trouble if using such a dedicated service . Their story seems to be true . A quick Google search revealed that other newspapers in English are also reporting about this company . And even on the website of Flamingo Air , this service is mentioned . Funnily , there it is called <URL> .
You bring up a good point . Cancellation penalties are so different by property that its hard to really get a cancellation system going that would then allow you to fill rooms at the last minute . With that said though , there are sites like laterooms.com and lastminutetravel.com that you could check . In my travels , I 've found that there is always a room available in any given city , its just that you may pay quite a bit for it :-) . The major hotel booking Web sites usually pull from the same global distribution system , but some of them may have a special deal with specific properties and hence while one site will show sold out another may not . So this means you should try them all . Also , if you know where you want to stay , contact them by phone or e-mail as not all their rooms may be available online . Plus , not all accommodations can be booked online . I 'm an odd traveler as I 'll go to a totally unknown destination without a hotel room reservation . After 107 countries traveled , only once I 've had to pay $ 200/night for a room and that was in Amsterdam after walking around for 3 hours and could not find something that was cheaper and that I liked . I was tired and wet from the rain , so I caved . I hope this helps .
The same page you linked to states : If the alcohol is purchased before going through the security checkpoint , our <URL> apply for carry-on or checked baggage . Which means you must pack the growler in your checked luggage , as it 's over 100 mL . There 's no significant concern about it exploding . Remember that the cargo hold is <URL> the same as the passenger cabin .
I guess while pens in theory could be used to cause pain , as could some types of shoes or household keys , and they 're allowed . I assure you , you 'll have zero problem taking an ordinary ballpoint or ink pen ( or pencil ) on a flight - unless you have some weird pen in the shape of a dagger or something :)
Depends on the tea , check <URL> . Seems forbidden if the tea contains fruit or vegetable leaves or seeds , including citrus leaves or seeds . But otherwise okay for personal use . But you might want to double check .
First , you did a good thing , there was no comeback , and so it 's all good . But I want to answer your more general question for other people in that situation , Many buffets have and explicit ' no leftovers no sharing ' policy , if they do n't make it explicit up front then they undoubtedly will if you start abusing the buffet . So while sneaking someone a few chicken wings ( or whatever ) may go unnoticed it becomes a slippery slope to feeding a ton of other people for free . And , if you 're caught , they will attempt to make you pay . If you get caught the best case is you pay for a buffet for an extra person , worst case -- if the buffet is included in the room rate -- you pay for an extra room . While I would have done what you did I would probably recommend other people to offer a little money to the towel boy , or offer to take him for breakfast somewhere else . The chances are the hotel knows about this and are OK with it , but it 's also possible that it 's a setup for a scam which is why it might be better to offer something else . But you should never feel unable to say no if it 's something you 're not comfortable with . I do n't want to sound boorish but it 's OK not to give if you do n't want to . I do n't imagine you 're the first person the boy has hit up for food , nor will you be the last . Similarly I 'd wager that he 's pretty used to being refused and it 's not going to affect him . Sure it might make you feel bad , but then I suspect that 's the point . You could try and address the larger problem ( that the hotel employees ? or hangers-on do n't make enough ) either via the hotel website or other review sites . But that 's not really what you asked . In short , if you want to help , offer some help in some other way , because sliding stuff off the buffet has potential to get you in a heap of trouble . But , if you do n't want to help , do n't be afraid to say no .
Yes you can , a few years ago Saudi Arabia began to allow this and now people on Umrah/Hajj visas can visit any place in Saudi Arabia and it is not limited to Makkah and Madinah only as it was before . Just make sure to carry your Hajj/Umrah visa with you .
There are a few problems you can run into : If your BOM-IST flight departure is delayed or otherwise rescheduled , it is the airline responsibility to bring you to the destination by rescheduling the remaining legs . Flying on two tickets it is your responsibility ( consider change fees and possible unavailability of flights ) . If your BOM-IST flight is canceled , and you decide not to fly with them , you are eligible for full refund ( i.e. both for BOM-IST and IST-MUC segments ) . However if you buy separate tickets , you 're only eligible for refund of BOM-IST segment , unless IST-MUC is also canceled . You would be likely required to collect and recheck your bags . It may be still possible to check them to the final destination through if you 're flying the same airline and can check into both flights ( i.e. your next flight is less than 24hr away ) , but the airline does n't have to do this . Because of 3 ) above you might need to have visa/papers for your connection ; Turkish visa for US citizens , for example , is $ 20 . Because of 3 ) above if your bag is lost on the first leg , the airline will only deliver it to IST once it is found . So you 'd have to wait for your bag there . The amount of compensation you receive for a flight delay is different too , as it is based on your final destination , not connection destination . If you decide to change flights ( move them a day ahead , for example ) , you 'd have to change both tickets and pay 2x change fees , versus paying only one change fee . Finally , if your home or destination country does n't like the connecting country , you might be in trouble on arrival . For example , if you 're US citizen and flying something like Europe-Cuba-Mexico-US , and get a Cuban stamp in your passport ( no idea if they put it or not ) , you might end up doing some explanation at home . Same if you " transit " this way through Dubai , and later try to fly to Israel , you 'll get much more questioning due to UAE entry/exit stamps in your passport - which you otherwise would n't have . There are however benefits too : If you decide to skip one leg , and jump into another , this would invalidate a single ticket . However you can do this when you have two tickets , as cancellation of the first ticket does n't affect the second one . The frequent flier mileage is supposed to be calculated based on a straight line between origin and destination . Thus if you have two tickets , in theory you should rack up more frequent flier miles . In reality , however , it seems that most airlines I flew calculate them per segment and not by straight line , so I wonder if this still remains a benefit .
You should be fine . <URL> : If you are importing or exporting monetary instruments equal to or greater than CAN$ 10,000 ( or the equivalent in a foreign currency ) , you must report the amount to the CBSA when you arrive or before you leave Canada . This applies to either cash or other monetary instruments . Even if you do want to bring in more cash than the CAN$ 10,000 limit , you are allowed to do so - <URL> .
I do n't think any airline would allow you to take that sword as carry-on luggage into the cabin with you . However , you should be able to check it in as luggage ( but it may be considered oversize luggage , which may be an extra fee ) . Just be sure to pack it well ( you can find info about packing actual swords as luggage online , which may be helpful ) .
Yes , you can - the pending H1-B application does not impact your ability to use the VWP program at all . As with anyone using VWP you will need to obtain an ESTA in advance of your trip . The only real complication is that you can not change from VWP to H1-B status whilst in the US . ie , if/when your H1-B is approved , you will need to leave the US to obtain your visa and then re-enter the US using that visa to get your H1-B status .
end question
start question
US B1/B2 visa , renewed when entering country ?
The decision whether and for how long is made <URL> : At the port-of-entry , a U.S. immigration officer of the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) decides whether to allow you to enter and how long you can stay for any particular visit , as part of the Admission process . Only the U.S. immigration officer has the authority to permit you to enter the United States . Six months is the normal maximum but this may be extended <URL> . Leaving USA terminates the validity of the visa , where that is single entry , or utilises one of the allowed entries where multiple entry . Returning from the EU ( after Christmas ) is a further entry , the duration of which is again up to the immigration officer -- and might be six months .
The right answer to this is that it depends on the consulate officer . I got my B1/B2 with only a single document , my employment/income proof . From what I can understand , as long as consulate officer is convinced that you have enough money to sponsor the trip and enough reason to come back to your country , it is enough for them . Strictly speaking while an invitation letter is a plus , it is not mandatory . It just helps in increasing your chances , in case consulate officer gets suspicious that you are up to no good .
Generally no , especially if you 're asking about academic studies : Is it permissible to enroll in school while in B-1 / B-2 status ? No , it is not . The regulations , at 8 CFR 214.2 ( b ) ( 7 ) , specifically prohibit study in the United States while in B-1 or B-2 status . Before enrolling in classes , individuals who are in B-1 or B-2 status must first acquire F-1 ( academic student ) or M-1 ( vocational student ) status . Enrolling in classes while in B-1 / B-2 status will result in a status violation . Individuals in B-1 or B-2 status , who have violated their nonimmigrant status by enrolling in classes , are not eligible to extend their B status or change to F-1 or M-1 status . These regulations provide no exceptions . <URL> However , allegedly there is a way kind of study legally provided that the course is short , limited to no more than 18 hours a week , and recreational . Requirements to Study on the B Visa Your course of study must be less than 18 hours per week . You must be studying for recreational purposes , not for academic credit . Evidence of sufficient funds to pay for all expected expenses for the duration of your visit . <URL>
Not being a lawyer and being myself a citizen from a Schengen and EU member state , I do n't have any direct experience with this kind of issues so that everything I will say should be taken with a grain of salt . Still , I am wondering if it makes any difference in practice ( and , incidentally , how frequently this could really happen ) . It seems that a long stay visa from one of the member states of the Schengen agreement ( which is not a Schengen visa as the Schengen agreement only covers short stays and each member state remains mostly free to establish rules governing long stay visas as they see fit ) gives you the same rights , in other member states , as a " uniform visa " ( i.e. multiple entries in the Schengen area for a maximum of 90 days stay in any half-year ) . This <URL> seems to support this interpretation . According to this webpage , what you have to do to be able to enter France again after 5 months is to go back to the country that delivered the long stay visa ( i.e. Germany in your example ) , just as an " uniform visa " would require you to go back to a non-Schengen country to avoid using up your 90 days quota . One thing I do n't know is how you can go about documenting the fact that you did leave France if you travel by road instead of taking a connecting flight since there are no border controls between France and Germany . That 's the main practical difference with the uniform visa situation as external Schengen borders are guarded and you would get an exit stamp on your passport but the 90 days rule applies in both cases . ( You mentioned France as an example and I looked it up in French but I believe those rules were defined in some EU directives so they should apply for other Schengen countries as well . ) Most importantly , a long stay visa from Germany ( or any other Schengen country ) does not entitle you to stay in France ( or any other Schengen country ) for as long as you wish ( i.e. Germany can not deliver long stay visas for France or vice versa ) so that in both cases you are really using your right to make a short stay in France . Only after 5 years of residence in Germany , will you in fact be entitled to a long stay visa in France ( actually a " titre de séjour " , this is not a visa but a separate document ) but this has nothing to do with Schengen , this is a EU rule that does not apply to non-EU Schengen countries ( and also not to the UK , Ireland and Denmark , despite their being EU members because they opted out , see <URL> ) . It probably also applies to Switzerland via their bilateral agreements with the EU but I am not quite sure . I suspect that having this right recognized might not always be trivial in practice . Additionally , I understand that there are complex rules regarding airside transit . Depending on your nationality , you might be entitled to visa-free transit in international airports of some or all Schengen area countries , so technically needing a visa to stay in the Schengen area does not automatically imply requiring a visa in your scenario .
The decision whether and for how long is made <URL> : At the port-of-entry , a U.S. immigration officer of the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) decides whether to allow you to enter and how long you can stay for any particular visit , as part of the Admission process . Only the U.S. immigration officer has the authority to permit you to enter the United States . Six months is the normal maximum but this may be extended <URL> . Leaving USA terminates the validity of the visa , where that is single entry , or utilises one of the allowed entries where multiple entry . Returning from the EU ( after Christmas ) is a further entry , the duration of which is again up to the immigration officer -- and might be six months .
Short answer - you 're good ! Longer answer ... Germany normally requires a visa for Indian nationals , even if only in transit - however there are a number of exceptions that allow air-side transit without visa ( TWOV ) . One of those exceptions is if you have a Canadian visa , and you are in transit either on the way to Canada , or on the way to your home country ( regardless of where you are traveling from ) . Clearly your concern here is that your Canadian visa will be expired by the time you arrive in Frankfurt , however this is NOT a problem ! As long as your visa was valid when you commenced your return trip , then you will be allowed transit . So your expired Canadian visa IS sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Another of the exceptions is the same as above , but for a US visa . As you have a valid US visa , you are also covered there . So your unexpired US visa IS also sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Note that in both cases you will need to remain airside , and will need to be scheduled to depart FRA within 24 hours of arrival .
I do not think that you have any reason to worry . Remember that each country sets its own criteria for visa issuance , and that the criteria are different for different types of visas . France is not part of the United States , and will not be concerned with whether you qualify for the B1/B2 visa . It will be sufficient for them that you have it . Because visitor visas have different requirements than student visas , it 's unlikely that anyone at the French consulate could even guess whether you continue to qualify for the US visitor visa , given that your application to them should be designed to show you meet the requirements for a student visa . There is one thing though . If , while processing your visa application , France determines that you are wanted in the US for a crime , they might notify the US of your location . ( And most likely refuse your visa . )
Websites for comparing US air travel prices : Aggregators <URL> <URL> Online Travel Agents <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Other Airline websites ( e.g , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. )
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
I spoke to multiple immigration lawyers and consultants and the consensus was that the consulate employee was poorly trained in US visa policy , as it was my US visa status that mattered , not the visa stamp . So I went back to the embassy to try again at a later date . This time , there was a different employee , and now , two weeks later , I have in my hands a Schengen visa .
I 've found the answer in the <URL> . The bad news is that if you renew your passport , you have to re-apply ( and pay again ) for a new ESTA : What should I do if the information on my passport has changed ? If you obtain a new passport or there is a change to your passport information , you must apply for a new travel authorization and pay the associated fees . There are <URL> that you can update about your ESTA without having to re-apply , but they are n't passport related . The list is : E-mail address Telephone number Carrier Information City where you are boarding Address while in the United States
Here 's a complete list of instructions attached to the " appointment confirmation " document : Instructions Welcome We look forward to seeing you at the U.S. Embassy/Consulate . For your safety and convenience , we ask that you arrive at the time of your appointment , and not earlier . We do n't want you to have to wait on the street , particularly during periods of harsh weather . As a reminder , you will need to bring the following required documents : A printed copy of your appointment letter Your DS-160 confirmation page , One recent photograph , Your current passport and all old passports , Additional documents depending on the visa category Security Screening As you prepare for your visit to the U.S. Embassy/Consulate , there are a few things you can do to help speed your entry . The safety and comfort of our guests and employees is something we take very seriously , so all visa applicants and American Citizen Services ( ACS ) customers must go through security screening before entering the Consular Section . To help avoid unnecessary delays for yourself and others , there are a few things which you should not bring : Large shoulder bags/purses -- bigger than the size of an A-4 format page and zip folders . Applicants may bring one plastic bag or folder with application related documents or a small purse or handbag . Immigrant visa applicants may bring their visa application materials and the sealed envelope with the results of their medical examination . Luggage , such as suitcases , backpacks , briefcases , and other travel bags . These items can not be brought to the Embassy/Consulate and can not be left outside the Embassy/Consulate on the sidewalk or with individuals waiting outside . You may wish to leave your luggage in your hotel room or a train station locker . Battery-operated or electronic devices such as cameras , laptops , recording devices or portable music players . Food and drink . Sealed envelopes or packages , except for sealed envelopes containing medical exam results . Cigarettes , cigars , match boxes , lighters . Sharp objects such as scissors , pen knives or nail files . Weapons or explosive materials of any kind . Cellular telephones must be left with Embassy/Consulate security personnel . This list is not exhaustive . Other items may be prohibited at the discretion of security staff . There is no facility at the Embassy/Consulate to store prohibited items ( aside from cellular telephones ) . You will need to make arrangements to store these items elsewhere before entering . Only American Citizens seeking ACS services or visa applicants and ACS customers with a confirmed appointment will be admitted to the Consular Section . Unfortunately , there is no parking available at the Embassy/Consulate and cars can not stop or stand on the street in front of the building . Visa applicants and ACS customers arriving by car should park in one of the paid public parking spots near the Embassy/Consulate or arrange to be dropped off down the street . Once again , to provide you with better and faster service , we ask that you arrive at the time of your interview and not before . Judging by the document itself , you can easily tell that the security procedures are going to be annoying . Below I 'll describe how the procedure looked like in my case - an interview in Warsaw . Please excuse the verbosity and feel invited to write a " TL ; DR " section : Since I did n't know anything what would happen if I happened to try to bring in one of the forbidden items , I decided to wear informal clothes and carry only absolutely necessary items before going through the security check . . When I reached the U.S. Consular Office , I could see about a dozen people waiting outside the office . I was 15 minutes earlier , but one woman from the crowd told me that she 's just waiting to be let in because she had to turn off her mobile phone and that I 'll probably be allowed earlier . While waiting , I could see a big sign next to the door . It said that it is strictly forbidden to bring any mobile phones , weapons and some other objects that I ca n't remember anymore . I felt worried , because the instructions said that I would be allowed to leave it at the security check . On the other hand , another sign on the door said that it 's allowed to deposit turned off mobile phones . A rather impolite man let in people one-by-one and when it was finally my turn , made sure that the phone is switched off by pressing a key , then took it and gave me a token . Then I went through the metal detector , the procedure reminded the one in the airports . A woman before me had some metal detected in her small bag and had it manually inspected , so if you plan to bring one , try to bring as few private things as possible . On the other hand , it was definitely bigger than an A4 sheet , so it looks like they are n't extremely strict when enforcing the instructions . I was let in and after walking through a rat
U.S. citizens can visit Japan without a visa anyway , so there 's certainly no need to get one for transiting . Regarding the second part of your question , you do n't have to pass through immigration at Narita on an international-to-international connection . From <URL> : When connecting between international flights , passengers are not required to undergo Immigration procedures if they are staying in the departure area ( airside ) until their next flight . The page linked above also contains instructions for how to transit from one international flight at Narita to another with instructions specific to each of Narita 's three terminals . You should probably figure out which terminals your arriving and departing flights will likely use and read through that guide . In short , though , the transfer process is this : After exiting the aircraft , follow the signs for " international transfer . " Go through transfer security . This will be similar to the normal security checks you go through to board a flight , though you might want to look up the specific rules for what Japan allows when passing through security checks , as these may differ somewhat from the U.S. Note that you will need to show a boarding pass or a ticket for your onward flight in order to pass through transfer security . If you do n't already have a boarding pass for your connecting flight , go to one of the transfer desks for your airline to check in and get it . If your departing flight leaves from a different terminal than where you arrived , you 'll need to take a shuttle bus to your departing terminal . The timetables for these busses can be accessed via the link above . These busses are specifically for transit passengers and will depart and arrive inside the airside portion of the terminals , so you will not need to pass through immigration or security again after getting off the bus . Proceed to your departure gate .
It seems you wo n't have a problem with this , just make sure you carry the official documentation about your name change . It 's also very common to carry two passports , the old one with the valid visa and a newer one . Quoting the US <URL> : A change of name will not affect the validity of the visa . We recommend that when traveling , you carry a copy of the document showing the name change .
I do n't see anywhere on the <URL> that they do n't or wo n't do visas for citizens of other countries . As a matter of fact if you look at the <URL> you will see that they still do B1 and B2 visas with full application so that means that you can apply for a visa in Stockholm even though you are not a Swedish citizen just read the requirements in the <URL> and <URL> to see what you need to get a visa .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
You should not have any troubles travelling directly to USA from Sweden . At most , you 'd get questions at the airport in Sweden when checking in , and you 'd have to explain ( or prove ) your current status in Sweden . The US authorities wo n't care much where are you flying from , as long as you hold a valid visa . I myself travelled on a B1/B2 visa from Sweden one month ago , and I 'm not a Swedish citizen either . There were n't any problems at all . However , I 'd bring copies of documents certifying your status in the country ( for example , letter from Migrationsverket , letter from Skatteverket with your personal number , and/or a valid Swedish ID document ) . I did n't have any of those with me , though I managed to get by only by showing a credit card issued by a Swedish bank and speaking in Swedish , but your mileage may vary -- in retrospect , I definitely should have brought supporting documents .
Yes you need a visa to enter Turkey , according to <URL> United States of America : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . They can obtain three month-multiple entry visas from Turkish diplomatic representations abroad and also via the website <URL> . Please note , no more visa stickers on border crossings , you have to obtain the e-visa in advance : As of April 17 , 2013 , electronic visa ( e-Visa ) replaces " sticker visa " which was issued at the border crossings . Applicants just need to log on to www.evisa.gov.tr , provide the requested information , ( after the application is approved ) make online payment and download their e-Visa . The e-visa is easy to obtain and takes 24 hours to be issued , as mentioned in the <URL> page : Your e-Visa will be e-mailed to you within 24 hours after completion of your application . Note : The e-Visa 's introduced in 2013 are now becoming mandatory . Sticker visas will not be available at border crossings beginning April 10th , 2014 . If you needed a visa before , you must now obtain it in advance . This includes US citizens . There are even more restrictions on arrival for many other countries .
<URL> is issuing the Russian visas in Tbilisi , but not the touristic ones , unfortunately . So you must apply for a visa in Australia .
In principle , you are indeed allowed to spend another 90 days in the Schengen area , because the time spent under a long-stay visa or residence permit does not count towards the maximum duration of a visa-free short-stay , see <URL> One issue will however be how those 90 days are counted . When crossing the border , the guards might ask about missing stamps ( also on the way out ! ) . You can then show your expired residence permit to prove that you were legally present in Finland even though your last entry stamp is older than 90 days . But if you do n't have any document to account for the time between the expiration of the permit and the moment you cross the border , then that time will probably count towards the 90 days . And if the permit 's expiration date lies more than 90 days in the past and you spent the whole time in the Schengen area , then you have a problem . If at all possible , it could be easier to leave and enter the Schengen area through Finland , as the Finnish border guards might be more familiar with your situation or perhaps even be able to verify that you have an application pending . Traveling to France or Germany from there should n't be a problem after that .
end question
start question
What 's the cheapest way to reach the Cristo Redentor ( Corcovado ) ?
The city bus to Corcovado railway station ( Cosme Velho street ) stops at the lower station of cable car . <URL> . The cable car is one option . AFAIK , price is R$ 43 per adult , which is around 21 USD . There is also a road to the top , but city buses do n't go there . At the station you can usually also find people that will offer you ride with their minibuses . The price is comparable to cable car . It may be cheaper if you are in larger group , so you can hire whole car .
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
Funnily enough , there 's scientifically exact solution to this - it 's known as the <URL> and is considered to be NP-complete - it is expected that no algorithm can be both correct and fast ( polynomial-time ) on ALL cases . But naturally there are tips and suggestions to help guide you towards an optimal solution . Running shoes , it 's good to remember , have space inside them . Stuff socks , chargers and whatever else fits into them ! Oddly , I pack my jacket last . As you 've pointed out it takes tons of space if put in first , no matter how you fold it . But I find I can stuff it in no matter what at the end , and it means it 's easily accessible if the weather changes . I also find that ' hard ' solid items ( netbooks ) can make room for themselves after the fact . I 'll just force-slide it down the back of my pack , and it never seems to not fit :) Now , for the main set of clothes , assuming you have ' sets ' , the Bundle wrap method saves a lot of space and keeps stuff quite well folded and together . See <URL> . Also <URL> . And I ca n't answer this without linking to <URL> - it 's famous among minimalist travellers for giving you suggestions about what to keep/lose to lighten your load or fit more in .
It turned out there was a campground just a couple of minutes walk from the KTEL bus station where I posted my question from ! It did n't show up when I used Google Web or Maps for " camping " or " campground " . I fluked finding it by Googling for " Lonely Planet Ioannina " <URL> . Then Googling for its name led to some skimpy details with no info on prices or how late I could check in . And of course I walked in the wrong directions around the city for about an hour since Google Maps must 've been showing me some other bus station . <URL> where they even make it seem like there is some possibility of getting a bed or room . It turned out to be $ 9 per tent and $ 2 per person but I was given a $ 3 discount because it was the low season . So the cheapest option in Ioannina in early October is $ 8 ! High season prices : ( Note this sign does not mention anything about beds or rooms that are mentioned on the website ) Contact details :
Adioso lets you search for any time . Additionally Skyscanner lets you search across an entire month . Generally Skyscanner has a better range . <URL> has a good overview of searching for a trip in this way .
You could take a <URL> bus directly from <URL> for 39 $ ( or 35 $ for " Promotional Ticket - can not be changed or refunded ! " ) The trip takes 4 to 4 1/2 hours , and looks like there are 1-3 daily connections . I do n't know if this is the cheapest public transport option available ( probably not ) , but it 's much better than the ICE price , and quite convenient because it 's a direct connection .
Wikipedia 's entry on <URL> has detailed information on tracks and lodges . It also provides 6 references with details . Apparently about 700 people visit annually . It is reached as a side trip of <URL> . There is a map <URL> . The blue lake is a side trip , estimated to take <URL> . DISCLAIMER : I have n't been there , all information stated here is fully based on the mentioned Wikipedia entry .
I am not from around your area , but prospecting has always been an interest of mine . <URL> looks at the general information relating to prospecting in the US , a link from that article <URL> provides more detail . <URL> has many links pertaining to the rules , regulations and locations of the gold-panning areas in the Pacific Northwest . I hope this helps .
Here is a map from gcmap.com showing all the airports near your target location that fly to London , UK . I chose that since almost anywhere will fly to London somehow . X marks your target location roughly . Which airport is best depends on where you are travelling from . There may be one or more stops from most of these airports , with DTW more likely to have a non-stop ( or actually be on the route to/from the other airports ) . <URL> I entered a random date searching for flights from FRA to DTW , XEC , YQG ( YQG has complications since it 's in Canada ) and it does seem that DTW is the only reasonable option . Looking on <URL> , a typical UberX price from DTW to Auburn Hills is stated as $ 45 - $ 58 . Google maps transport links to <URL> . However it 's looking like a 3-3 .5 hour journey to get to Auburn Hills rather than a 45 minute taxi ride . Are you interested in that ?
Here 's what I ended up doing : I left my hotel at 5:30 to walk up to Colaba Causeway to catch a bus to Churchgate station . There are at least four different buses doing this route including the 106,123 and 132 . I had to wait 30 minutes for the first bus , in this time I could have walked to the station . The fare was 6 Rs . At Churchgate I bought a ticket ( 8 Rs ) for the fast train to Andheri station which left at 6:14 and took about 35min . There are many trains but I recommend using a fast one . Because I was good on time , I had breakfast at a restaurant near Andheri station for 20 min and then took bus No. 308 ( 7 Rs ) right to the airport . Finally there was a 3min walk to the terminal . So the whole journey took less than 2 hours and cost 21 Rs ( US$ 0.42 ) . If you are leaving later in the day , the traffic is much havier but there are also more frequent buses . Also both buses and trains get very busy during rush hour , but I still think it is possible to do this at any time of the day if you do n't have too much luggage .
You should definitely try <URL> , as pointed out by mts in the comments . It is much used in the Vallée du Rhône , I 'm sure you will find a friendly driver . If you do n't find your route directly on the website , try broadening the start/finish of your trip by looking on a map . I used blablacar a lot as a driver , unfortunately not in this area . Also , if you do these trips regurlarly , there might be some subscriptions with the SNCF that could lower the price per journey .
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
The cheapest way is to buy two domestic tickets : either Paris -- Hendaye and Irun -- Madrid , or Paris -- Cerbère and Portbou -- Madrid . See below for details . For this kind of questions , in general , <URL> is a useful resource . It is most useful in connection to Interrail , but also useful in general to get an overview of connections . For example , for Paris -- Madrid , it links <URL> . Normally , the best connections is to take the Corail Lunéa from Paris to the Franco-Spanish border at Hendaye/Irun , then take a Spanish domestic train from there . According to Raildude , this connection is currently ( 2013-01-17 ) suspended , but it 's bookable at tgv-europe . com ( see below ) , so I 'm not so sure anymore how good Raildude really is ;) . To find the cheapest option , you have two alternatives : Either find a date that the <URL> is affordable . In a Super reclining seat , it might not have to be as expensive as your quote . I recall some tickets were as cheap as 70 $ , but I do n't find any examples cheaper than the price you quoted right now . Or , probably cheaper , have separate tickets for the French and Spanish legs . This means either a French night train and a Spanish day train , or a French day train , a night at the border , and another Spanish day train . There 's also a Spanish night train to Portugal that you could depart from in the middle of the night , but that 's neither cheap nor comfortable . Inside France , you can use the <URL> to find cheap connections ( day or night ) . Try to search from Paris to Hendaye . Most days the cheapest ticket is 33 $ , but on some days tickets are as cheap as 17 $ . The cheapest ticket is either a seat on a day train , or a seat on a night train . Look carefully from what station in Paris the train departs , because night trains depart from a different station . Inside Spain , consult <URL> . Since you have already selected the date for the French part , you have less flexibility here , but my experience is anyway that ticket prices are less varying in Spain than in France . The interface is in Spanish ; there is an English language interface , but it may be less complete . Renfe.com will normally only list direct trains . Click on Compra de biletes and search Irun to Madrid . Irun -- Hendaye is just 5 km , and most domestic trains continue to the first station across the border , even if domestic train sites do not list this . Check a timetable to be sure . Ida means one way , Ida y vuelta means round trip . For March , I 'm currently finding tickets for as little as $ 16.65 , which would put your total train Paris -- Madrid to potentially less than 35 $ , though more likely around 60 $ since you rarely get the cheapest option for all legs . From the comments below , you may also try Paris -- Figueres and Figueres -- Madrid ( daytime 5 hours ) , or Paris -- Cerbère , Port Bou -- Barcelona , and Barcelona -- Madrid , or , at night , directly Port Bou -- Madrid . The TGV does n't serve Cerbère or Port Bou ( and is therefore not listed in the low-price calendar listed above ) , but can be reached by regional train from Perpignan in 30 minutes , hourly connections from Paris ( check the travel-planner at <URL> . Then the night train Port Bou -- Madrid departs 19.03 , arrival Madrid 07.21 . Unlike international night trains , domestic night trains in Spain are not very expensive . One other alternative : If you 're going from Germany to Spain and back all the way by train , you might want to consider to get an <URL> . You 'll need to buy a 50 % - ticket to and from the border of your own country , but after that you only need reservations . Particularly if you 're in the youth category ( below 26 years old ) that might very well lead to a cheaper journey , with the big advantage that your tickets are flexible , and can be rebooked at ( almost ) no financial cost . Rebooking however can involve long queues at railway stations , particularly in France ...
The standard way would be to take a train . The <URL> is the place to look for train schedules and prices , and you can book online and print most ticket types at home . The website normally shows the fastest routes only , but you can tell it to omit ICEs ( high-speed trains , often more expensive ) or to stick to regional trains ( slowest and usually cheapest ) . The bad news about German rail prices is that they are very complicated . The good news is that the DB trip planner will usually offer you the cheapest price for a given connection . The exception is that sometimes a day ticket is cheaper even for a single trip , and the website wo n't always tell you . Generally speaking , you will get a substantial discount if you decide on a day and time early and book a non-refundable , non-exchangeable ticket . These tickets can often give you high-speed travel for a similar price as regional trains . Some ticket types also include the possibility of local travel ( buses , trams , U-Bahn , S-Bahn ) at the beginning or end of the journey , check if it 's a possibility ( it 's rarely a deciding factor in choosing a fare type ) . At the moment , the cheapest fare I can see in October is 44 $ for a high-speed connection ( direct , or ICE most of the way with one change ) , if you avoid the heaviest-loaded peak hour trains , for a 4 1/2 to 5 hours journey time . Alternatively , you can pay 42 $ for a ticket that lets you travel on all regional trains in Germany for a day provided you start after 9am ( <URL> ) . Do note that Freiburg to Hannover is 10 hours on regional trains . If several of you are traveling on the same route , note that some ticket types offer considerable discounts for additional passengers . For example , the Quer-durchs-Land-Ticket is only 6 $ for each additional passenger traveling together . The <URL> , valid for one day on a Saturday or Sunday in regional trains only , is 39 $ for up to 5 people . Thus one possibility for cheap travel is to find someone who 's taking the same train anyway and offer to pay the add-on price . I do n't foresee this working well for a cross-country journey like yours though . Sometimes you can get cheap fares on budget airlines . These are often only attractive if you have a cheap way to get to and from the airport ; otherwise the cost of local transportation can be prohibitive . There 's no airport near Freiburg ; the closest is the <URL> , and a bus ticket to Freiburg is a whooping <URL> . If you do n't take the train and do n't fly , your other option is to hitch-hike . That can come out cheapest , if you find someone going the right way at the right time . If you 're traveling from the <URL> , the situation is quite different . Flying might be more attractive , though for this particular combination of cities it does n't seem to be : you ca n't fly direct to Hannover , only to Hamburg , and <URL> 's cheapest fare comes out at 41 $ ( including the booking fees in small type ) . The best train route is via Basel ( which you can <URL> by a <URL> <URL> ) ; this requires going through Switzerland ( which may be a problem for some visa types ) . ( While there are both an SNCF ( French railways ) station ( Basel/B âle SNCF ) and a DB ( German railways ) station ( Basel Bad Bf ) in Basel , they are separated by a few hundred meters of Switzerland . The SNCF station is next to the Swiss railway station , Basel SBB . Since Switzerland has joined <URL> , border checks are no longer systematic and Shengen visas are valid . ) At this time , the 44 $ rate from Basel Bad to Hannover is available if you travel near the middle of the day . Book early , as prices will rise towards the standard fare ( 119 $ ) as the travel day approaches . Many discount rates are also valid from Basel SBB ( which is where the bus from the airport drops you ) . There 's also a discount rate for international tickets from and to Germany , <URL> , but I 'm not sure if it 's available from Basel . There 's a direct night train as well ; it 's more expensive than the day train but can be less expensive than the day train plus a night in a hostel . If you need to avoid Switzerland , take a bus to Saint-Louis then French regional trains to Mulhouse and on to Strasbourg . You can look up the times , but not book , on the <URL> ( Saint-Louis is " St-Louis ( Haut Rhin ) " ) . You can look up times and prices on the <URL> ( French only as far as I can see ) ; there are no discounts for advance purchase on regional trains , so buy your ticket when you arrive at the station .
It is very difficult to answer since there are hundreds or thousands skis resorts in the Alps . But to narrow down the potential candidates , I would focus on very small ski resorts in Austria . The reason is quite simple , smaller resorts are generally cheaper than big resorts and Austria is generally way cheaper than Switzerland , and cheaper ( at least concerning ski resorts ) than France . If had to recommend a single location , it would be <URL> in Vorarlberg , Austria . The first sentence of the homepage says that it is one of the cheapest ski resorts in all of Austria . This ski resort also offers a good opportunity called . This means you can pay for a ticket in the morning and then as soon as you 've had enough snowboarding you can give it back and then you will receive some money back . As a beginner this might be a good choice . Laterns is not the only ski resort that offer such tickets . Nowadays it is quite common in the Alps ( or at least Austrian Alps ) . A lot of ski resorts also offer perks if you 're a student or in military service . So do n't forget your student card if you have one .
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
I looked through our database at <URL> where we 're working to aggregate all the world 's bus providers and routes . We 're sure we do n't know about everything yet , but we 've found a lot of routes . There are several long routes in South and North America based on driving distance measured on google maps . Here are the top contenders for long same-bus trips with no transfers . South America : There are a few documentaries and tv reports about the long direct routes on <URL> where you can see the same coach goes all the way through . 5582 km : Lima , Peru to Buenos Aires , Argentina ( Ormeño ) - Via Santiago , Chile . 5573 km : Lima , Peru to Sao Paulo , Brazil ( Ormeño ) - Via Rio Branco , Acre , Brazil . North America : 4644 km / 85 hours : Los Angles , California , USA to San Salvador , El Salvador ( Usa Tours ) - Once a week via Tijuana , Guadalajara , and Guatemala City . 4607 km / 65 hours : <URL> - via Kansas , Pittsburg and Philadelphia . Impressively , Greyhound runs two of these a day . 3538 km : Saint Paul , Minnesota , USA to Morelia , Michoacán , Mexico ( Transportes Chayo ) . 3435 km / 52 hours : <URL> - All passengers are required to get off the bus for cleaning in Sudbury and Winnipeg amongst other places . 3254 km / 44 hours : <URL> - There are several other buses from Chicago to Mexico but this is the most frequent , at least daily , and the longest we 're sure is a direct bus . Europe : 3631 km : Braunschweig , Germany to Grozny , Chechnya , Russia ( KVN ) - The route is currently a bit longer than normal since it 's detouring around the entire eastern Ukraine through Belarus . 3558 km : Burgas , Bulgaria to Liverpool , England , United Kingdom ( Sofia Bus ) - Via Maribor , Stuttgart , Mannheim , Paris , London , Manchester . Africa 1868 km : Johannesburg , South Africa to Lilongwe , Malawi ( Intercape )
Nothing is going to beat Thalys time-wise and Paris-Nord is n't too far away from the center as far as long-distance " departure points " ( whether airports , train stations or bus terminals ) go . You simply need to combine Thalys with a subway , RER or taxi ride from wherever you find yourself . Even if you could find a bus starting closer to your actual point of departure , it 's going to be much slower . Trains other than the Thalys will also leave from somewhere else and/or require several connections or a long travel time . Both solutions could be considerably cheaper , however . Ridesharing could also be a way to save some money and leave directly from another part of the city than the train station but it requires a lot of flexibility and would not be very fast either so it probably does not meet your requirements . Also , among the main central sights , the Arc de Triomphe and Champs de Mars are already a bit away from the very center of Paris . You could plan your sightseeing to start there in the morning and end up near Châtelet / Les Halles , Saint-Michel -- Notre-Dame , Cité ( close to the île de la Cité , the Louvres or the Tuileries ) or another station on subway line 4 or RER line B or D. Same thing if you intend to see the Grands Boulevards , Montmartre or the Opéra area ; go there last , not before seeing the Champs-Élysées or the 1st arrondissement .
A number of people will tell you different things , but I 'll say Tuesday or Wednesday . Now , there are two parts to this question . Firstly , what day is the cheapest to fly , and then what day is the cheapest to buy . To fly , is generally during the week days , not Monday or Friday as people are coming back / going on trips - leisure or business . Morning/evening flights are more expensive , etc etc. . Now , the key part you 're asking is when do you buy . Firstly , <URL> , and I 've seen personally , that airline ticket prices will often rise on the weekend , then drop again on Monday . The theory being that more people shop for tickets on the weekend . Annoying , but there you go . Now , the best day ? It 's going to be Tuesday or Wednesday , depending on a few factors . <URL> that most airlines tend to release sales on Mondays , Tuesdays , and Wednesdays Tuesday <URL> says in his opinion , booking on Tuesday evenings is ideal . He notes that airlines tend to release fare sales on Tuesday mornings , and if other carriers match , they usually do so by the evening . Fare sales generally end on Fridays , and Morrey says , " In addition , when airlines raise fares , they tend to do this on a weekend , so Saturdays and Sundays [ are ] less attractive . " <URL> , states : The best day to shop for airfare is Tuesday . And let me get even more specific : shop on Tuesday at about 3 p.m. He 's so emphatic about this , that he has an <URL> . Wednesday <URL> : By late Monday , depending on how that new fare is doing in the marketplace , Airline C might jump into the battle and offer an even lower fare , so look for all the other airlines to rush to match that one -- usually by Tuesday -- and the war is on . Prices might go even lower on Wednesday . And that 's when you strike . Wait any longer than Wednesday , and you may be in trouble . The wars usually end by Thursday morning . Why ? Friday is just around the corner ! And the cycle starts all over again . <URL> : Log on to the airline 's website shortly after 12am ( in the airline 's time zone ) on Wednesday night . This is the best day and time of the week to book a flight because this is when most airlines purge their computerized systems of any airline reservations that were not booked . Conclusion So it depends a little on what you 're searching for . For upcoming weekend flights , you should probably consider booking on Wednesdays . For far-ahead ( not this weekend ) flights , the release times described on Tuesdays seems to be the way to go :)
There is a daily train leaving Amsterdam at 20:31 and arriving in Munich at 7:10 the following day . The trains leaves Munich at 22:47 each evening and arrives in Amsterdam at 8:56 . The price very much depends on when you travel , when you book and how much comfort you want to have . <URL> . From Munich you can take a local train to Garmisch-Partenkirchen , at the foot of the Zugspitze . It 's a 90 minutes ride . <URL> . The train continues to Innsbruck . You can consider that as well . In this case , take an accomadation in Innsbruck . There is a small ski resort , the Patscherkofel , accessible from the city center by funicular and cable car . If that 's not enough , you have some nice resorts which can easily be reached by a bus shuttle from Innsbruck , such as the Stubaier Gletscher , Schlick 2000 or Axamer Lizum . This way you can spend a nice skiing weekend without having to renounce to the amenities of a city . The train also calls at Wörgl , from where you have a very quick access to the very nice " Wilder Kaiser " resort . In case you do n't like to take the train , flying from Amsterdam into Munich will probably not ruin you . But it 's much less convenient . From Munich airport to Garmisch-Partenkirchen is more than 2h30 and you have the usual airport hassle . And probably less convenient schedules . The night train allows you to get the most out of your scarce time . If you are francophile , you can consider a flight to Geneva . With Easyjet you will find decent prices . From the Geneva airport you have bus shuttles to plenty of French and Swiss resorts . This will take you 1h30 to 2h00 , depending on the destination . Schedules are available on the homepage of Geneva 's airport . If " cheapness " is an important criterion , prefer France over Switzerland . I would also try to contact local tour operators and travel agencies . Chances are high that they have ready made packages just for short ski trips . Eventually , that might be the most convenient option . You just have to go to the office and book it . They take care of the logistics . It is not necessarily more expensive than if you try to brew something by yourself .
end question
start question
Whaling tours or vacation packages in the West ?
Regarding killing whales : legally , what you 're describing is a very murky grey area ( <URL> ) . You might be breaking international law , you might be breaking your own country 's laws by doing this overseas , you might even be breaking a seldom-enforced law in the country where the tour is operated . For an example of what can happen when someone trusts , as you do , that the local organisers have ensured everything is okay legally and morally , and kills a much-loved animal overseas , see the case of <URL> . It did n't go well for the hunter . Regarding sportingly pursuing whales : there is a very good , 100 % legal alternative , with no killing , harm or even distress to any whales , just a sporting hunt in the " find and seek " sense of the word , then peaceful mammal-to-mammal interaction . This looks like a good option since the asker mentioned they want : Tradition , fun , thrill-seeking , and ... generally awesome ... Catch and release would be fine by me too In Tonga ( English-speaking ) and I believe a few other countries , you can do tours which are like hunting whales , except when you catch up with the whales , instead of blasting them with an explosive harpoon which frankly ca n't miss because you 're aiming at a frigging whale ( in terms of challenge , surely the sporting equivalent of kicking a ball into the side of a barn ) , you jump out the boat with a pair of fins and a snorkel and swim with the whales . Mammal to mammal , minimal technology . If that does n't sound awesome , check out the final scene from the " Mammals " episode of BBC 's Planet Earth series , where you see the boat crew and underwater camera crew chasing humpback whales in Tonga . I ca n't currently watch video but <URL> ( feel free to edit in a better link ) . If it 's tradition you want , I 'd firmly recommend the way I did this , which is from <URL> . The owner of this private island has a motorised canoe based on the traditional design that the first Polynesians used to colonise this part of the South Pacific - those ancient Polynesians knew what they were doing , and it 's faster and quieter than the other whale boats around ( as well as very stylish ) . He also has 100 % traditional sailing canoes and is an expert sailor , but it 'd take a long long time to catch a whale the 100 % traditional way . You 'll go with a Tongan navigator who knows all the traditional tricks for reading the seas and working out where a whale may pop up next . It 's very difficult , and it makes for great sport . ( certainly , a more honest sporting challenge than using radar then blasting one of the world 's biggest mammals with an exploding harpoon ) Then you have to be ready to jump in the open sea at a moment 's notice when you finally catch up with a whale . Usually there will be two or three whales together ( mother , calf and male escort is pretty common ) , and , if you can keep up with them , you 'll get an unforgettable half hour or so diving underwater , watching them in their natural habitat , swimming up to the surface as they do to see them breach , etc. . Whale calves are quite curious too , you might get a little unforgettable interaction as a van-sized baby whale swims up to take a closer look at you . If you do want to kill things too ... Well , that 's still an option . The owner of the island is a keen spear-fisher , and has a dog who 's trained to bark when suitable fish swim close to shore . There 's excellent snorkelling all around the island , and if you can convince him that you know what you 're doing with a spear-fishing gun , I 'm sure he 'll point you in the right direction to hunt your supper . ( not whales though , that 's very very illegal ) Regarding ethics , some organisations speculate that whale-swimming trips might alter whale behaviour , and so in Tonga , to protect the whales , there 's a law that you ca n't go too close to the whales . It was 30m when I went , might have changed - but in those crystal-clear waters , that 's easily close enough , and frankly , going closer than this unless you 're a trained professional would be very dangerous anyway .
Regarding killing whales : legally , what you 're describing is a very murky grey area ( <URL> ) . You might be breaking international law , you might be breaking your own country 's laws by doing this overseas , you might even be breaking a seldom-enforced law in the country where the tour is operated . For an example of what can happen when someone trusts , as you do , that the local organisers have ensured everything is okay legally and morally , and kills a much-loved animal overseas , see the case of <URL> . It did n't go well for the hunter . Regarding sportingly pursuing whales : there is a very good , 100 % legal alternative , with no killing , harm or even distress to any whales , just a sporting hunt in the " find and seek " sense of the word , then peaceful mammal-to-mammal interaction . This looks like a good option since the asker mentioned they want : Tradition , fun , thrill-seeking , and ... generally awesome ... Catch and release would be fine by me too In Tonga ( English-speaking ) and I believe a few other countries , you can do tours which are like hunting whales , except when you catch up with the whales , instead of blasting them with an explosive harpoon which frankly ca n't miss because you 're aiming at a frigging whale ( in terms of challenge , surely the sporting equivalent of kicking a ball into the side of a barn ) , you jump out the boat with a pair of fins and a snorkel and swim with the whales . Mammal to mammal , minimal technology . If that does n't sound awesome , check out the final scene from the " Mammals " episode of BBC 's Planet Earth series , where you see the boat crew and underwater camera crew chasing humpback whales in Tonga . I ca n't currently watch video but <URL> ( feel free to edit in a better link ) . If it 's tradition you want , I 'd firmly recommend the way I did this , which is from <URL> . The owner of this private island has a motorised canoe based on the traditional design that the first Polynesians used to colonise this part of the South Pacific - those ancient Polynesians knew what they were doing , and it 's faster and quieter than the other whale boats around ( as well as very stylish ) . He also has 100 % traditional sailing canoes and is an expert sailor , but it 'd take a long long time to catch a whale the 100 % traditional way . You 'll go with a Tongan navigator who knows all the traditional tricks for reading the seas and working out where a whale may pop up next . It 's very difficult , and it makes for great sport . ( certainly , a more honest sporting challenge than using radar then blasting one of the world 's biggest mammals with an exploding harpoon ) Then you have to be ready to jump in the open sea at a moment 's notice when you finally catch up with a whale . Usually there will be two or three whales together ( mother , calf and male escort is pretty common ) , and , if you can keep up with them , you 'll get an unforgettable half hour or so diving underwater , watching them in their natural habitat , swimming up to the surface as they do to see them breach , etc. . Whale calves are quite curious too , you might get a little unforgettable interaction as a van-sized baby whale swims up to take a closer look at you . If you do want to kill things too ... Well , that 's still an option . The owner of the island is a keen spear-fisher , and has a dog who 's trained to bark when suitable fish swim close to shore . There 's excellent snorkelling all around the island , and if you can convince him that you know what you 're doing with a spear-fishing gun , I 'm sure he 'll point you in the right direction to hunt your supper . ( not whales though , that 's very very illegal ) Regarding ethics , some organisations speculate that whale-swimming trips might alter whale behaviour , and so in Tonga , to protect the whales , there 's a law that you ca n't go too close to the whales . It was 30m when I went , might have changed - but in those crystal-clear waters , that 's easily close enough , and frankly , going closer than this unless you 're a trained professional would be very dangerous anyway .
The National Park Service has an arrangement where only a single company is granted an exclusive franchise to travel to or take guests to Alcatraz . Therefore , if you want to go to Alcatraz , there is only one company you can travel with , and private boats are forbidden . <URL> : Tickets for the Ferry to Alcatraz are available at the Alcatraz Cruises website , but they sell out fast so buy in advance . There are a few other websites when you search , but I ca n't vouch for any of them . What you could do to confirm is to call Alcatraz Cruises Box office : +1 415 981-7625 , or email them ( info@alcatrazcruises.com ) . However , even when I was in San Francisco last year , tickets were sold out online and it was n't possible to buy them in person on the day . However , that was Fleet Week , so your mileage may vary on a different week . I 'd drop them a line and see what your options are .
Accommodation in Stanley includes numerous bed and breakfasts as well as a handful of hotels . You can have a look at weather conditions for the Falkland Islands on <URL> . Several <URL> in the main town of Stanley as well . Visa requirements will differ depending on what passport you have . However , you can look at <URL> , which indicates that for a visitor visa at least , for example , New Zealanders do n't require a visa to visit :) For WORKING , however , I have a few sources of information for you : <URL> from the Government , including pension schemes and the like . From the <URL> , they indicate that for visas , you should contact as follows : To apply for a visa to visit the Falkland Islands , please contact the Falkland Islands Government Office in London ( +44 20 7222 2542 or Reception@falklands.gov.fk ) to request a visa form .
As a tour operator , my first advice is to skip the international airfare component , as the moment you tell everyone you have a deal on Delta , Uncle Joe will say he wants United for points and cousin Ellie will say she wants LAN to use her credit card points . Plus if they are starting in different cities , it becomes a nightmare . And group rates are n't any cheaper than discounted airfares . Concentrate on the destination package , hotels , airport meet &amp; greets , transfers , local flights , plus meals if you wish . Two ways to go about it , contact your favorite travel agencies near home asking for some prices or go direct to an inbound agency at the destination . They both have pluses and minuses . Your local travel agency will be more expensive as they need to add in something for their time and work , but they maybe easier for your guests to pay . The destination agency will be more economical and knowledgeable , but may require you to collect all payments and wire it or perhaps can accept direct credit card payments .
While ( as I commented above ) this is highly subjective , let me give you some general calculation : Your 3000 EUR are roughly 390 ' 000 Yen . The very very decent version I chose the <URL> for location and took the smallest single room there for 15 ' 500 per day ( 16 ' 500 on Sundays ) for overall 218 ' 000 Yen . If have breakfast in a Sarbucks you spend about 1000 Yen , so another 14 ' 000 Yen is gone . Let 's take 1 ' 500 Yen for lunch , so 21 ' 000 Yen for the week and good quality 8 ' 000 Yen for dinner in average which makes 112 ' 000 Yen . All in all this will make 365 ' 000 Yen . This will leave you with 25 ' 000 Yen for subways and souvenirs etc. . The issue here is that you might run into taking taxis ( no trains late at night ) which are somewhat expensive and other stuff , so you might run into a shortage in the end . Careful planning is important on this budget . Also taxes etc might be a very tight fit for this but if you manage your costs properly and balance a bit for some days you can have a very decent high-class stay in Japan for 3k Eur . The budget version Cheaper version would be a cheaper hotel like the <URL> for about 6 ' 000 a night coming to 86 ' 000 for the 14 nights.Breakfast at a convenience store for 500 Yen ( 7 ' 000 ) , a budget lunch for another 1 ' 000 ( 14 ' 000 ) and a much more reasonable dinner for 5 ' 000 ( 70 ' 000 ) will get you there with 177 ' 000 Yen spent . You can check some average prices in restaurants <URL> and <URL> to get an overview . Note : There is <URL> for Tokyo Metros . The minimum is 1 month and costs 17 ' 300 Yen - which does not make sense for you .
Probably , <URL> is the best known walking tour in Boston . It is a 2.5 mile walk . You can book a tour , but you can also easily download the map and follow the trail by yourself . The best resource is probably the <URL> web page . They have dozens of free <URL> that you can use to follow some predefined walks .
Limits as to the amount of luggage you can take is usually governed by two principles : You must be able to carry your luggage by yourself . Your luggage must not hinder other passengers or safe exits from the train . Special rules exist for large luggage , such as bicycles . Those can normally only be taken if explicitly allowed . But simple suitcases and backpacks are only limited by the principles I listed above . The rules in theory probably differ per country and even per train company , but in practice the above is true in all countries where I have travelled by train ( Norway , Sweden , Denmark , Germany , Netherlands , Belgium , France , Spain , Switzerland , Italy , Austria ) . The only problematic situation I have encountered is when everybody in a small night-train compartment had a lot of luggage and people were forced to take luggage on their bed ( but normally one can get away with simply storing luggage on the floor once everybody has gone to bed ) .
You have to follow both , i.e. stay at most 28 days at some time between 02/08/2015 and 13/09/2015 . Therefore , you can not stay longer than 28 days on this visa in any event and if you have not used your 28 days by the 13th of September , you must leave anyway . You also have to respect the number of entries , which means that if you enter some time in August and leave a few days later , you can not use this visa anymore and you lose the benefit of the rest of the maximum period of stay . 09/08/2015 to 05/09/2015 is indeed 28 days and within the period of validity of your visa , so that 's fine . In principle , the conditions of your visa should be based on the information you submitted with your application and allow you to complete your trip as intended . The validity is typically a little longer to give you some flexibility .
Flights to Puerto Rico are considered domestic flights , and US Citizens do not need a passport to travel between the US and any US territories . However , foreign citizens do need a passport to travel between the two , ( see <URL> ) so I ca n't say for certain how a trip like that will affect your Green Card eligibility . Your best bet is to check with an immigration official .
Definitely not Ukrainian If you know Russian AND English you will be able to communicate with the vast majority of people . Now choosing the language to try first is a little bit tricky . I would say that with people who are definitely under 30 try English first . With people over 40 try Russian first . In Riga ( not sure about the rest of Latvia ) almost everyone speaks Russian on some level . Most Latvians there speak extremely good Russian . In Estonia it 's hit and miss but I would try English first . I 've experienced unwillingness to speak ( or even understand ) Russian from people who , I would assume , should at least understand it . But these are obviously anecdotal cases . Not sure about Lithuania since I live here and never experienced the issue first hand ( since I speak Lithuanian ) . From what I see , majority of 20-30 year-olds do n't speak and quite often do n't understand Russian . So I would definitely try English first with younger people . Most of the 40 + population knows Russian on some level . Willingness to use it varies from person to person , though , but I would n't say that these days there 's any serious bias towards pretending not to understand it . A lot of older people would n't understand English though .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
Mark 's answer is right , I just want to add some useful references for you . If you are in Russia , you can use the map engine from biggest Russian search provider , Yandex : <URL> ( <URL> ) . They works perfectly on mobile , so this is quite useful for you . They are similar to GoogleMaps , but are much more detailed for Russian cities . For example , Yekaterinburg : <URL> Another reason to use such engine is an easy search for anything you need in travel : <URL> Blue dots are small hotels , blue circles are medium hotels , purple circles are paid advertisers , I think . Green letters are metro-stations so you can easily get to any hotel you need : <URL> If you interested in some mobile application similar to Maps.Yandex , I recommend you <URL> . It can get your location and show interesting places around you . I works even without Internet connection , so sometimes is very useful : <URL>
Crossing into the West Bank itself is simply a matter of continuing on whatever road you were already on and passing a check point , ( though usually they are only checking anyone going the other way ) and it 's perfectly doable with an Israeli taxi , or any one else willing to take you there for that matter . Furthermore , it 's just as doable to procede from there into an Israeli settlement ; it 's just like driving into any other town . However , I would recommend finding out the best way to get there in advance from the person who lives there , as many roads can be much more safe than others . It is also perfectly possible to return to the fully recognized part of Israel , this time through an actual checkpoint , again in any Israeli vehicle . Whether you will have to pre - arrange depends on where you are ; your host will likely know local taxi options . However , for a journey to Tel Aviv it may be a good idea to pre-book regardless . In terms of general safety , both day and night it depends where exactly you are . But in all cases most likely people living there will say it 's safe enough for them to travel . At the same time there are other places that are probably statistically safer to be , so it really is up to your comfort level . This is another question that would be best for your host who is likely familiar with the exact roads you will be on . ( Also , obviously a taxi from Tel Aviv will cost quite a bit ) Getting to Palestinian towns from the west bank will be very different , as Israeli taxis will not go there , and there may be more security checks on the way in and/or out of the towns/cities . You will have to take an Israeli car into the west bank as above and then transfer somewhere to Palestinian transportation .
Short answer - as best as I can find : No . However this does n't mean there wo n't be . Historically book tours that exist have tended to only appear once a movie exists . While Harry Potter existed in book form , platform 9 and 3/4 at Kings Cross only appeared after movies featured it , and Lord of the Rings tours in New Zealand obviously only appeared to show filming locations ( as obviously there 's no real middle earth to tour ) . The best option aside from doing your own might be ( if you had the cash ) to approach a custom tour company in the regions and ask them to create one for you .
Here are 2 sample companies organizing these trips as a group tour : <URL> <URL> There are several different places to see , such as the DMZ with its fences , some tunnels and the border crossings of course . Because of the many different combination of locations that you can see in a half-day or full-day course , the prices also vary a lot , between 40-100 USD . If you want to have something more personalized , you can also <URL> , but of course the price will be in a different dimension ( up to 500 USD/person , less if there are more people ) . There is also the option of being <URL> instead of a professional guide . The price of 450 USD for a 8 hour is for a whole group . If you read the descriptions , you will see that some of them involve hiking , some are very short and others take a whole day . So I would suggest you decide how much time you want to spend and how much money to make a selection .
Actually it seems that the ticket distribution moved to Members of Congress only to combat <URL> going back to Clinton era . And then under George W. Bush under the claim that <URL> : '' The White House welcomes large numbers of visitors , consistent with previous administrations , '' said the White House spokesman , Ari Fleischer . '' The tours are free . We discourage the practice of having vendors or outside groups make a profit by charging unsuspecting tourists , including any tour that would charge money for access to the White House even as part of a larger tour . '' The unguided tours were still allowed on a first come first served basis by waiting in line : They recommend that visitors get their feet in the front door by standing in line at the White House Visitors ' Center ( the line sometimes starts before 5 a.m. ) or by contacting their representatives in Congress , who receive tickets for guided tours for their constituents . ( The public tours are unguided . ) You can take a look at <URL> which has a lot of good references on the changes to tours over the years but ticket distribution went completely to Members of Congress in 2003 as an additional " security " measure following the 9/11 attacks .
If you pay by Dollar ( or home currency ) The hotel will add a charge for this , hence you will be paying more . If you pay by local currency the exchange rate will be decided by the credit card company or bank . These exchange rates are much better than the hotel rates . <URL> for more information regarding this service for Visa holders . AFAIK , Other companies have similar services so this applies to all other credit cards .
Books are heavier , period . Your typical cheap-ass perfect-bound B&amp;W 300-page airport paperback detective/romance novel <URL> . A nice hardback or a big chunky guidebook will be more : <URL> is over 1 kg , and a 500-page ream of A4 printing paper is well over 2 kg ! A T-shirt occupies roughly the same volume as that paperback , but even a nice heavy cotton <URL> will only top the scales around 250 grams . ( Note that T-shirt weights are per square meter , and you need > 1.5 m2 for a short-sleeved shirt . ) Now I 'm sure you can construct a pathological case where a suitcase stuffed full of steel-toed Doc Martens and studded denim weighs more than a suitcase filled with the airiest pulp novels known to man , but in general , if you 're looking to lose weight , chuck the books first -- and get e-books instead . <URL> are also a surprisingly cheap way of shipping printed material around the planet .
Recreation.gov lists camping and RV sites at U.S. national parks , forests and other federal land . The nightly fee shown is per site , and you 're allowed up to the maximum number of people shown for that site . ( I 've stayed at quite a few of these campgrounds . ) When you actually go to book your campsite , the web site will tell you the maximum number of people allowed to camp on the campsite . Your fee covers that many people . If you want more people than are covered by a single campsite , you 'll need to book an additional campsite . Note that at this particular campground , <URL> and allow up to 8 people . If you were planning to do tent camping , you may find that space for your tent is limited , as these sites are listed as having a gravel surface . If you 're RV camping , check the details for each specific site before you book , as some will accommodate longer vehicles and some only shorter vehicles . In other national parks and forests you 'll find tent sites , or a mix of tent and RV sites . A sample listing from Yosemite National Park : <URL> . When you check in , the person who booked the campsite must be present and show photo ID . Also be aware that sites within National Parks will almost always have a separate entrance fee to enter the park , while most National Forests do not have entrance fees . This is usually around $ 20 per car but it varies by park . This particular one is in a national forest which does n't have an entrance fee , but it 's something to be aware of . If you plan to visit several national parks you may find buying an $ 80 <URL> is cost effective for covering the entrance fees , and the ( senior and disabled ) passes also sometimes give you other park services for free or at a discount . You can buy one in advance , or get one " at the door " at the first national park you visit .
end question
start question
How long is a typical CouchSurfing stay ?
People in CS can tell on their profile which is the maximum number of nights they want to host , so I think that filtering on that you will be able to identify the kind of hosts that fit your travelling policy . In my personal experience , being member of CS since the beginning of 2009 and living in Pisa ( so , a lot of requests every day ) , people ask for 1 to 3 nights so , yes , it is unusual to stay for more than 3 days . Of course this can depends on the nature of the city : Rome is not visitable in just two days while Pisa is . Moreover , it is not unusual for people to ask to be hosted several times , usually at the beginning and at the end of a trip . That 's what happened with some Americans I hosted when they landed in Pisa and at the end of their travel through Italy before taking the plane back .
A typical Japanese breakfast consists of rice , <URL> , pickled vegetables and/or salad , fish , and possibly poached/cooked egg or <URL> . The price for this kind of breakfast starts at around 400 yen ( at a family hotel or cheap restaurant ) . Lunch might be out of a <URL> ( with contents quite similar to the breakfast minus the soup ) , or in a restaurant it might be some sort of <URL> or <URL> , or a <URL> combination of main dish , rice and soup . Expect to pay between 500 and 1000 yen . A very traditional dinner would again have rice and miso soup and pickles , plus several main dishes including <URL> and multiple types of fish or other seafood , or meat ( thought strictly speaking , meat is traditionally not eaten at all ) . But there is also a large variety of specialty dishes that often constitute a full meal : Sushi / Sashimi Sukiyaki / <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc. . All of these vary wildly in price , from below 1000 yen up to 10,000 yen and more at high-class restaurants . And of course , many Japanese also like foreign food , be it Chinese , French , Italian or Indian .
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
I 've done the Pamir Highway in the summer of 2014 . It 's hard to answer the question how long it takes because it 's not a road for getting from A to B but it 's an experience in itself and you may want to spend as long as you can up there . There are several points to think about before heading out : Which route ? do you want to take , there are several options from Khorog , you can go south along the Afghan border to the Wakhan valley and then turn north to join the M41 . You can go north via the Bartang River or along the Shokh Dara valley . The most direct route is to leave Khorog on the M41 and stay on it all the way to Osh in Kyrgyzstan . I think all of them are worth taking , you could do the Southern loop and come back to Khorog and then do the M41 . How to travel ? , the easiest way is to hire a jeep with a driver . This will be expensive , if you can find other people to form a group , it may be affordable , I was originally planning to do this , but never found more than one other person to join me . Using shared taxis ( usually SUVs , but also old Opels ) only gets you so far . You can get from Khorog to Ishkashim , or Murgab to Sary Tash , but you have to be very lucky to find them in the remote areas of the Pamirs , there are just not enough people travelling there . You can try to hitch , usually all cars and mini-buses still charge you something . On the M41 between Khorog and Murgab there are a few trucks every hour going to China . I hitched with several of them and they never wanted money . But in the Wakhan valley and between Murgab and Kyrgyzstan there are no trucks and very few cars . I remember one morning waiting at the side of the road not seeing a car for four hours either way . And finally you can cycle or walk . I started walking early in the morning and by 11 am when it got really hot I started hitching until I reached the next place with a homestay . How often to stop ? Besides Khorog only Murgab has one hotel . There are basic guest houses in Eshkashim and Jelandy , but otherwise it 's all homestays and there are not so many villages on the way . The tourist office in Khorog has a list of homestays , but I never used it . Whenever I got to a village it was easy to find a family that would take me in . There are many places to stop and do side trips on the way . Lots of hiking opportunities . I spent 17 days in the Pamir region , not long enough . If you have a hired jeep you can make it in two or three days from Khorog to Osh , but then you would n't stop much .
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
The very next day , if you can convince the border agent that you 're using your visa for the appropriate means , and are n't trying to ' live ' there instead . They 're going to wonder what took 141 days and now needs more . If you 're backpacking across the country , say , they can see evidence of your travels and you can show that say , you were now heading up to Churchill to see the polar bears and therefore need another few weeks . They 're going to want to know how long you 're going for this time , and what you 're planning on doing . It gets a bit more unclear if you 're a digital nomad like yourself . Technically you 're working for a US company from Canada . Some countries and guards can be very iffy on that . Essentially , they may see it as you living and earning money there , benefiting from their roads and so on , without paying and Canadian taxes . And that 's not approved . However , if you provide them with your business address and show that you 're travelling as a tourist as well , it might be deemed more acceptable . Short version : You 're going to have to convince the border agent that you 're not living there tax-free , but are a bona-fide visitor , there for normal visitor reasons , who plans on returning to the US where you live . EDIT : Indeed , from the <URL> : To visit Canada , you must : have a valid travel document , such as a passport , be in good health , convince an immigration officer that you have ties -- such as a job , home , financial assets or family -- that will take you back to your home country , convince an immigration officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your visit , and have enough money for your stay . ( The amount of money you will need can vary . it depends on things like how long you will stay , and whether you will stay in a hotel or with friends or relatives . ) I 've highlighted the key bit . If it 's apparent or seems that your plan is just to keep re-entering Canada , they may well disqualify you . Indeed , when I lived in Vancouver I had a friend from Utah who went to renew her visa , and was seen to be ' living ' there ( She was actually trying to move to Vancouver long term , just did things in the wrong order ) and was given 2 days to pack up and leave . So basically , that 's what your entry request will be tested against .
For a short term visit of less than six months , <URL> . In addition , there are special circumstances surrounding <URL> , such as tuberculosis , HIV , yellow fever , polio , and Ebola . In particular , the following are said about tuberculosis and polio : If you are applying for a temporary visa you may be asked to undergo tuberculosis testing on a risk management basis . Applicants will be asked to provide a polio vaccination certificate if applying for a visa from outside of Australia if : you have spent 28 days or longer in Afghanistan , Cameroon , Equatorial Guinea , Ethiopia , Iraq , Nigeria , Pakistan , Somalia or Syria , or in any combination of these countries , on or after 5 May 2014 Was it clear on your visa application that you would only be there for three days ?
As vclaw said you can use OpenStreetMap Data to find postboxes . An easy way to achieve this would be to use the Overpass API to download a GPX file and to add this to you GPSr . I prepared a sample query for Vienna and postboxes <URL> . As you can see , you can export the data in different formats , one of them is GPX . Change the coordinates for other cities or the whole EU and maybe try to add <URL> if you like .
Check out <URL> . It can help you to plan a trip including transportations , activities , logging , daily trips , or any idea/notes you may have . It allows you to write down ideas without specifying dates and times . But you can definitely plan those specific timings when you 're ready . Hope this helps . Edit : Mindmapping softwares like <URL> might also work for you . But they are not specific for trip planning .
The scheme for Iranians to visit Georgia visa-free was <URL> . Unless they qualify for <URL> , Iranian citizens now need a visa ( which can be <URL> ) . This arose from two issues : First , the USA suggesting to Georgia that they should not let Iranians come into the country so easily ; and second , Georgia 's long-term desire to eventually become an EU member state . <URL> : 30 days visa-free entry for those born in Georgia but who are not citizens ; 90 in 180 days for those holding a valid visa or residence permit for a Schengen member state , or for Australia , Bahrain , Bermuda , British Virgin Islands , Canada , Cayman Islands , Falkland Islands , Gibraltar , Israel , Japan , Kuwait , New Zealand , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Turks and Caicos Islands , USA , or United Arab Emirates . Given the contents of this list , it 's quite possible that your Iranian friend already has such a visa .
You 'll find that it varies from host to host , and this is often indicated on their profile . Some are excited to meet new people , but ca n't actually host - so they 'll often just say they want to meet you in town for a coffee or similar . Others will have a bed and a spare room , and can be amazingly generous . However they do understand that you 're travelling , are on a budget , and while they may want to show you around the city , they 'll also ( usually ) be keen to help you enjoy your time while on your budget . Some just want a new person to talk to in the evenings , while others will take you around . I 'd suggest signing up , creating a profile , and then looking around at some of the profiles in the cities you wish to visit . It 'll give you an idea of what they 're looking for in a guest - often they 'll say in their profiles that perhaps they just wish to practise a new language , or they like meeting new people . As for bringing a gift or taking them to dinner - do whatever feels comfortable , and do n't force them into it either . Some cultures it 's very important to treat a person when they come to your city/house , while others it 's customary to bring something - that will depend on where you go , and is probably a topic for another question . ;)
I have the <URL> : The maximum length of stay in Europe for non European Union passport holders is determined by the Schengen accord and is currently limited to 90 days within any 180 day period . The important thing to note is that you may not leave the Schengen Visa area for a day and return to restart the 90 day clock . In other words , you must be absent from the Schengen area for at least 90 days in a 180 day period to be legal . So if you friend has a multiple entry visa for 5 years , he can stay a maximum of approximately 5 * 180 days ( Stay 90 days , be absent for 90 days , and that for 5 years ) . It is n't allowed to stay longer but I heard that those rules are rarely enforced and penalized , but if you 're friend looks really that dodgy it might be better to not risk it ;)
It depends on if you are a visitor or if you are a Californian resident . Visitors are allowed to use their foreign driver 's licence without limitation . If you become a resident of California , you must obtain a Californa driver 's license within 10 days . Source : <URL>
As a tall person with an ideal weight , you should n't worry about the width of the seat . What you should worry about is the pitch of the seat , which will give you a better idea of the leg room . If you wonder <URL> : Seat Pitch is the distance from any point on one seat to the exact same point on the seat in front or behind it . While it is not the exact equivalent of " legroom " , it does give a very good approximation of how much seat room you should expect . Bottom line : the more seat pitch the better . China airline 's 777 in economy has a seat pitch of a 32 " , which is pretty standard in many regular airlines around the world ( ± 1 " ) . Is it comfortable ? not really for a guy your height , but almost all other airlines have similar seat sizes and your best option is to get a seat in the emergency exit row where leg room is much better . Other option would be upgrading yourself to premium economy or business .
Assuming that you have the right to enter the Schengen area without any additional hassle , 10 hours is more than enough to go to the center , hang out there , even do some sightseeing in case you 've never been to Munich before , then return and safely catch your onward flight . There 's a direct <URL> connection to the airport that takes around 40-45 minutes from the center . Getting out of the airport is pretty fast , I assume it would take you around 15-20 minutes on a normal day . Obviously you should reserve more time for security checks and that sort of stuff for entering the airport later on , but 2 hours before your flight departure time is very much on the safe side , you usually need much less than that . If you 're 100 % cautious , it will still leave you more than 5 hours in central Munich . It 's a pretty city , I would recommend visiting in case it 's your first time and you have the necessary documents to enter the Schengen area .
Your passport qualifies to <URL> if you prefer . It costs a little less in the short run , but you will have to mail your passport with the application form . Although I was not able to find any info specifically on <URL> about this topic , any restrictions on how early you can renew are conspicuously absent . Information on various US embassy pages from other countries also suggests that you can renew at any time : From <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may apply to renew your U.S. passport at any time . From : <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may <URL> at any time before or after it expires .
I have never heard of CountryLink offering compensation for delayed trains/buses , and I have certainly never received any compensation for such delays ( including one delay of around 6 hours , although that was probably 15 years ago ! ) The CountryLink XPT fleet is aging , with some trains being over 30 years old despite only having an expected operating life of 25 years . Whilst in my experience extensive delays are not common , they certainly do occur .
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
<URL> and <URL> are two services often used to find accommodation hosted by locals . Airbnb accommodation is paid and varies from mansions to hay bales . By specifying " Shared room " or " Private room " in your search , you can often find rooms , mattresses , etc. in apartments or houses occupied by locals . The degree of interaction with your host depends on the specific stay ; reading descriptions and reviews will help you find the experience you want . Couchsurfing is free of charge , but guests are expected to contribute a reasonable amount in terms of conversation , chores , maybe a gift , etc ( leave your accommodation nicer than you found it ) . You can probably find the homestay experience you 're looking for on either site , the difference being that , because of Airbnb 's cost , its hosts will generally expect slightly less in terms of nonmonetary contribution from guests ( although gifts , conversation , and helping with chores are certainly welcome ) . On the whole , accommodation from either site will be safe and pleasant ; as with any part of the sharing economy , reviews and ratings provide information you can use to increase your chances of a positive experience .
end question
start question
How much clothing should I wear to keep warm in Hong Kong ?
I would suggest a thin jacket to protect you from cold wind and a thin sweater that you can put over whatever you are wearing . Both together should protect you enough . The temperature might drop end of December/January some more so the later you come the colder it gets , sometimes down to 8 degrees . Right now it 's 25 for example . What I have to tell you however is that you will never get a good answer to that . I know people from South India who wear woolen hats and winter jackets when it 's below 30 degrees . And I see enough people in Hong Kong that wear shorts &amp; t-shirts when it 's 10 degrees in Hong Kong . So you will have to make your own decisions . It also highly matters where you are going , what you do and where you stay . Feeling cold is not a matter of being outside in Hong Kong . Homes and offices are usually colder than hotels and restaurants . Homes have often very thin windows and few have heaters and offices have maybe good insulated windows but a central aircon that can not heat and will blow cool air the whole day . That makes them colder than outside in cases . I know enough people who walk around in thick jackets in the office and sometimes at home during the days where it 's below 15 degrees . Outdoors it also depends what you are doing ... hiking , walking around , sitting somewhere ...
Your passport is an important document and it should be kept safe at all times . One of the best ways in general is not to have it with you but keep it in the hotel safe . This varies by location and in some places , it is safer with you . In Singapor , crime is very low and there should not be a problem to have it with you . My strategy is to keep a photocopy of the important passport page with me . That copy is folded up and takes very little space . It is not an official document but has enough information to show who I am . Note that in some countries you have the obligation to keep a piece of identification with you at all times . For a foreigner , this often means the passport but not necesarily . Any travel book of the location you are going to usually references the rule but to have the official word , consult the embassy .
Obviously " best " is always subjective and depends on the particular person , but ... Having done 1-day stopover trips in Hong Kong a few times over the past few years ( including a 22 hour stopover there 2 weeks ago ! ) , my vote would be for the area on one side or other of Victoria Harbour - either the Kowloon/Nathan road area on the north side , or Causeway Bay/Connaught Road area on the south . Both of these areas have excellent access to the Airport via either the Airport train ( quicker and more predictable , but a little more expensive at HK$ 100 each way ) or via bus . Both have access to the harbour , including various tourist favorites like the Star Ferry , The Peak Tram , shopping on Nathan Road , the Temple Street Night Market , etc. . Public transport in Hong Kong is very easy to use , and regardless of which side of the harbour you end up on getting between the two sides is easy . Taxi 's are also relatively cheap - a trip up to a few kilometres will cost you only HK$ 20 ( about USD$ 2.50 ) so even if your hotel is n't right next to the train stations it 's easy to get around . There are obviously countless other areas of Hong Kong you could visit , but unless you 've been there before and already seen the sites around the harbour area then I would n't suggest going anywhere else - especially given your limited time on the ground . If there 's a negative about this area ( and all of HK to some extent ) it 's that hotels can be relatively expensive . There are cheap options available , but make sure you read up on the reviews on sites like TripAdvisor as some of them can be fairly poor quality . Unless you 're staying in a 4 + star hotel you can expect to get a small room little larger than a bed , most likely without a window - but for such a short trip that should be all you need !
While there are many calendaring apps / services that show public holiday information , this in itself may not be enough information to judge whether it will affect your travel . Public services may be shut ... but sometimes holidays themselves can be part of your trip because it 's something unique to each country 's culture . The best way to find out the impact of this is to read an actual ( paper / digital guidebook ) and / or <URL> . Having said that , there a couple of tips : <URL> as opposed to solar cycles . This means that holiday dates fall on different ' modern ' calendar days each year . Guidebooks are unlikely to give you specific information about each year , so you 'll need to check the specific dates for each year separarely . However , guidebooks will give you information on what date ranges a particular holiday falls on ( usually , within a two-month period for events based on lunar calendars ) and how that impacts services . For much of Muslim majority countries of the world , the fasting month of <URL> results in food establishments to be shut during daylight hours . This is a helpful tip because it 's generic to many countries and it helps to be prepared for this ! Usually though , unless you 're in a small town , there will be restaurants or eateries that stay open just for the tourist market .
Definitely on Friday , come as soon as possible . Once the weekend starts and people come from work or school ( Friday from 16:00 on ) , it gets packed very quickly . People start lining up overnight to get the best stuff anyhow . You can assume that once the prices go down , the good things will be gone , too . The visitor numbers have been increasing massively over the years , so be prepared for a VERY packed convention center . If I remember correctly I have been there 2 years ago on Sunday and it felt more like a plucked chicken then anything else . Also , most of the exhibits there ( apart from hardware ) was geared towards Chinese/HKG anime , not so much ( as far as I could tell ) Japanese/International stuff . It can be however that this changed since then since the fair expanded quite a lot since then .
According to <URL> , a Hong Kong citizen does not require a visa to visit Russian for up to 14 days , even if they are a resident of Canada . Note that you will require an onward ticket in order to be granted entry . In general , residency does not affect visa requirements , however it 's always a good idea to check .
Simple answer : It depends ! In general , in physics , pressure on shorter structures has less chances of bending/breaking them . For exmaple , you can bend a metal stick of 1m length easier than a nail of the same diameter . So if you have pressure coming from above , the shortest edges should be vertical to maximise the resistance against the pressure . If you have a smaller luggage , the difference in centimeter between the various sides is smaller and therefore it does not matter so much which side it is on . Chances are high that the luggage will lie on top of others , or that luggages on top will be larger and therefore the pressure will not be on a small spot in a large surface but rather covering the whole surface of your luggage and thus the pressure is on the outer frame which is more stable than the center of the surface . However if you have a very large ( and thin ) luggage , you might not want to lie it on the larger surface since chances are high that a luggage lying on top is smaller and therefore not putting pressure on the more stable outer edges of the frame but on the softer center of the cover . The luggage might deform over time .
No contest : baby sling . Wikivoyage has an article about <URL> , and the bit about travelling in dense Japanese cities applies to Hong Kong as well : In a nutshell , leave your giant stroller at home , as they can be a nightmare to deal with . City sidewalks are busy , temple and shrine paths are nearly invariably gravel , trains are crowded ( impossibly so in rush hour ) , and while elevators are slowly being retrofitted everywhere , there are still many stations where you 'll need to use the stairs or take long detours to use the one elevator available . [ ... ] Instead , the Japanese prefer baby carriers , often for children as old as two , and lightweight collapsible umbrella strollers that fit through normal ticket gates and can be carried up or down a flight of stairs one-handed in a pinch . In my own experience , umbrella strollers are handy , but require two adults to comfortably operate : eg . one climbs up stairs with baby , the other carries stroller , diaper bag , suitcase , etc. . A 6-month-old is also a bit borderline to use one for longer periods of time , try it out before you take one along . And yes , September will be hot . If you 're feeling uncomfortably hot , the baby will be feeling so as well . Fortunately virtually everything in HK is air-conditioned .
$ 350 HK for a 4 working day one . I did this last week , Monday afternoon to Thursday noon . 2 entries is 100 more . The agency I used is <URL> , the standard price is $ 450 , but you can print out a $ 100 discount coupon from their website and bring it along when you pick up the visa and pay . I was in China for 60 days last year , for this reason they said a new visa may be refused , but in my case was n't . It may be helpful if you have a second passport .
As much as you 'd like . But , if it 's a real lot , you might need to declare it . <URL> amounts exceeding EUR 10,000 . - or more or the equivalent in another currency ( incl . banker 's draft and cheques of any kind ) must be declared . <URL> amounts exceeding USD 5,000 . - ( or equivalent ) in cash , or USD 10,000 . - ( or equivalent ) in traveller 's cheques must be declared ; Local currency ( Indian Rupee-INR ) : Import of INR is prohibited , except for residents of India importing up to INR 7,500 . - Foreign currencies include currency notes , traveller 's cheques , cheques , drafts etc. . Edit : for future readers , make sure to check when this answer was updated last as I personally expect these numbers to be lowered soon-ish .
You should encounter absolutely no problems . Hong Kong immigration are both efficient and pleasant . I have resided in Hong Kong for over 9 years and hold permanent residency . We receive both family and business visitors who regularly tour the surrounding region . Recently a colleague holding a Thai passport entered HK on the 4 June , left for Dubai on 5 June , returned on 19 June , left for Macau on 24 June returned to HK on 25 June and departed HK yesterday . They did not hold a visa , and at no point were they questioned or challenged as to their purpose of visit and/or frequency of entry/exit . Upon each entry you will be granted the amount of visa free days applicable to your passport . These can be chained together and there is no limit on the total number of days you can stay in one year , as long as you always exit and re-enter before each visa free period expires , and do not take paid employment or engage in other activities prohibited by your tourist status . My only advice would be to stick to one passport .
From the SBB Web site it seems that all you will need is your daughter 's passport or other official ID ( to prove her date of birth ) and the fee . You 'll need to give an address as well , which will be printed or written on the travelcard ; it 's not clear whether this needs to be an address in Switzerland or your own home address abroad . You 'll get two travelcards , one for each parent . A photo is not needed . ( From <URL> [ PDF , German ] ) As Roflcopter says , Zurich airport railway station can be busy and it can be quiet . If the ticket counters are busy you could try the SBB travel agency next door . I 'd be surprised if issuing the ticket takes more than five minutes . But assuming you do n't live in Switzerland , you 'd probably be better off with <URL> tickets for yourself and the free Family Card which Max mentions for your daughter . Even if you 're not doing enough travelling for a " go-anywhere " Swiss Pass to be worthwhile , a Half Fare Card ( CHF 120 ) will more than pay for itself just with one return journey from the airport to Jungfraujoch ( CHF 340 full fare ) .
When you arrive with the airport express you will be in an underground station 2 floors below the IFC Mall . There will be two exits : The one on the same level to a taxi station . The other one will be an escalator leading up to the airport express check-in on ground level . Go up the escalator 2 floors . There will be the check-in counter on one side of the hall and a long window with exits and cars passing by on the other side of the hall . Go out through the doors outside and the <URL> will stop right in front of you , <URL> . The right side is blocked with cars dropping off passengers . Since the buses are coming only every 20 minutes , and since your taxi will cost less than 50 HKD , you might want to just take one on the same level when you leave the train . Depending on the amount of people on the train , you could face a 10 minute wait for a taxi also , but you will be able to judge that right when you leave the train before you go up 2 floors to the bus station .
Yulong Mountain in Yunnan Province , Xiling Snow Mountain Ski Resort in Sichuan Province . Maybe some of the other mountains in those two provinces as well .
I would worry less about the Shanghai-Beijing train being full than the Hong Kong-Shanghai train - unless you travel over Chinese new year or another holiday . There are trains in intervals of 10-40 minutes and should allow you to at least get on the next train in case the current one is full . There is a website that lets you check the availability of seats on each train in advance , so you can get a picture which times of the day are the most busy . Since the website is blocked here for some reason , go to <URL> " Do tickets sell out ? " . Go to the linked page and do a train search , then click on " More Details " . It will show you how many seats are still free . For example , the 7:00 am train for tomorrow morning still seems to have over 500 seats free . If you do not feel comfortable with this information , I would consider asking directly the question " How full are the Shanghai-Beijing trains on normal Weekdays/Weekends " .
I use a combination of packing cubes , amenity kits I get for free from airlines , and cheap little zippered bags that get sold as pencil cases , makeup kits etc ( the dollar store has lots of sizes . ) I deliberately get a wide variety of colours ( so they 're easy to tell apart ) and sizes ( because sometimes you need a lot of room and sometimes you do n't . ) I give each bag a name - " bathroom stuff " , " first aid kit " , " eating kit " ( this is spare napkins and disposable cutlery , little extra packets of sugar , instant coffee etc , that you need when you 're eating on the go or in your room and you 're missing something ) , and so on . My packing list actually calls these things out by their names and colours eg " yellow first aid kit " and I have the packing list split up by bag and part of the bag so I might know that the yellow first aid kit is in the silver suitcase , on the far left when the handle is towards you . Clothes are in packing cubes by size - so one small cube is underwear , socks , etc , while a larger cube is shirts . If I do happen to toss an extra pair of socks in when I leave home , the next time the stuff comes out of the suitcase , those socks will be moved to the cube where they belong . This technique worked great on a 5 week trip where we packed and unpacked as frequently as every night and the longest in one place was 4 nights . Nothing got lost and we always knew where things were .
As a Munich native I simply ca n't just move on after seeing this question =) Please forgive me if I expand the scope of this question too much - but there is simply no way to explain the biggest Volksfest in one or two sentences . There are quite some different factors influencing your chance to get your Mass beer : Yourself If you 're travelling alone and therefore only need to seat a single person you might always get some free centimeters on a Bierbank as long as the tents are not closed . Couples and small groups ( maximum of four or five persons ) who are able to wait patiently and sober ( you wo n't get something to drink as long as you do n't have a place to sit down ) , while a drunken horde is dancing on the tables around them , have a realistic chance of capturing a fair amount of space . But be aware of the fact that you will need to defend the new gained territory against others ! Larger groups really need to develop negotiation skills ( bavarian tongue preferred ) or arrive much earlier . The party tent Beer tents are like clubs : divided in different areas . There are boxes mostly reserved by local companies to amuse their partners , clients and staff . You wo n't get into one if you are not invited ! The largest part of the tents is offered as first come , first served . These areas have the highest demand and get really crowded . Outside and around most of the tents you find so called beer gardens which mostly do not have a roof upon . These places are seeked for by families , elderlies and those who want to escape the enormous noise level inside the tents . Here is a constant coming and going . ( Good chances to catch some seats ) Food is also served out here . The day of choice The first weekend attracts the largest crowds . Simply do n't try to come here on the first day . Local youths and young adults get to the Wiesn on the first crack of dawn just to wait until noon when the first beer is served . Also simply avoid the last day of Oktoberfest : locals mourn about the ending of the fifth bavarian season . People are queuing up in front of the tent entrances already before 7 o'clock . Sounds like the second weekend is the perfect time spot to have some beers ? The one in the middle is traditionally called the Italian weekend . Around 200.000 Italians cross the alps to populate the tents - that could get a bit crowded . On Tuesdays all rides offer special prices for families and kids . That 's why the whole Theresienwiese is jam-packed with small humans from toddlers to teenagers . A good day to escape from the hordes to a tent for one or two ( or some more ) beers . The weather Sunny and hot weather makes the Wiesn show her beauty : Everybody heads to the Oktoberfest and needs to get some beer to cool down . Tents close at least an hour earlier than usually . Bad and rainy weather in the morning keeps the large crowds off . This gifts you some time : the tents close later . On weekdays the tents are sometimes not closed at all . A sudden rain break out in the afternoon drives everybody into the tents . Those might be closed within a few minutes . TL/DR Both statements quoted in the question describe the situation rather good . On weekdays arrive at least before three or four o'clock . On weekends try to get to the Festwiese around 8 o'clock . But as long as you stay friendly and ask kindly you always might find a little spot and you will make contact to great people from all over the world . So have fun , enjoy our beer and have a safe way home . See you in September ;)
You can never blend in in Egypt . Egyptians wear normal clothes nowadays and no one wears the native clothing which is like long dress ( except old people in small villages ) and I am sure you do not mean the very old native clothing of Egypt or you would look like a Pharaoh which is not blending in :) and not to forget that you are Caucasian which is hard to change to look like Egyptians ... Furthermore , Egyptians are born with the ability to know foreigners , I am an Arab who looks like any Egyptian and wears the same clothes and they still spot me and know that I am a foreigner . In addition to that , from your description of yourself and as Rory has commented , it will be hard for you to blend in easily . My advice to you , wear whatever clothes you wear at home ( unless you are from an African tribe that wears nothing ) and act normal and you will be just fine . Also , try not wear anything that shows your tattoos in Egypt , tattoos are for criminals in Egypt so showing them means you are either a criminal or a foreigner .
It depends on the hotel . Upscale ones , especially if they 're western brands , will generally have western style ( sit ) toilets . Cheap hotels , especially if they 're local or not a chain , will generally have eastern style ( squat ) toilets . It 's easy to find your preferred style if you know where to look and can identify the clientele the hotel caters to . A large hotel might offer both styles , though I do n't know of any that do . For your specific case , the Sheraton has western style toilets , as you can see from <URL> ( in the center of the mirror , underneath the flowers , partially obscured by the sink 's reflection ) : <URL>
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
end question
start question
How can I reduce expenses on currency conversions ?
Least expensive If the credit/debit card does not charge a foreign currency conversion fee and you pay the credit card off before it accrues interest then a credit/debit card will be the best way to reduce currency conversion expenses . Traveler credit cards , such as those that are with a frequent flyer program , typically have no foreign currency conversion fee . Additionally , most credit cards conversation rate seems to be better then what individuals get , probably because the buy foreign currency in bulk . Second least expensive Withdraw the amount of money you need at an in country ATM . There will be a normal ATM withdrawal fee , but it 's a fixed amount . However , if you withdraw too little you will have to withdraw again , incurring the withdrawal fee . If you withdraw too much you 'll have excess currency that you will have to sell , probably at a less than favorable exchange rate . These are both generalizations . It 's possible that you could find a favorable rate at a currency exchanger or the exchange rate could fluctuate enough between when you convert and when you get to the country your visiting to make it worth you while . I would not expect either situation though .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
If the liquid is red , it 's mostly likely alcohol ( ethanol ) , not mercury ( so less of an issue - even if it broke it would be no worse than spilling a few drops of wine ) . Even small mercury thermometers are <URL> , as Johnny says : By the TSA and some other authorities ( but Cathay Pacific , for example , does not allow them ) . So I think it should be okay , but you never know - you might lose it if some overzealous agent deems it a danger .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
First , as Gilles pointed out there 's likely a limit to how many on each train have this rate , so if you wait too long you risk missing out . However , assuming they 're available , <URL> , for saving fares : Availabilty : From 91 days up to one day before travel Note that they also point out what we 've suggested , that : Please note that the tickets are subject to availability .
There are two options . The easy way is cash , which is ( at time of writing ) still accepted by every toll plaza on every Japanese expressway : just collect a chit on entry and pay when you leave . But if you 're driving longer distances or on multiple days , you 'll want to look into getting set up for ETC ( electronic toll collection , but called " ETC " even in Japanese ) . This requires both a reader mounted on the dashboard , which is standard equipment in Japanese rental cars , and an ETC card , which is used to bill you . Getting your own card is a bit of a hassle if you 're not a resident , but fortunately most ( but not all ) rental agencies participate in a scheme that lets you rent one for only around & yen ; 300 for two weeks . It 's worth calling ahead to check if one will be available though ; if not , you can use <URL> . Convenience aside , while standard toll fees for ETC are exactly the same as paying in cash , having an ETC card also lets you take advantage of a plethora of discount schemes for weekends , late nights , etc : <URL> Particularly useful are the tourist-only regional Expressway Pass schemes , where you can pay flat fees of as little as & yen ; 500/day to use them . <URL> These are quite a deal if you 're driving longer distances , as the regular toll is around & yen ; 25/kilometer , meaning ( say ) Sapporo-Obihiro , a distance of under 200km , would cost you over & yen ; 5000 otherwise .
Upon landing at Abu Dhabi ; you and your luggage will be subject to an x-ray scan . At this point , any suspicious items will be confiscated . Although you are not importing items into the UAE ( as you never enter the country , but are in transit ) nevertheless any goods deemed inappropriate will be seized . You do run the risk of having the item confiscated but nothing more .
The US Government does n't publicly specify how it decides on a person 's eligibility for a visa , hence there can be no " official " answer to your query . In general , your local embassy will only know that you applied for the Green Card Lottery , if you are selected as those names are sent to the embassy , non-selected names that are not . But they do ask if you have previously applied . And so it is up to you to decide on how honest to be . What an immigration lawyer told me ( a neighbor ) is that if your qualifications are solid for the visa , having applied for the lottery has little effect . But if you are borderline , then it becomes a bigger factor .
A little bit of history : ( from the top of my head , there is very little to find about this on the web I think , even in Spanish ) : At some point during the Cuban Revolution and before I was born , being in possesion of any foreing currencies in Cuba became illegal ( unless you had a special permit from the government ) . Many Cubans spent time in jail for this reason . Diplomats , tourists ( which were rare at that time ) and foreigners with a permanent or temporary residence were also allowed to use foreign currencies , and there were special stores ( with imported products that could not be found anywhere else in the country ) that only them could use , at that time these stores were commonly called " diplo-tiendas " . After the fall of the Berlin wall , Cuba started to fall into a deep and accelerated economical crisis , the Cuban government started to print an alternate currency that could also be used in those " special stores " , they allowed regular Cubans to use them and encouraged them to give away their gold and jewleries in exchange for this new currency . This currency was despectively called by Cubans as " chavito " ( no idea where the word came from , I was a child at that time ) and the name is still used today in a lesser degree . This was the start of the two currencies system . In 1994 , during the worst period of the economical crisis , the Cuban government decided to open the country for tourism , foreign investment , and small private business . At the same time , they legalized the possession of foreign currencies , and more of those " special stores " were built all around the country . They assumed at that time that only a small percent of Cubans would ever be able to go there , and this was all supposed to be a " short-term temporary measure " . Their goal was to keep tourist and foreign companies as segregated as possible from regular Cubans , but at the same time estimulate the flow of strong currencies into the country . They started to print yet another new currency that could be exchanged at a 1x1 rate with US dollars , and when you paid with " real dollars " for product and services , you would get your change in that alternate currency unless you explicitly requested otherwise . Later on in 2004 the government decided to forbid using foreign currencies at stores and hotels , and they forced Cubans and tourist alike to exchange their foreign currencies by the Cuban Convertible Pesos . And this is how the mess became permanent . The two currencies : Tourists are allowed to posses and to use CUP , but there are certain services and products that are subsidized by the Cuban government , just for Cubans ( like theaters , concerts , museums , movies and the food rations that all Cubans receive on a monthly basis ) . Tourists will have to pay a different price in CUC for those services , and of course there are no subsidized food rations for them . However it might still be a good idea to have some CUPs available , since buying food from street sellers and fruit/vegies stores or taking public transportation ( including the " shared " taxis called " boteros " ) is a lot more cost-effective when paid using CUP , specially if you have a Cuban friend ( and I mean a real friend ) to walk around with you . The main concern when using the two currencies are the scams , you need to know all the bills and coins of the two currencies . So we have Cuban Pesos ( CUP ) and Cuban Convertibles ( CUC ) The main difference between the bills are the colors , as you can see in the picture below , CUP are kind of monochromatic , while CUC have many colors in them : <URL> Another difference is the presence of monuments of historical characters in CUCs instead of the picture of the person found in CUPs . Note that CUP bills that are about 30 years old or more were also printed in many colors , but they are not longer used these days and it would be very unusual to come across one of these . The coins are also easy to tell apart , coins from CUC have all an octagon around them , and they are stamped with landscapes . Coins from CUP are all stamped either with a star or with a picture of an historical character , namely Che Guevara - 3 cup , Jose Marti - 1 cup and ( currently rarely found ) Camilo Cienfuegos - 0.40 cup . CUC Coins : <URL> CUP Coins : <URL> <URL> Recent events : The Cuban goverment is currently <URL> , for this reason CUP can now be spent almost everywhere ( but not the reverse ) , and when prices are displayed just in CUC the regular CADECA conversion rate will be applied if you want to use CUP . As of January 2016 , state-owned companies ( for example most of the stores and supermarkets ) are starting to accept some major credit cards as method of payment for goods and services ( VISA and MasterCard for example ) , at least in Havana , so you could also use that as a way of avoiding dealing with currencies . Note that every time you use a credit card , the store rep will ask for a piece of ID and collect as much personal info as he/she can , I guess it will take a few years before t
You are asking the wrong question . Finding uninhabiteds island is not a problem , there are countless ones in Oceania or the Caribbean . Marooning was the term of leaving someone on an uninhabited island and it was considered a capital punishment . The reason is simple : What do you want to do there what you can not do with a big yacht or a house on a inhabitated island ? You have already the precondition that you have enough money . With a big yacht you can travel everywhere , replenish stocks and do what you please . A house on an inhabited island gives you social life to enjoy . Living on an island grows stale very quickly . Most uninhabited islands are for a reason uninhabited : They can not sustain life for one or several persons , so replenishment of stocks and therefore contact with the outer world are a necessity . If you can not avoid contact why living on an island ( instead on a yacht or house of an inhabited island ) in the first place ? What about friends ? They may find it cool to party some time , but sooner or later a problem occurs : Cabin fever . Every time a group is isolated and have no possibility to withdraw , it causes irritation and finally aggression . Anyway , all islands are under a jurisdiction . While officials may never find out what you are doing , once they know they can forcibly evict and punish you . And the law also applies for everything you have done , so no room for misbehavior . <URL> provided in the comments an example : <URL> . Tonga forced the claimants to abandon their attempt . Forget the idea .
The official page is the <URL> page . Working Holiday visa holders from the UK are an exception to the usual rules , where you are able to extend your total stay to 23 months ( the normal maximum for visitors from most other countries is 12 months without the ability to extend ) . The only restrictions on employment are : You must not take up permanent employment ( unless you apply for and are granted an ordinary work visa while you 're here ) . You must not work for a period exceeding 12 months . You can enrol in one or more courses of training or study of up to six months ' duration in total during your visit . The second point means that you can not work for the same employer for a time greater than 12 months . Working Holiday schemes for visitors from other countries may have different restrictions . For example , visitors from <URL> can not work for the same employer for more than three months . These restrictions change from time to time , and when you get a visa it should state on the visa itself what your restrictions actually are .
I find several things help , some are physical or physiological while others are purely mental : I find it easier to adjust to " it 's morning , get up now ! " - as you get when you fly east - if I get light on my face as soon as possible . On the plane , open your shade , eat the " breakfast " they give you , and do the things you do in the morning . In a hotel , get those curtains open . Go for a little walk outside before breakfast . change your watch to destination time . Do not say , or allow others to say , that it 's " really " 3am , or that your body thinks it 's 3am , or anything other than the time it is where you are Eat when you 're hungry , regardless of the clock , but sleep , drink coffee , drink alcohol , and watch TV only according to what the clock says is ok where you are Sleep on the plane . Even for a four hour flight , and even in the middle of the day - it 's boring , after all , and getting a little extra sleep is bound to help with tiredness later . This is especially important when flying west since you 'll need to stay up late . And when you wake up , even if there 's lots of flight remaining , switch to destination time . Treat the asleep time as the transition . Drink lots of fluids . Flying is dehydrating , jetlag makes you grumpy and headachy , and waiting until the appropriate time for a meal can mean getting thirsty . Have water or other non-caffeine non alcohol drinks a little more often than you otherwise would . If you know that jetlag hits you hard , arrange your schedule for the first few days of your trip to be low key . A long train ride with plenty of staring out the window could be boring , but if you 're tired and adjusting to the time shift , it 's way better than being on stage giving a make-or-break presentation . If you give yourself a day or two for jetlag transition , do n't take those days back by leaving vital work ( like rehearsing the talk ) for then . Same for when you come home . Bring something to occupy yourself if you wake up long before your travelling companions . Ideally you could read or do email for 30 minutes , then go back to sleep . Do n't take it as a sign of weakness if you get hit hard by jetlag . Some do and some do n't . But there are things you can do that help .
There is a <URL> that specializes on so called cargo ship cruises . Their URL has been in my bookmarks for some years now , but unfortunately I did not find the time to experience a cargo cruise . If I remember correctly you could order one-way tickets . But best is to contact them for additional information . I believe that the average price is around $ 100 per day , which might make the travel fees unpredictable . Please update here if you find other solutions . I would still like to do a cargo cruise once .
There are recommended <URL> at Narita . Terminal 1 : Terminal 2 :
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
As far as I know , Delta , like most other airlines , does n't give customers the option to directly buy tickets with a combination of miles and cash . The closest option I know of is that you can use money to buy miles ( see the " SkyMiles " tab on the Delta home page ) . You could buy the additional miles that you need , then book the flight using miles only . Unfortunately , the pricing for buying miles is pretty unfavorable . You do n't get to see the prices until you log in ( so they may offer different prices to different people , perhaps depending on elite status ) , but for me , the price is 3.5 cents ( USD ) per mile , in 2,000 mile increments . ( So you could get 4,000 miles for $ 140 or 6,000 miles for $ 210 . ) I usually figure the fair value of a mile is about 1 cent or less , so these miles are overpriced by a factor of 3.5 . You may want to consider paying cash for this flight ( which also gives you the choice of shopping other airlines ) , and saving your miles until you have either earned some more , or want to go someplace cheaper .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Starting in October 2014 , <URL> . India currently offers visa-on-arrival to tourists from only 11 countries , including Finland , Singapore and Japan . A quote from their Planning Minister on the matter : " We have decided to extend the visa-on-arrival facility to tourists from 180 nations . It will take five to six months for the respective departments to put the required infrastructure in place . We hope to implement this from the next tourist session beginning October , " The electronic visa-on-arrival will be available at 26 major airports in India and would be valid for 30 days from the date of the tourist 's arrival in India . Note , however , that this does not include all countries - for example , nationals from Pakistan , Sudan , Afghanistan , Iran , Iraq , Nigeria , Sri Lanka and Somalia still can not get visas on arrival .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
end question
