start question
Weekend in Turin or Genova ?
Both Turin and Genova are two big cities able to provide you a lot of attractions , the choice of the best one really depends on what you are interested in and what kind of cities you prefer in general . As a personal point of view I consider Turin far more elegant than Genova : nice streets with elegant buildings , the possibility to climb ( by car or by a little old train ) on the hill of Superga close to the city and have a wonderful view on the city and the Alps in the background , a lot of history related mostly with the period of the wars that brought to the formation of Italy as a single state ( but also big roman ruins ) , the biggest egyptian museum in the world outside Egypt and a vibrant night-life . Genova has a strong connection with the sea : the wonderful acquarium is considered its main attraction and its internal streets ( Carrugi ) are quite peculiar too . Even Genova has a rich history and has been one of the major european cities in term of power , so you can find several nice buildings reflecting this . I do n't know about the night-life there but I never heard anybody praising it like I did with the Turin one . Regarding the food , both have particular regional dishes ( pesto from Genova for example ) but I guess that Turin with the wonderful wines from Piemonte and the " fassona " meat could be considered better even from this point of view .
It 's hard to agree with Mhche 's answer here . Unless you have a very limited number of places you want to visit and are just going to take a few trips to the larger towns or villages along the coast , I would strongly advice against using public transport . Even if the buses travel fairly regularly through the " suburbs " of Rhodes City and to some extent down the east coast , at least to Lindos and Gennadi , the time tables for the villages on the west coast and in the interior parts of the island are very sparse . From Monolithos , there is e.g. just one bus in the morning going to Rhodes City and another bus in the late afternoon going from Rhodes and back , of course only Mo-Fr . This is the case for several other villages as well , if they have a bus connection at all . At least between Rhodes City and Lindos , the main road on the east coast is not particularly close to the coast . If you want to go the beaches or see any of the spots along the coast , expect to leave the bus at the main road and walk the rest . Bus tickets are more expensive than the 3 euros mentioned by Mhche . Travelling from Rhodes City , expect to pay about 5 $ to Lindos or 10 $ to the south of the island . Taxis are also rather expensive on Rhodes . A taxi from Rhodes City to Lindos will cost about 60 $ , to the southern parts of the island expect to pay more than 100 $ . Unless ordered and agreed upon in advance , do n't expect to find available taxis " on command " in the rural parts of the island . Do n't expect the bus drivers to speak English . The traffic is not that bad on Rhodes , so alternatives to renting a car could be to rent a bike or moped . With some luck , you may get a bike for 5 $ / day and a moped for 10 $ / day . But even the coastal roads can be quite hilly , so do n't underestimate riding a bike in the warm Rhodes weather :)
<URL> from The Istanbul Guide website mentions a few general-purpose apps including : Trafi Türkiye ( Free , English and Turkish , iOS and Android ) Working with real time data and timetables , this app pretty much unlocks the wondrous world of Istanbul 's public transport . This well designed and easy to use public transport map gets you from A to B using ferry , tram , metro , and bus . Whether you enter an address or just drop a pin , Trafi will suggest the nearest available route including transfer points and approximate duration . Check customizable Twitter feeds for news , or look at schedules and transport network maps . The app currently provides data for Istanbul , Ankara , İzmir , and Bursa Looking on both <URL> and <URL> markets yields interesting results for this app in terms of positive reviews and user count .
I 'll note up front that I 've only been to Puerto Maldonado of the two , but of your interests you 've listed : While Puerto Maldonado is on the Rio Madre de Dios , Iquitos is on the Amazon River proper . At Iquitos it is already at least three times the size of Rio Madre de Dios . Advantage : Iquitos . Monkeys are visible at both , but the river dolphins are only present at Iquitos . Advantage : Iquitos . You wo n't be spending much time in Puerto Maldonado proper if you do visit , as presumably you would be staying in lodges in the jungle . There is not much in town . While wildlife might be " better " ( an admittedly subjective term ) around Puerto Maldonado , it is still largely luck of the draw . The only large non-aquatic animals we saw in half a week were capybara , though we were taken to a family of river otters as well as spotting a caiman . Overall I would suggest opting for Iquitos based off my and others ' anecdotal evidence and your priorities , but with a caveat that if you are willing to spend the time and money to travel up to Manu National Park you may receive a different experience to our 's .
India does n't have a strong tipping culture . Still tourists are used to tip there , especially when they had a good service . And to be honest , this is a general trend in the vast majority of countries around the world . When you have received a good service , you are encouraged to tip . This is a way to show your appreciation and also to make those people life a bit better . This also encourage them to deliver good service to other tourists . 10 years ago , it was pretty different but with the explosion of tourism in a lot of countries , tipping has quickly become something that is expected and widely accepted . Now with regards to the amount ! This is a key point . You should tip between 3 % and 10 % of the overall amount . So if this is something " expensive " , you 'll usually pay around 3-5 % and if this is cheap , more around 7-10 % ( for instance 70 to 100 INR for a 1,000 INR bill ) . Then your comment is right , you should also take into consideration the salary . In India , depending on the region , the level of seniority and the grade of the restaurant/hotel , the staff is paid between 7.000 INR and 15.000 INR per month . So for instance , if someone helps you with your luggage . Let 's say that you have 2 large pieces and bring them to your home . If this takes 10 minutes , you could tip him 20-40 INR . I recently wrote a post about tipping in different countries . It is n't specific to India but <URL> .
Sleeping in airports is not uncommon when transiting through . Quite a few people stretch out and nap while waiting their next flight . But this is primarily in the transit areas , security often frowns on folks sleeping in the public area around the check in counters ( otherwise homeless folks would flock to the heated airport lobbies armed with a second hand suitcase ) . Both the Mecure Schipol and Yotel are inside the international transit area , so you ca n't access them until you check in for your flight . The Yotel was closed last September during renovation , not sure if it has reopened yet . The best bet is to book one of the other three on that website , since they are all within walking distance . Or look on a booking website like Agoda and pick a hotel that offers free airport shuttles .
OK after a couple of days of hunting I 've found three places where I get a Wi-Fi signal and can buy a coffee or a beer , but only one had a sign and with the others I 'm not sure whether the signal is from the place or a coincidental open one nearby ... " Bar Kafe Real Madrid " on Rruga Studenti right near Shesi Demokracia , the central traffic circle of the city . They only serve drinks . They are open until about 1am . Only middle aged men seem to come here . Oddly nobody ever comes to take my order if I do n't go to the trouble of going inside and asking . There are electrical sockets near some inside tables . Bar Kafe Lira on Rruga Studenti at the corner of Rruga Arkitekt Sinani . I do n't think this place has food either but espresso is just 50 cents ! I do n't think the Wi-Fi is theirs as it only worked from the outside tables to the far left as you 're facing the street . Street cafe outside the " Zona Plus " building on the pedestrian street Rruga Kolë Idromeno ( I ca n't see a name of the place anywhere including my receipt ! ) This place had no Internet sign but there 's a fast connection without password called " INTELLINET " . The connection turned bad after I was there for a while , strong signal but little data transfer . In short , it seems to me that war-walking is the best bet . Despite the warnings I received in neighbouring countries , Albania feels very safe at least here in Shkodër so I stopped worrying about wandering around with my netbook out ( - : All of these places required no password . <URL>
I found a list of laundry service providers in Bangkok . You can look over it . I hope it will help you to find your nearest service provider . <URL>
Here 's a <URL> I found which would explain your options in detail . As far as options go , you have several . Now since you mentioned you do n't want to do check in luggage , you can either carry it on you or in your cabin luggage . Fold it Up - This is what I usually do . Now I admit that doing the same in a cabin luggage is a little bit difficult but most cabin luggage which completely utilize the dimensions allowed on typical international flights would suffice . Of course you will have to fold your suit into a quarter to fit it in though . Wear It ! - It 's a great option especially because it shifts a lot of weight from your suitcase to yourself allowing you extra room to carry other stuff . The good part about this option is that you look great ! The bad part , your suit might get wrinkled on a long flight ( Not the best option if you have a meeting the next day ) . Roll It ! - I have n't personally tried this one , but I 'm a bit skeptical regarding whether the suit would not wrinkle or come out as mush . I would n't like to try this in the near future either though . But it does save a lot of space . Hanging Bag - I 've tried this one too , but I would n't recommend it at all , simply because it 's too painful and it might count as a separate item ( akin to a laptop bag or a guitar ) . Policies on airlines differ regarding it as well , but it is theoretically the best way ( for your suit ) to do it .
Euston Station itself also has free wifi , but power points are tricky and it is super busy/noisy . I would highly recommend the <URL> which is just down the road ( see the website for a map &amp; opening times ) . It has everything you need - free wifi ( you will need to sign up ) , powerpoints , toilets , coffee shops . There are even a few exhibits if you want to take a break and stretch your legs . Just go in , find a seat on one of the many floors , turn on your wifi and log in to the library ( BL visitor from what I remember ) and follow the instructions . There is a little more info on the website , or when you arrive there is a huge information desk ( you really ca n't miss it ) .
Not sure about Gothenburg , but I 've been in Sweden many many times , so I can comment on the general issue . The local exchange offices in Sweden ( I used the ones in Stockholm and Malmö ) charge you a huge amount of commission/service fee . That 's far above the standards of any country I 've ever been to outside Northern Europe . Considering this , I would really not recommend carrying Euro with you in hope to change it to Krona later on . Same problem appears even stronger if you somehow manage to withdraw Euro from an ATM in Sweden , I 'm skipping that option altogether . Paying in Euro is possible at very few places . I remember McDonalds in Stockholm accepting Euro , their ( so to say ) exchange rates were not great , but certainly better than what Forex ( the local exchange office I used ) ends up charging you . The final two options at hand are using your card either directly or to withdraw local currency . While the choice between these depends on your bank 's fees , mine has a policy that every time you withdraw cash abroad in another currency ( we use Euro , so this means outside Euro-zone ) , apart from using their own spread for buying and selling the currency , they charge you a fixed 2.50 euro plus 2.50 % of the amount of money you withdraw . That 's also pretty hefty , especially if you 're withdrawing a relatively small amount . On the other hand , if you just use your card to pay directly , you only lose the difference between the real rate and the rate that the bank sells that currency . This is by far the best option of those that I 've counted so far . The problem with this one is that you can not purely rely on your card ; it 's not valid everywhere and some places really require that you carry some cash . On top of that , in many countries I would be reluctant to use my card everywhere for safety reasons , but you do n't have to worry about it in case of Sweden . Besides , in Northern Europe card payments are very widely accepted compared to most other parts of the world . So my humble suggestion , withdraw some cash in the local currency , but not much , then pay for the rest of the stuff directly with your card whenever possible in case your bank 's fees are similar to mine . If your bank does not differentiate between cash withdrawal and direct payment , you may prefer to withdraw more local currency from an ATM . Have a nice journey !
<URL> and <URL> are two services often used to find accommodation hosted by locals . Airbnb accommodation is paid and varies from mansions to hay bales . By specifying " Shared room " or " Private room " in your search , you can often find rooms , mattresses , etc. in apartments or houses occupied by locals . The degree of interaction with your host depends on the specific stay ; reading descriptions and reviews will help you find the experience you want . Couchsurfing is free of charge , but guests are expected to contribute a reasonable amount in terms of conversation , chores , maybe a gift , etc ( leave your accommodation nicer than you found it ) . You can probably find the homestay experience you 're looking for on either site , the difference being that , because of Airbnb 's cost , its hosts will generally expect slightly less in terms of nonmonetary contribution from guests ( although gifts , conversation , and helping with chores are certainly welcome ) . On the whole , accommodation from either site will be safe and pleasant ; as with any part of the sharing economy , reviews and ratings provide information you can use to increase your chances of a positive experience .
The British FCO seems to indicate that Dengue Fever is still a risk in Mexico : <URL> ( Scroll down or CTRL-F to find the passage about Dengue Fever )
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
If you pay by Dollar ( or home currency ) The hotel will add a charge for this , hence you will be paying more . If you pay by local currency the exchange rate will be decided by the credit card company or bank . These exchange rates are much better than the hotel rates . <URL> for more information regarding this service for Visa holders . AFAIK , Other companies have similar services so this applies to all other credit cards .
The easiest thing to do in this case would be apply for renewal of a passport . The UK Border Agency allows you to keep your UK visa on an old passport and use the new passport for stamping during entry/exit . At a later date , your friend can contact UKBA and have the visa transferred to his new passport so that he does n't have to carry around two at the same time .
I travel &amp; trek regularly between 3000-5000 + meters , and I find altitude sickness highly predictable : practically everyone I 've seen sick have been outside safety guidelines . First night between 2000-3000 , third night still below 4000 , and max 500 meters higher in sleeping altitude for every night ... end of all major problems . Diamox not only works , it is recommended for direct flights to 3000 + locations like Cusco , Lhasa , Leh etc. -- see he <URL> or ISMM . I do n't like the side effects , but the cure is definitely better than the disease , and I did n't hesitate to use it for example on the road to Lhasa when it became necessary . Like all medications there are a few who ca n't take this , so discuss this with a doctor . Water does not work , beyond avoiding dehydration headaches , think around one liter extra per day . Altitude sickness is edema , i.e. excess of fluids in the tissues , and you wo n't prevent this by pushing in more fluids in to the system . In fact you can cause the exact same symptoms by binging on water . More on this <URL> .
You can drive in any US state with a drivers license from any other US state . However , if your residence is no longer in CT , then you must get an OR driver 's license . You can read the <URL> site , but basically it says if you change your residence , you need to change your address with the DMV . As long as you are in OR temporarily ( there 's no good definition for temporarily , so it 's mostly up to you ) then sure , use your CT license .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
I just found a Tesla Model S ( " or similar " , which is what they put on every car , but they say they 'll contact you to confirm after you book ) from Sixt searching for a pickup from Frankfurt Airport ( I randomly used 06/20/2016 -06 / 22/2016 ) for a mere US$ 360.71 / day . So they appear to have at least one for rent . Whether it 's available under the exact terms you want is something you might need to contact them about .
end question
start question
Is medical insurance mandatory for entering the Schengen area if you are not required to have a visa ?
The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : All foreigners , required or not to obtain a short stay visa , who wish to enter France must have a 30.000 Euros health insurance that covers all Schengen territory . " Strange that the same requirement is not mentioned in the <URL> . The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : To reduce risks or delays in the border it is advisable to : Hire an international insurance , valid for Europe during the period of stay in the Schengen territory with a coverage of at least $ 30.000,00 for medical or hospital expenses . Even though it is not mandatory for entrance in the Netherlands , some other countries in the Schengen territory require this insurance . Additionally , I looked a few other ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) embassies sites in Brazil and none of them mention the health insurance requirement Besides that , it is common sense in Brazil that a Brazilian who wish to travel to Europe , must have this 30.000 EUR health insurance . For instance , credit cards like <URL> or <URL> advise that they will give such insurance if the airline tickets are bought using the credit card . A few travel forums and sites like <URL> ( backpackers ) or <URL> ( talking about travel ) also mention the need to have such health insurance . All in all , it 's hard to say if the health insurance is really mandatory or no . Evidences suggest it is not for brazilians , besides the common sense , but I just ca n't be sure .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
Your visa is generally valid for trips to France and other countries in the Schengen area . Provided it is a multiple-entry visa and you already used it for its main purpose , going to France is perfectly fine , even if the purpose is different . It 's not likely to come up but it 's best to have all the documentation you would need for a fresh visa application ( itinerary , proof of financial means , accommodation , return ticket ... ) with you when crossing the border so that if there is any doubt about your trip , you can easily show that you still fulfil all the requirements to visit the Schengen area . If it was a single entry visa or you had n't use it before , it 's more delicate because it might appear as if you lied to get a business visa that you always intended to use for other purposes . But that 's not an issue in your situation as you would already have used the visa for its main purpose . See also <URL> for all the details .
Your question has both legal , but perhaps more important , also moral aspects . Generally speaking , when airborne , an aircraft is subject to the legislation of the carrier 's home country . So far so good . I am not sure if medical doctors according to US law is both legally required to help in an emergency and liable to damages they inflict even if practicing in good faith , but if it is so , the doctor you are talking about is indeed relieved from these legal obligations when flying with a foreign carrier . The legal regulations defining liabilities , but also the duty to help are however very different from country to country . E.g. German criminal code contains " non-assistance of a person in danger " ( unterlassene Hilfeleistung ) as an offense and obligates even lay-men to help in case of an accident or medical emergency . Failure to do so is punishable with a fine or even up to one year imprisonment . I am also not aware of any country actually forbidding medical doctors or lay-men to provide assistance in case of emergencies . Members of " Médecins Sans Frontières " are regularly both assisting and practicing medicine in countries , in which they are in most cases probably not legally approved to work as doctors . Even without any legal regulations , medical doctors at least ought ( IMHO ) to feel morally obligated to follow the Hippocratic oath and help wherever possible .
You have a Schengen visa with start/end dates of 6/19 and 7/19 . Between these two dates you have been given a total of 20 days to spend in the zone . The issuer expects you to spend your 20 days between 6/19 and 7/19 . You are asking if it 's OK to enter the zone on 7/10 and leave on 7/30 because your visa will be valid on your entry date and will have 20 days of unspent leave on it . No . When a Schengen expires , all unspent leave is lost . In your case it means you will have 10 unspent days on 7/19 which are forfeit . Those days can not be used beyond the expiry date . Presumably the start/end dates and the 20 days sync up to the itinerary you provided when you obtained your visa . If there has been a material change in your itinerary , you can ask for your visa to be revoked and reissued to accommodate your new plans . They like it when people do this because it demonstrates a proactive attitude towards observing the rules . See also : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL> Also : <URL>
According to <URL> ( in Dutch ) the <URL> , you 're required to have a warning triangle and a safety vest . While a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are only required for Belgian drivers , they still recommend taking them as well . Another <URL> says that local police does not always take into account that some rules do n't apply to cars registered in foreign countries . Legally speaking there is a difference between rules that apply to the car and rules that apply to the behavior of the driver . The requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are legally specified as rules that apply to the car , and therefore only apply to cars registered in Belgium . As for the warning triangle and safety vest , <URL> ( in Dutch ) , the Belgian law does not state that these are required to be present in a car , like the other two items , but instead specifies that when leaving the car in the middle of the road , you need to be wearing a safety vest . If you have an accident , you 're required to put out a safety triangle . So you 're not technically required to have these items in the car , but it would be difficult to follow the law otherwise . For the safety vest this was quite literally explained in a <URL> : La modification du Code de la Route ne s ' accompagne pas d'une adaptation de la réglementation technique des véhicules . En effet , si la veste réfléchissante était imposée comme équipement obligatoire du véhicule , seuls ceux immatriculés en Belgique seraient concernés . Il est donc plus logique d'introduire cette obligation sous la forme d'une règle de comportement même si l'utilisation de cette veste suppose nécessairement que le conducteur en dispose d'une dans son véhicule . Translated , this says : The modification of the highway code is not accompanied by an adaptation of the technical regulations for vehicles . Should the safety vest be imposed as an obligatory equipment of the vehicle , then this regulation would only apply to vehicles registered in Belgium . It therefore makes more sense to introduce this obligation as a rule of behavior , although the use of the safety vest necessarily implies that the driver has one in his vehicle . Edit : It has been pointed out to me that Belgian law does also have a rule for safety vests which applies to the car . This is the result of a <URL> . It was issued about 2 years after the above one , in 2009 . As they stand , there is now a behavioral rule which applies to anyone driving in Belgium , and a car equipment rule which applies to any car registered in Belgium . There is no accompanying text for the 2009 Royal Order which explains why the extra rule was introduced after all . I suspect the first one did not give enough legal basis to fine people for not having the safety vest in the car , as it only " implied " you needed to have one . As far as I know , the requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are ( still ) only specified as rules that apply to the car . However , in summary , rather than trying to argue the finer points of these legal distinctions with local police , I would recommend following the advice of the Royal Dutch Touring Club by simply taking all four items . It avoids the need for discussion , the possibility of fines , and they might be useful if you do have an accident .
I ca n't comment on Laos as I 've never been there for Songkran/New Year ( although it is probably my favorite place on the planet otherwise ! ) , however ... I was in Bangkok during Songkran several years ago ( 2004 I think ) , and it was an amazing atmosphere and experience , especially around Khao San Road . If you 're in a different part of the country there will still be some form of celebration , but it 's not as intense as in Bangkok/Khao San Road . Whether it 's worth the extra money to you is obviously not a question I can answer , but if it were me I would be handing over the $ 80 in an instant ! Keep in mind that logistically things can be a little more difficult during/around Songkran , especially if you 're staying around Khao San Road . Roads are closed/blocked , and even taxis/tuk-tuks/etc will not be able to get through so you may end up having to walk the last few blocks to/from your hotel - with the real possibility of getting very wet in the process ( although people are generally respectful of people with luggage/etc , there 's always collateral damage to worry about ... )
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
The reciprocity fee is currently US$ 160 for US citizens , and can now be paid online in advance via the website <URL> . There is a PDF guide on paying the fee <URL> ( The entire guide is in English except for the country name of the US , which is in Spanish - " Estados Unidos " ) Not surprisingly , this matches the fee the US charges for non-immigrant visa applications , which is currently <URL> - that 's why it 's called a " reciprocity fee " .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
I have arrived in Sweden and can now answer my own question . Even though I had insurance from my employer , I did not have any supporting documents . So I bought a 60 day travel-cum-medical insurance for me and my wife . We crossed the border control without any problems . The border guard did not ask anything . To sum up , even though its mandatory to have an insurance when travelling to EU , in practice border guards rarely ask for proof . Anyway , having insurance is always a good idea . If not long term , choose a limited period insurance which will cover you till you get settled in the new place .
Since each of these countries would unilaterally decide whether they recognize Schengen visas and under which conditions , I do n't think it 's possible to find an official list anywhere . I am marking this answer as " community wiki " so that we can come up with a list : Bulgaria , Romania , Croatia and Cyprus ( all EU members ) have rules modelled on those of the Schengen area and allow holders of some types of Schengen visas to visit the country , see <URL> , <URL> and previous questions on this site , e.g. . <URL> Official sources are hard to come by but Albania apparently allow holders of multiple-entry Schengen visa who have already used their visa at least once to visit one of the countries of the Schengen Area , see <URL> and <URL> . Turkey provides some concessions to those that normally need visas . If you normally need a visa for Turkey , and you hold a Schengen visa - you may be able to avail the new electronic " e-visa " system . The list of countries whose citizens can avail this exemption <URL> . <URL> , multiple-entry Schengen visa holders can visit Bosnia and Herzegovina for 7 days . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Macedonia for 15 days ( with some caveats ) . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Serbia for 90 days . <URL> confirms that information . <URL> and <URL> , Mexico offers a visa exemption for 180 days to those holding a valid visa issued by " Canada , Japan , USA , United Kingdom or a Schengen Member State " ( this may be further restricted by nationality ) . <URL>
It is , in my experience , either mandatory or forbidden , never optional . On a flight from JFK to JNB , we stopped in Dakkar . Some people left the plane because that was their destination . Then security came on , did a quick search of the empty seats , new people got on , insecticide was sprayed , and we left . On a flight LAX-SYD-Melbourne , everybody had to get off and the Melbourne people were told to stay in the gate area to line up and reboard . Also to take all their stuff with them . Keeping track of who left the plane and who did n't would be a nightmare . Even the Dakkar experience seemed suboptimal to me .
It depends on the terms of your travel insurance . Usually these insurances include some extras that are not covered by EHIC . Here is a non-exhaustive list of services they can offer , and that are not offered by the basic insurance : Repatriation services , including repatriation by plane . Services for family members . If you get sick during the holidays , they take care of your dependents . If you have to cancel a holiday because of health reasons ( or related ) they can cover cancellation fees . Or fees that arise when you have to interrupt your holiday prematurely . They cover extra costs for doctor visits , medical treatments or hospital stays , not covered by the EHIC . They reimburse costs for special mountain rescues , e.g. when you go skiing . They provide assistance in the case of lost luggage . They provide assistance in the tragic case where you or one of your family members dies abroad . If all these services are covered or if there are other elements covered , and to what extent the are covered , depends on the precise terms and conditions . Just read them or talk to your insurance broker . Or get into contact with a consumers ' association if you want a more neutral point of view . Insurance regulations can differ from one country to another , even in the EU .
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
No , you only have to provide the itinerary for your first trip , as well as a justification for why you need a multi-entry visa . E.g. here 's what the <URL> says about multi-entry visas : Multiple-entry visas may be issued with a period of validity between six months and five years , where the following conditions are met : ( a ) The applicant proves the need or justifies the intention to travel frequently and/or regularly , in particular due to his occupational or family status , such as business persons , civil servants engaged in regular official contacts with Member States , and EU institutions , representatives of civil society organisations travelling for the purpose of educational training , seminars and conferences , family members of citizens of the Union , family members of third-country nationals legally residing in Member States and seafarers ; and ( b ) The applicant proves his integrity and reliability , in particular the lawful use of previous uniform visas or visas with limited territorial validity , his economic situation in the country of origin and his genuine intention to leave the territory of the Member States before the expiry of the visa applied for . Otherwise the requirements for applying for a multi-entry visa are exactly the same .
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
end question
start question
Weather map for US coasts including past patterns and monthly averages ?
You can find daily weather maps of the lower 48 at <URL> since 2003 ; there are historical maps from 1871-2003 available at <URL> but you 'll need to download an additional plugin . The article at <URL> includes a basic climate map and links to descriptions of the seasonal characteristics of the " humid continental " and " humid subtropical " climate types . Between <URL> and <URL> , you can find average weather for different stations for different months from around the world . I 'd start with WeatherBase , as its data is more useful in my opinion , e.g. I prefer a temperature range to a mean temperature . On the other hand , WorldClimate includes more stations , and you do n't need to convert if you do n't know Fahrenheit . For planning a road trip , I would not think weather would be your primary concern ; it 's hard to find a rental car without air conditioning , and in the north or in the mountains where you are likely to see snow in winter , the road crews are very good about keeping the highways and arteries clear ( ice and snow are most dangerous where drivers are unaccustomed to it , like D.C. or Dallas ) . At any time of year there is the risk of a thunderstorm , tropical storm , and/or blizzard , but they are not predictable . Pay closer attention to traffic patterns in and out of cities ( e.g. do n't leave for the Hamptons from New York City at 5pm on Friday ) , <URL> , and phenomena like the " driving season " between the last Monday in May ( Memorial Day holiday ) and the first Monday in September ( Labor Day holiday ) when traffic and fuel prices are higher .
I am afraid there is no temporary ( nonimmigrant ) visa that allows you to be a tourist and work at the same time ( except for H-1B , H-2B ) , and by work I mean getting paid by any US employer . As a Dutch citizen , you can enter under the visa waiver program which allows you enter for tourism/business/medical reasons only . You will not be allowed to work . To work in the US temporarily you need to have a H-1B visa , to obtain that you need to have a job offer from a US employer . If you managed to get that then you are allowed to work with this employer only and changing the employer is another story . So I do not think this fits your needs . Regarding WWOOF , their page makes it clear that <URL> . Anyway , since WWOOF is not a paid work neither volunteering it will be ok to become a WWOOFer with your tourist visa , according to their website : WWOOF is an opportunity to visit farms affiliated with our network for a cultural and educational exchange . Most people outside the United States who come WWOOFing use a holiday or tourist visa . Although many of the hosts on our network are associated with organic lifestyles and sustainability , it is important to note that persons associated with WWOOF-USA are travelers experiencing a wide variety of sustainable living situations and are not " workers " or " working " for wages or other remuneration in the United States . Bottom line , you need to change your plans a little , removing the " working in restaurants " part will make your trip possible and legal with a tourist visa , other option would be obtaining an immigrant visa which takes time and not as easy as nonimmigrant visa . For more information : <URL> .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
No . You can not apply for a U.S. visa inside the U.S. . A U.S. visa is only for entering the U.S. , and can only be applied for while outside the U.S. Even if you had a visa , it does not mean " for sure that you will be able to come back " . A visa just permits you to apply for admission . It is always possible to be denied entry on a nonimmigrant visa .
It is unlikely you would pay a lower rate for a walk-in at any hotel or motel . Whether or not the walk-in rate is higher depends on many factors and your problem is that you wo n't know until you arrive . However , during summer travel season , price is not the primary concern , it 's availability . You should make a reservation to guarantee you have a room .
In my case , after formal letter exchange with American Embassy in Italy , a B1 visa was required . Supporting documents to get a B1 visa are listed here : <URL> And an interview at the Embassy is also nedeed . You 'll get asked the purpouse of your visit and other related questions . In my specific case I have already a work here in Italy to be started in the months following my trip to the U.S. so it was easy to prove my non-immigrant intent . Also I showed emails between me and the Department that 's hosting me and non-disclosure agreement with their hospital . Another important part of the interview was showing them a bank account balance that would suffice to self-fund myself during my staying . I honestly do n't know why VWP is n't suitable for this , but I think sending an email to your local American Embassy is the best option since each case is different .
October in Japan is going to be a lot like October in Europe and America , namely autumn . In Tokyo , <URL> , mostly clear skies but occasional rain , beautiful autumn foliage . Personally , late September/early October is one of my favorite seasons to be in Japan , second only to cherry blossom season around April . Not too hot , not too cold , and off-peak so not too many tourists . But if you 're expecting beach weather , then sorry , you 'll only find that at the southernmost tip around Okinawa ... and since Japan is a long and skinny country , there might already be a dusting of snow up in northern Hokkaido . There 's one catch though : October is the tail end of typhoon season in Japan , which could make a cruise pretty unpleasant ( and explains the high precipitation readings on the chart linked to above ) . However , the peak is Aug-Sep and the typhoons usually hit the Pacific side of the islands , not the Japan Sea side you 'll presumably be sailing on , so odds are pretty high you 'll be OK .
When I crossed the border Canada - > US ( on a European passport ) earlier this year by car they did not ask for any return tickets . Just what I do for a living , how long I plan to stay in the US , how I plan get out and how much money I had on me and available in my bank account . Been there before for 2 weeks and in transit a couple of times ; so maybe they took my previous records into account ... The first time however was a completely different story ; had to attend a conference , but did not book a hotel before and the guy in customs would n't let me pass until I had an hotel address for my arrival card . Was stuck there for ~ 1h , in the end I just wrote down a random hotel address from the yellow pages . So my advice would be to have some sort of reservation for a hotel/hostel where you stay for at least one night , and the greyhound tickets just in case , because you MUST write some address down on your arrival card , otherwise thou shall not pass ...
Yes you need a visa to enter Turkey , according to <URL> United States of America : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . They can obtain three month-multiple entry visas from Turkish diplomatic representations abroad and also via the website <URL> . Please note , no more visa stickers on border crossings , you have to obtain the e-visa in advance : As of April 17 , 2013 , electronic visa ( e-Visa ) replaces " sticker visa " which was issued at the border crossings . Applicants just need to log on to www.evisa.gov.tr , provide the requested information , ( after the application is approved ) make online payment and download their e-Visa . The e-visa is easy to obtain and takes 24 hours to be issued , as mentioned in the <URL> page : Your e-Visa will be e-mailed to you within 24 hours after completion of your application . Note : The e-Visa 's introduced in 2013 are now becoming mandatory . Sticker visas will not be available at border crossings beginning April 10th , 2014 . If you needed a visa before , you must now obtain it in advance . This includes US citizens . There are even more restrictions on arrival for many other countries .
What Is the US Visa Waiver Program ? The <URL> allows travellers of certain nationalities to visit the US for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . This is a bilateral agreement , meaning that all countries participating in the VWP must allow US citizens to visit for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . To date <URL> : Andorra ( 1991 ) Australia ( 1996 ) Austria ( 1991 ) Belgium ( 1991 ) Brunei ( 1993 ) Chile ( 2014 ) Czech Republic ( 2008 ) Denmark ( 1991 ) Estonia ( 2008 ) Finland ( 1991 ) France ( 1989 ) Germany ( 1989 ) Greece ( 2010 ) Hungary ( 2008 ) Iceland ( 1991 ) Ireland ( 1995 ) Italy ( 1989 ) Japan ( 1988 ) Korea , Republic of ( 2008 ) Latvia ( 2008 ) Liechtenstein ( 1991 ) Lithuania ( 2008 ) Luxembourg ( 1991 ) Malta ( 2008 ) Monaco ( 1991 ) Netherlands ( 1989 ) New Zealand ( 1991 ) Norway ( 1991 ) Portugal ( 1999 ) San Marino ( 1991 ) Singapore ( 1999 ) Slovakia ( 2008 ) Slovenia ( 1997 ) Spain ( 1991 ) Sweden ( 1989 ) Switzerland ( 1989 ) Taiwan ( 2012 ) United Kingdom ** ( 1988 ) Passport Requirements Travellers wishing to benefit from the VWP must have a machine readable <URL> with a digital photograph printed on the document . All countries participating in the VWP must , and do , issue these passports to their citizens . If you do n't have an e-Passport to date , you 'll have to apply for one . What Is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? The <URL> is a fully automated process which allows visitors to verify if they are eligible to travel to the US under the VWP . The ESTA is not a visa . The ESTA is not a guarantee that visitors will be admitted entry to the US . Obtaining an ESTA simply means that the applicant meets <URL> . Namely : Who You Are : You are a citizen or eligible national of a Visa Waiver Program country . You are currently not in possession of a visitor 's visa . Your travel is for 90 days or less . You plan to travel to the United States for business or pleasure . You want to apply for a new authorization for one person or a group of applications for two or more persons . <URL> : Q : What is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? A : The Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) is an automated system that assists in determining eligibility to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and whether such travel poses any law enforcement or security risk . Upon completion of an ESTA application , a traveler is notified of his or her eligibility to travel to the United States under the VWP . Who Needs to Apply for ESTA ? <URL> Travellers who normally would require a visa to enter the US should apply for a visa and not for an ESTA . Travellers who are eligible to visit the US under the VWP must obtain an ESTA prior to travelling to the US . This includes travellers who will only transit in the US on their way to somewhere else . Quoting from <URL> : Q : Who is required to apply for ESTA ? A : All eligible nationals or citizens of VWP countries who plan to travel to the United States for temporary business or pleasure under VWP are required to receive an authorization through ESTA prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or vessel . The term " United States " refers to the continental United States , Alaska , Hawaii , Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands of the United States , and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands . Accompanied and unaccompanied children , regardless of age , are also required to obtain an independent ESTA approval . A third party , such as a relative or travel agent , is permitted to submit an ESTA application on behalf of a VWP traveler . Q : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require an ESTA if they are only transiting the United States en route to another country ? A : Yes . Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require either an ESTA or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the ESTA application , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination in the address lines under the heading " Address While In The United States . " <URL> An ESTA is required only for travellers seeking entry by air or sea . How Long Is my ESTA Valid For ? Once approved , an ESTA is valid for two years , and can be used multiple times , provided the reason for the multiple visits to the US remains within the scope of the VWP : business or tourism . If the applicant 's passport has less than two years validity left , the ESTA expires when the passport expires . My ESTA Expires Halfway into my Trip in the US <URL> It does not need to be valid for the entire duration of stay in the US . Therefore , there is no need for a traveller to apply for a new ESTA if their existing one expires whilst they are visiti
is it likely that my US-issued card will be generally usable in the UK and other countries with the chip-and-pin system , or should I be ready to exchange cash ? You should be able to use your card at most places , in the UK and other countries too . At least ATMs and most shops accept it , while some vending machines may require a chip-and-pin ( i.e. <URL> ) card . <URL> has this to say ( regarding UK &amp; Ireland ) : While most terminals will still accept a magnetic strip card , and the major credit card brands require vendors to accept them , poorly trained staff may refuse to take the card under the mistaken belief that they will be held liable for any fraud if the card can not verify a PIN . Non-chip-and-PIN cards may also not work in some unattended vending machines at , for example , transport stations . If you 're still worried , there are options like this : In 2010 a number of companies began issuing pre-paid debit cards that incorporate the Chip &amp; PIN which allows Americans to load up cash as Euros or British Pounds . In Finland , <URL> : blue for chip cards and yellow for legacy cards with only magnetic stripe . ( In most counties using EMV there 's just one slot for both kinds of cards though , AFAIK . ) Photo credit : <URL>
<URL> . The key points were : Keep it in its box , safe and secure . ( It may actually make it clearer on an xray ) Avoid wrapping the box . Security may ask you to unwrap wrapped packages . Attach a small note - eg " Engagement ring inside , please be discreet " . Put it in a clean sock or similar , as an extra visual layer of protection , but will still be easily identifiable on an xray Put it in your carry-on ( you do n't want your checked luggage going missing with it ) Fill the rest of the bag with books , magazines etc - but NOT toiletries or other items that may prompt a security search Keep an eye on security , and if they stop your bag , try and distract her with a task while they check it ( get her to find something , or buy something ) In terms of dollar value being a problem , it may be worth keeping a receipt to show value in case of any doubt ( some countries limit the value of gifts or items you bring in ) .
I think you 're limited to renting a car or traveling on Greyhound . Amtrak does have a <URL> that crosses the upper parts of Montana and North Dakota but I would n't call it very useful . If you rent a car , you can save money by renting and returning the car to the same location . Returning a car to a different location is usually more expensive . Greyhound has a <URL> which can be used on certain other carriers and in Canada , if I understand correctly . A 7-day Discovery pass is $ 246 . A 14-day pass is $ 356 . As a test , I checked Billings , MT to Fargo , ND . Greyhound said that it would take 17 h 30 m on a Monday in June with one transfer ( from 12:15 to 18:45 ) . Google maps reported a travel time of 9 h 12 m by car . At 608 miles , and gas at $ 4/gallon ( likely more in the summer ) , gas would cost around $ 122 . Cheapest Greyhound ticket is $ 96 .
Here you go : <URL> ￥ 1,296 from Amazon.co.jp . Here 's a <URL> with some pictures of the map folded out . And yes , that 's entirely in Japanese , I very much doubt such a thing exists in English . To get some idea of the effort that would entail , <URL> of another incomplete &amp; partial map covering just the Tokyo metro area .
I 'm planning on visiting Texas ( Flying to Houston , planning to drive around somewhere between Houston and New Orleans ) from The Netherlands some time soon . We want to do a mini ( = 2 weeks ) roadtrip in and around the Houston area . Well , with this in mind you would want to avoid the summer months . In Houston it can get quite hot and its humid since its right on the coast . The drive to New Orleans ( which I have done as well ) is nice , as you get to go across the bottom of Texas and Louisiana ( on I-10 ) . Its about a 6 hour drive ( depending on the traffic ) . You may even catch a glimpse of a riverboat casino around Beaumont ( the border town to Louisiana ) . However , we are not used to hot and humid weather and would like to avoid really hot weather if possible . So far I have been reading good things about the end of October , beginning of November . ( Good temperature ) Will this be a good time to visit this area ? What about hurricanes or storms ? Do some tourist attractions close during specific months ? Thunderstorms and other severe weather is a spring time phenomenon . I would be surprised if you ran into a tornado warning in October or November , as during these months the weather is getting progressively cooler . This would a good time to visit as you 'd have quite a respite from the heat . The major tourist attractions in Houston have to do with the space program , and these are open during your time frame . I spent a great amount of time in central Texas ; here is what I can tell you : Texas is big . It is the largest of the contiguous states ; ( the largest by area is actually Alaska ) . You can find all kinds of terrain , environment and even weather in Texas . You can easily spend a few weeks and still not explore everything there is to see . It gets hot in the summer time . You are looking at temperatures around 45C during the day . At night it cools down a bit . The really humid part of Texas is in the south near Houston / San Antonio . If its not hot , then you have to worry about severe weather ( tornadoes ) and thunderstorms . They are rarely as bad as what the movies show . The midwest is also known as tornado alley . In my opinion : July - August ( hot + humid ) September - November ( best time in my opinion , very nice mild weather , and it gets pleasantly cool at night ) December - Jan ( avoid , it can get cold during these months ) . Late Feb - Mid-march ( great time to visit , lots of sporting events and great weather ) . Budget wise , Texas is actually quite affordable . The main metropolitan areas ( Dallas , Austin , Houston ) have similar price structures as any other major city . However , taxes are quite forgiving . My personal favorite city is Austin because I am a fan of live music and you can always find live music in the clubs/bars . It is known as the " Live Music Capital of the World " . Try to stay in the outskirts as accommodation within the city limits can get quite expensive .
Brisbane International Airport provides trolleys free of charge in international terminal , but charges AU$ 4 in the domestic terminal . At the International Terminal , baggage trolleys are provided free of charge and are located in the car park and on Levels 2 and 4 . For passenger convenience small trolleys for hand luggage and shopping are also provided in the Level 3 Departures Lounge . At the Domestic Terminal , trolleys are available for a fee of AU$ 4 . Trolleys are located on the left hand side of the Domestic Terminal pick up and drop off road . Source for <URL> Darwin Airport provides trolleys free of charge . Source for <URL>
New York City subway service has only been <URL> , and the decision to do so was criticized when the snowstorm actually dropped far less snow than expected . It was also <URL> , back in 2012 , but that was actually a well-advised closure . You 're extremely unlikely to see a system-wide service interruption , but individual services may be delayed or cancelled due to accidents , mechanical problems or the like . You can get information on service advisories from the <URL> or <URL> , or by <URL> .
You can find daily weather maps of the lower 48 at <URL> since 2003 ; there are historical maps from 1871-2003 available at <URL> but you 'll need to download an additional plugin . The article at <URL> includes a basic climate map and links to descriptions of the seasonal characteristics of the " humid continental " and " humid subtropical " climate types . Between <URL> and <URL> , you can find average weather for different stations for different months from around the world . I 'd start with WeatherBase , as its data is more useful in my opinion , e.g. I prefer a temperature range to a mean temperature . On the other hand , WorldClimate includes more stations , and you do n't need to convert if you do n't know Fahrenheit . For planning a road trip , I would not think weather would be your primary concern ; it 's hard to find a rental car without air conditioning , and in the north or in the mountains where you are likely to see snow in winter , the road crews are very good about keeping the highways and arteries clear ( ice and snow are most dangerous where drivers are unaccustomed to it , like D.C. or Dallas ) . At any time of year there is the risk of a thunderstorm , tropical storm , and/or blizzard , but they are not predictable . Pay closer attention to traffic patterns in and out of cities ( e.g. do n't leave for the Hamptons from New York City at 5pm on Friday ) , <URL> , and phenomena like the " driving season " between the last Monday in May ( Memorial Day holiday ) and the first Monday in September ( Labor Day holiday ) when traffic and fuel prices are higher .
You can apply to replace a lost I-94 by filing <URL> . It 's very expensive though . It might be worth checking the <URL> in case they have it there , in which case you can print it out ; though it 's unlikely in your case . How are you leaving the U.S. ? According to <URL> , if you leave by air , you do n't have to turn in an I-94 . But if you leave by land , then you need to turn in an I-94 , so you might need to get a replacement . Or maybe if you do n't turn it in you can try to resolve it out with CBP the next time you try to enter , with proof that you entered Canada or Mexico .
I take it you have seen the pictures of <URL> ( 4,158 m / 13,642 ft ) and <URL> ( 3,238 m / 10,623 ft ) on Wikipedia ? Mountains in Switzerland will not be closed , but most will require specialized gear ( and matching experience ) in winter . for Titlis ( the lower of the two peaks ) , the temperatures in February are : I 'm not sure about your definition of Chilly ; my definition would be ' Freezing cold '
end question
start question
What is the best time to make a hotel reservation ?
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
From at least <URL> : Whether clocks stay set on " ship " time or are changed as the vessel moves through time zones depends on the ship , the itinerary , and the time of year so it 'll depend on the company you use , and the zone of the ship and where it travels during the tour . Most ships adhere to the time zone they are in and clocks are set forward or back to adhere to local time . Passengers are also advised to change their watches to the ' correct ' time -- there is usually a reminder card on your pillow before you go to bed . However , not all ships do that , particularly in the Caribbean ! Some ships stay on " ship " time , which can be different from " island " time . So the best authority is the ship itself , and they 'll know from experience that people get it wrong , and will do their best to ensure you do n't miss the boat . From friends who have travelled on a cruise ship in the Mediterranean , breakfast and lunch could be literally ' whenever we wanted ' - there was often a buffet . <URL> has seating times for dinner that you can request , and for breakfast , say , on their ship <URL> : Breakfast times vary daily , so please check the Personal Navigator -- the Disney Cruise Line daily newsletter detailing all there is to see and do -- for specific dates and times while onboard . So yes , times can change , and meal times can change accordingly as well , so in the end you 'll have to check with your operator and whether they have any special time-operations on the ship you 're travelling on .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
Yes , <URL> are deducted from your credit limit . That 's actually the whole point : it 's not there just for the minibar or laundry , but because the hotel wants to be sure they can charge your credit card for the accommodation at the end of a stay . The alternative to credit is cold hard cash , but depending on the hotel you may need to pay quite a significant sum . Alternatively , for longer stays ( like the 14 days you mention ) , you may be able to negotiate weekly payments instead of a single hold to cover the lot . Another alternative is to book fully prepaid rooms online , so you pay in advance and have your full credit limit available by the time you actually arrive . You may still be asked for a small hold/deposit to cover minibar etc , but it will be a lot less .
There is the <URL> in Sweden . From the most <URL> it is 755 km
From your question and your comment I understand you want to stay in a town in La Alpujarra and use this town as " headquarters " to visit this area . Unfortunatelly there is no such town , due the Alpujarra is too big to go walking from any town to others . You can use the GR7 ( red line ) to go from most towns to others in La Alpujarra . Have you considered the option of walk the GR7 from Lanjaron to Nevada in two or three journeys ? If you need to stay in a town , I 'd recommend Trevelez , first because is the most attractive town in La Alpujarra and second because it has many interesting paths nearby . Also , it could be interesting the <URL> site .
Use the <URL> to find the best exchange rate in the city ( <URL> works great for Russian ) : As of today , <URL> has the best rates .
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
Traveling is a personal experience and the things you will need really depend on what you want to do . If you are going on holiday where you will be doing a bunch of things , I will pack all the necessary things I need at home and not worry too much about my trip . To cut to the chase , here 's my list of essentials : Shades or sunglasses , do n't forget them . If you are a swimmer or just to want to make yourself wet in a pool , have a pair of your swimming clothes and goggles . A laptop , assuming you do n't want to escape the rat race . Condoms , assuming you are married and want to have sex with your partner without the risk of making her pregnant . A towel , good to have when you are lying somewhere on a beach . Novels or books in general . Will help you enjoy long flights where passengers setting next to you are as grumpy as Donald Trump . Do some research on what to read and what 's new . It all depends on your interest . ( I carry my Kindle all the time ) . A flashlight . Good to have when you are out on a beach at night , or travel to an unknown land where you need to find your way around in the dark . Cash in local currency . And make sure you have some singles . You can do this after you land in your destination . Research the place before you travel . With that , you are making sure about what to do and where to go . Travel documents . Make sure you have them on you at all times . Shit happens , and you never know when . Have both the two and three pin plug adapters for your computer or electronic devices . A multi-adapter might be even better . Make sure you have your chargers in your handbag or backpack . Your credit card . Inform your bank that you are traveling so that they do n't block your card when they see a charge from a place in a far away land . At least that 's what I need to do in the US . A pen and paper . Training clothes and shoes . Most hotels will not let you use their facility in flip-flops . Last but not least , a nice backpack .
<URL> , the price starts to skyrocket 30 days before the departure date . Quoting it , [ Within 29 days ] the increase began to accelerate and once you were within 14 days the fares really shot up dramatically . Their graph :
Ok , I was in Cairo in 2007 . With the tensions some may have changed , but here are my suggestions : Alexandria - it 's only a few hours away , and there are connections to get there ( my tour company just offered a day trip before the tour started ) . It was fantastic and I 'm so glad I got to it - the new Great Library is cool , lots of old monuments and Egyptian heritage around , and the seafood was so good ! the churches - there are a variety of historical churches . This is important because as Egypt is now 97 % Muslim , it 's important to realise that this was n't always the case . There are three main ones I 'd recommend - the Coptic Church , the ' Hanging Church ' which is something to be seen to understand and is also allegedly where the Holy Family stayed at one point , and of course , the Citadel and Mosque of Mohamed Ali Pasha up above Cairo for a spectacular view , although quite smog filled . Obviously , the pyramids and Sphinx in Giza . Easy to get to , and yes , you 've seen them a thousand times in pictures , but nothing beats seeing them in person . And it blew my mind that you were actually able to enter one - made my day ! Not good if you 're claustrophobic though . Egyptian Museum - I was shocked that I actually had to argue with my group to extend a 30 min visit to 45 minutes for this . Fortunately we had a rest day when we came back through Cairo , so I was able to spend most of a day here - it 's spectacular , an absolute gem if you like your history , and even if you do n't - the Mummy Room - with kings and queens of past - it 's incredible that you can be so close to royalty in that way ( if a little weird ) . There are obviously lots of local attractions like the Nile felluca rides , sheesha , and the Cairo Tower , but I 'm trying to write about trips that take a good part of a day , if not all of it . I hope that helps .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
You might not have a seat . In European trains , the seat reservation is independent from the train pass . Some trains require a seat reservation ( TGVs in France ) but not all . In German countries ( at least Germany and Austria ) it is possible to buy a train ticket and then a seat ticket . You can also buy it anytime ( as long as there are seats left ) and the price is always the same ( apparently 3-3 ,5 $ in Austria ) In practice , what will happen if you do n't pay for the seat is that you 're gon na go through the coaches and search for a free seat . In Austria , it apparently is written on the seat whether it is reserved . Most of the time you 'll find a seat , since trains have hundreds of seats , but you might look for some time . For long-distance trains ( like ICEs across Germany ) the seat will be used by several passengers throughout the trip so you might need to switch seat if it is reserved for a short part of the trip . Another important parameter is peak hours . I suppose the train will be pretty full then . Especially on Railjet trains , that are apparently operating on the main lines of Austrian network . For more details : <URL>
I fly either that route ( as part of a GRU-SCL-AKL-MEL ) or the GRU-SCL-SYD-MEL route about 8 + times a year , though typically in business . There are really only two airlines to get you from SAO to AKL , and they 're Qantas and LAN , who each code-share the other 's flights . LAN 's fares are usually cheaper tha Qantas , even for exactly the same flight ( ie a LAN-marketed-fare on a Qantas-operated flight ) . The service and amenities in business at least are almost identical on both the LAN and Qantas flights out of Santiago ( SCL ) . In economy I suspect Qantas will be better , as I do n't think LAN have seat-back entertainment in economy . Because of the lack of competition on these routes , you will not find great variance between days of the week , especially if booking from further out . As the date gets closer , the weekends and Monday and Friday tend to book up , leaving only the higher fare classes aqvailable , so 1-4 weeks out you may see perhaps as much as a 20-30 % difference in fare between a mid-week flight and the other days . But this depends entirely on what has filled up . I recommend you book a LAN-marketed flight on Qantas metal , via an OTA such as Expedia . This is likely to be the best value .
There is the <URL> card system , which you can get at the GO station , but not all subway stations currently accept it ( many a tourist would use do ) . All streetcars apparently now do accept it . If you are primarily visiting the downtown core , you 'll probably be taking the subway and streetcars , and less so buses . At subway stations you can usually pay in cash ( and get change ) if you need to , though the fare is higher . Streetcars can accept exact fare change . It 's a a stored-value card - you can charge it with a credit card at the ticket window of a GO station . It is zone system so you must tap it on entry and exit or you could be charged more than you trip should cost ( if you miss the exit tap ) or fined ( if you are riding effectively without a ticket ) . See the FAQ for information on refunds - I only have direct experience charging it for GO bus trips for my son . It seems to say that you could get an immediate refund of less than $ 50 balance , less 4 % service charge , otherwise you might have to wait for months . The TTC also has a day pass for $ 12 , which you could consider . The TTC fare using Presto is 2.90 CAD vs. 3.25 cash . Presto also gives you a ~ 11 % discount on the GO train fares ( probably around $ 10 each way from Burlington to Union Station ) . You can also buy TTC tokens at 3 tokens for $ 8.70 ( 2.90 per trip if you use them all ) . They 're really light and small - like an aluminum dime , take care they do n't get lost . Personally , for a day or two , I would suggest buying a return ticket for cash or credit card at the GO station and picking up some tokens ( credit and debit accepted over $ 10 ) at the subway station - and keeping it simple . ( Or use Presto and load it with the GO fare plus $ 12 or so for the day ) . For future reference , TTC tokens are due to be eliminated in favor of Presto , but that will not happen until mid-2017 . Edit : With regard to borrowing your host 's Presto card , yes it is explicitly allowed and would be an excellent solution : Can more than one person use the same PRESTO card to travel at different times ? Yes , PRESTO cards are transferable . If you are using a card that has a concession fare set , you must also be eligible for any discounted fares set on the card ( i.e. child , student , senior ) . A student , senior or child may use an adult 's PRESTO card to travel at full adult fare . However , an adult may not use a student 's , child 's or senior 's PRESTO card to travel . Also , there is no problem at all using your credit card to refill your host 's Presto .
If the flush mechanism does n't work Flush manually : In fact in many developing countries or even elsewhere such as out in the bush you can find modern toilets without running water . All you need to do is find a large container , fill at as full as you can manage , and pour it into the bowl . The faster you poor and from the greater height the better . But start slow and low because if you are too aggressive you can cause icky splashing . The mechanism is often easy to fix : Take the lid off the cistern . Be careful if it 's ceramic it will be heavy . You can break it or your toe if you drop it . There is usually a string , wire , or chain connecting some kind of lever , float , and rubber seal . Often this gets caught on something causing the plug not to reach the seal or not to close it fully . Sometimes the string , wire , or chain has come loose from one end and can be reattached without any special tools . Sometimes it can help to bend the arm the float is attached to for fine adjustments if the plug almost reaches the seal but not quite . If the bowl is blocked See if there is a plunger near the toilet or in a cupboard . If your 5-star hotel has a kitchenette and there 's a plunger there but not in the toilet , then maybe throw it away after cleaning up , or at least leave it in the toilet room . If there is no plunger to be found then the " manual flush " method above may be stronger than the built-in flush if you can drop in a lot of water at once from a great enough height without making a mess . This is much safer in " low water " toilets than with the " high water " toilets typically found in North America . Let it soak and come back from time to time when the water level has gone down and flush again . Again be careful with " high water " toilets as in North America - they are notorious for overflowing in such conditions . If you are a man , aim your stream at the obstacle each time you go . This will break it up . These techniques are hampered if you used too much toilet paper . If you are in a country where you do n't know the language , get online and look up the local words for " hardware store " and " plunger " . In my experience the latter can be quite tricky . I was in this situation once in Berlin , found at least half a dozen words for " plunger " , most of which must 've been regional words only known to people in other parts of the German-speaking world ! I also could n't find a hardware store and could n't find a plunger in a discount store . ( Lidl style or 1-euro-shop style ) DO NOT USE DRANO !! Caustic pipe un-blocking products are not intended for use with toilets . They can melt the wax used to seal the ceramic toilet to the pipes . You can create a far worse situation this way . ( Non-caustic products should be fine though . ) If all else fails You can use this situation to work on your problems of finding natural bodily functions embarrassing . Go tell somebody working at the hotel . If it 's a 5-star hotel they specialize in being discreet about far far worse things their guests might do . If you can not bring yourself to overcome this personality defect then you can leave an apology note somewhere the housekeepers will find it before finding the surprise you left them . You can even include a tip . The housekeepers have definitely dealt with this situation and much worse before . If you just leave it they are pretty used to that .
~ 15 hours is not that long to be on the road in Argentina . ;-) You can indeed save time by flying , but if you 're not in a hurry , buses are comfortable and a lot cheaper . ( Especially since foreigners have to pay more than locals on Aerolíneas Argentinas , or so I 've heard/read ) . A site called <URL> * is great for checking Argentine bus timetables &amp; buying tickets ( you can print them ) . Locals turned me onto it ; it 's handier than checking websites of individual operators . With a quick look , 3 companies ( Crucero Del Norte , Rio Uruguay , Expreso Singer ) run services between BA ( Retiro ) and Puerto Iguazú , totalling 12 daily departures , with travel time around 17 -- 19 hours and prices from 912 to 1203 $ AR ( USD 107 -- 141 ) [ as of November 2014 ] . * Plataforma 10 seems to cover most Argentinian bus companies , but unfortunately not all . At least <URL> also operates the Buenos Aires -- Puerto Iguazú route but you ca n't find it on Plataforma 10 . I agree <URL> that you should definitely pay the ( smallish ) extra amount for " cama " , " cama suite " or " cama ejecutivo " ( or whatever the best option is called ) for longer trips . With the fully reclining seat you 'll get at least some sleep . But reserve early , as these seats tend to get sold out first ! ( I speak with experience from 21 hrs in semi-cama . )
In theory , a mountain hut should never send away a tired tourist , especially if he does n't have a chance to reach another safe place before sundown . But in summer some of the huts are so full , that tourist need to sleep in dining room on the floor . In Slovakia , the huts range from small , with capacity of 20 people , to large with capacity of over 100 people . I suggest checking <URL> for information about the hut , find their phone number and under you can check their capacity . As for tents , most of Tatra area is a national park , and in such you are not allowed to camp or walk away from marked hiking tracks .
end question
start question
Pitching own tents at Sambhar lake in Rajasthan ?
There are no notices posted any where at Sambhar lake that you can or can not pitch tents there . There is <URL> to prevent you from doing that either . Legally speaking it is government land and is part of a wild life reserve and you are not allowed to pitch tents there . My advise to you would be to pitch your tents near the Sambhari devi temple where there is a small shop as well and a few people live there including the priest and his family so just talk to them and let them know what you intend to do . Sambhri temple also has a small parking area where they may allow you to pitch your tent as that is where I parked through the night as " Neel gai " roam on the lake bed even at night besides some other animals .
It depends primarily on the airline policy . The only airline I believe is Royal Brunei Airlines which allows consumption of personal alcohol on-board because it does not serve any on the aircraft . Any airline which serves alcohol on-board typically does not allow consumption of personal alcohol . I suspect the reason for this is to maintain decorum during the flight and prevent people from drinking too much which would compromise the safety of other passengers including the intoxicated person in tense situations . As mentioned in the question , the <URL> prohibits alcohol which is not served by the certificate holder operating the aircraft . So , this rules out the United States . Most airlines do n't provide any specific information about it in their General Conditions of International Carriage for Passenger and Baggage . If you want to look up for a specific airline , the Conduct Aboard the Aircraft ( Article 11,12 or 15 typically ) can provide information regarding the same . One example we can talk about is airlines which <URL> on their flights : <URL> does not allow it in any form Saudi Arabian Airlines does not serve or permit passengers to carry or drink alcoholic beverages on its flights . <URL> does n't serve alcohol but allows you to carry some and consume on board ( does not specify domestic or international waters ) . It also does not mention anything regarding this in their <URL> . <URL> does not allow it in any form You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free or otherwise obtained ) Another example we must talk about is European airlines which do serve alcohol : <URL> serves alcohol but does not allow passengers to consume their own alcohol . It is forbidden to consume any alcohol which you may have personally brought on board . <URL> also serves alcohol but <URL> . Passengers are not allowed to consume the alcoholic beverages they bring on board during the flight , including duty-free items purchased at the airport or on the plane . <URL> follows the same policy as the others 15.4 The Carrier may limit or prohibit the consumption of alcohol on board the aircraft . Consumption of any alcoholic beverages carried into the aircraft by Passengers or consumption of any duty free product bought on board the aircraft is prohibited . So does <URL> For safety reasons , consumption of alcohol by passengers is restricted to alcohol served by us , with the result that alcohol purchased by passengers ( whether as duty free purchases at airports or aboard aircraft or other purchases ) can not be consumed aboard our aircraft . Now , airlines in Asia which also serve alcohol : <URL> does n't say it specifically but it implies that personal alcohol consumption is not allowed Passengers are also permitted to consume their own snacks and non-alcoholic drinks on board . <URL> says it quite specifically Except for the alcoholic drinks provided by CEAIR flights , Passengers shall not have any other alcoholic drinks on board the aircraft . <URL> does not either Drinking of any alcoholic drinks on board an aircraft is permitted only in amounts offered by the airline . <URL> has the same policy as the others You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free from us or someone else or otherwise obtained ) unless it has been served to you by us . We have the right , at any time and for any reason , to refuse to serve you alcohol or to withdraw alcohol which has been served to you .
Paragliding is possible around Lake Toba , there even was <URL> , however it seems the sport has not quite picked up as you report that companies used to fly around there , @Madlozoz reports in a comment frequently going there for weekends and never having seen them and the conclusion of the answer by @Nathan Shoesmith is the same . I found two other leads that might be worth contacting if you are very willing to do the trip ( I 'm not contacting anyone without a personal interest but you might want to ) : <URL> has paragliding pics from the festival but also a few months after and seems to have a flying-related store in Medan . There is an address , phone numbers and you could reach him via FB message . The site has reviews recent as 2015 . <URL> offers paragliding tours around Lake Toba ( I ca n't quite make out if there 's also single day activities but sure you could ask ) . There 's a contact form , no price info and the copyright is as of 2014 so not sure if that service is still running . They are based in Bekasi , West Java , <URL> Alternative 1 : Ask any of the providers of multiday-tours you found for a quote for a tandem flight around Lake Toba . If you pay right I can not imagine they would not be willing . Alternative 2 : There seems to be a more active paragliding scene in <URL> and the nearby <URL> is also of volcanic origin as well as fairly peaceful <URL> is <URL> I found several operators in the area through <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> even give a quote for a short flight : 300.000 / pax Now I am sure some of these links are inactive but others might not . If you are not satisfied with flying around the area there , you could always ask these guys for a quote for lake Toba . Also <URL> ( to which +1 ) offers tours around lake Toba and as mentioned above it would not hurt asking for the single-day lake Toba-version . I 'm afraid these are only leads at best but they might still be helpful to anyone stumbling upon this post .
Here 's my understanding ( based on lots of Russian travel ) : You can legally explore anywhere in Russia , except keep the following in mind : 1 ) Do n't forget about registration requirements . If you 're moving around a lot , this is likely a non-issue , but keep all your bus/train tickets , etc. . If you 're using a central hub city for radial day-trips , register in the hub city . 2 ) " Closed cities " : Some cities require a permit to get into ( typically ones with sensitive military-related industry ) . I do n't know whether it 's possible to get a permit unless you e.g. have a close relative there . Some cities ( e.g. many cities in the north of Krasnoyarsk Krai ) are closed only to foreigners , so locals may not know they 're " closed " . There 's a list here : <URL> 3 ) Border areas . Unless you 're in the process of legally crossing the border via an official crossing point , you need a border area permit to be there . The permit is possible to get but takes a long time ( around 2 months ) . Note that in some areas ( e.g. in the Arctic ) some areas may be defined as " border areas " despite being thousands of kilometers from the actual border . 4 ) Due to recent political tensions , I would STRONGLY advise to stay away from anything that is even remotely related to the military or any sensitive industry , especially if you 're carrying a camera , GPS-capable phone , etc. . Also , stay well away from any remote place with especially luxurious houses / " dachas " that appear to be well-guarded . 5 ) Some nature reserves have areas that are forbidden to enter ( or forbidden to enter without a special permit ) for reasons of nature conservation . These are usually marked . With all that said , seeing the little remote villages of " real Russia " can be very fun and rewarding !
The BKK has a handy list about <URL> in Hungarian but if you know the word " Közért " means " Grocery store " ( roughly ) then you can see one open 5am-10pm at the Népliget metró ( underground ) station . Also , it says the Relay store under ground is open from 4:30 am ( the one in the bus station above ground opens at 5:30 am ) and while their primary focus is newspapers , magazines and such they also sell candy bars and similar as you can see on this <URL> picture on the official Relay store page . I ca n't remember for sure but they might even have sandwiches . The Lipóti Pékség ( = Lipóti Bakery , VERY YUMMY ! not only their pastries but they partner with Cserpes diaries and they have some seriously tasty stuff ) <URL> says it 's also open from 5am . Similarly , they might have sandwiches but I am not sure either as I have n't been at this location .
We do it from Peru side . You have to go to <URL> port and buy one of the excursions they sell that could be just for a lake trip or you can stay one night with a family in Taquile or Amantani islands . That option is very recommendable . You also have the option to talk with a fisherman and negotiate a better price , but my advice is to buy a tourist excursion , because it 's not expensive and nobody there speaks English so you may end up visiting a beach or going to Bolivia because of a misspelling . " Can I see anything special ? " You will see how these people live every day without electricity and some other comforts of modern life .
I 'm afraid that , as of December 2015 , the only public luggage lockers in the city Marrakech can be found : At the ONCF railway station , <URL> At the Supratours bus station , <URL> At the Gare Routière ( bus station ) at Bab Doukkala , ibid . At the CTM bus station , <URL> The other option is to ask your hotel to keep your luggage after you check-in . If you are planning on visiting the Jardin before checking-in I will also suggest that you show up to your hotel and ask them to store the luggage for you . Now I do n't know if you can enter the Jardin with a suitcase . You can always try .
<URL> actually fulfilled all my prerequisites except the outdoor gym . It 's about a 25 minute walk straight to the west of Chinatown . If not actually natural it 's certainly nicely landscaped and full of trees and plants . It has a lake in one section though not a huge one . It has quite a few paths running all around it and a small number of local joggers . It even has a very large childrens ' playground , parts of which are useable for chin-ups . And at least when we were there not many kids were using it so we were n't disturbing anyone . Next time I went to the Botanical Gardens I found a very crummy outdoor gym at a site that 's mostly dug up for something new . It was only good for a couple of leg exercises though and did n't have any of the machines you see in parks around the world , nor did it have a chin-up bar or anything else for upper-body fitness . ( I 'd still love to hear about another place with a half-decent outdoor gym if one is reachable without a car . )
I used to ' get around this ' technicality by asking at the info desks at airports where there might be a power point to charge my laptop etc , even if I 'd spotted some . They 'd usually helpfully point out one , or say ' oh just use any you find ' . That way I figured I 'd be able to argue being covered if it came down to security yelling at me or worse . I 've also since seen some airports tape over power points , presumably because they do n't want it to be used . Others openly point to them , and indicate free Wi-Fi all around and so on . One view is that you can walk in - anyone 's welcome despite it being private property . They 're certainly happy for you to use their power and water in the washroom , on the assumption you 're a passenger as well . One could argue reasonable assumption in court if it came down to it , but it 'd be interesting to see how that went . <URL> notes that many airports have made quite the effort in deactivating outlets . <URL> to have power outlets for passengers to use . I think the difference between the Leaf incident and what you 're asking is that the guy was not somewhere he could reasonably be expected to be , with no reasonable expectation of use of their facilities . Much like if you use the electricity at your friend 's house , they 're unlikely ( I 'd hope ) to be able to sue you , the airport already offers you its facilities , and indeed wants to you spend time eating , dining and so on there . Of course , until this actually goes to court , we are not lawyers , and likely can not do much more than speculate on what would result , unfortunately .
It is currently impossible to cross the border at all . Recent info from <URL> ( which I have praised in <URL> ) as <URL> Since the April 2015 Nepal Earthquake , the Tibet Nepal border has been closed to foreign travelers . [ ... ] At this time , it is impossible to say when this border will reopen . [ ... ] For now , it remains impossible to say when exactly the border will reopen . And this is still all that can be said . You may have gotten hopeful by <URL> linked in <URL> above - however that precedes a massive rockslide just past the Chinese border buildings following heavy rains in July 2016 at Kyirong . You should give a good look to <URL> and especially the sections " When will the Tibet-Nepal Border Reopen ? " and " What Areas Are Closed ? " The author of the website/blog promises to update that article once there are changes and post <URL> as well . The old border in Zhangmu seems to be a ghost town by now and apparently there are no plans to re-open the border . While residents claim the street condition on the Nepal side is as before the earthquake , there is still the occasional ( fatal ) boulder that comes down , as reported in <URL> .
Nate is correct , because the Galley is loaded from the right ( and on a 737 is on the right hand side ( centre for bigger planes ) Page 6 of the <URL> PDF shows Boeing 747 design specs and how a plane is serviced while on the ground under normal circumstances . You 'll notice that the cargo is also loaded on the right hand therefore if a plane was being unloaded via stairs it would create a substantial hazard .
Here are some techniques . Unfortunately the best ones require either knowledge of Russian ( or a Russian-speaking friend , hostel employee willing to help , etc ) , or skillful use of Google Translate : There are many " Groupon-like " sites in Russia , selling gift cards for various activities . They tend to be city-specific , so I ca n't point you to specific sites . Search for " подарки активный отдых ( city-name ) " or something like that . These sites list a lot of sports activities at reasonable ( local ) prices . Once you find an activity you like , see if you can find the website for the operator of that activity . The trick here is to realize that many small activity operators do n't have real web pages , but instead have pages on the VKontakte ( vk.com ) social network . You usually do n't need an account to access these pages , and they often have prices listed , direct cell phone numbers for the operators , etc. . Try asking people on CouchSurfing in the city you 're interested in to help you find and book the activities . Many Russian cities , even small ones , have active CouchSurfing communities , and there may be people there speaking your language . Just make it very clear that you 're not looking for a place to stay , just some help with the language and perhaps someone to show you around . Ask around in good hostels
Unless you 're from a country that requires you to obtain an <URL> , there is no sharing of information as a general rule . Even in cases where there are information sharing agreements , such as between <URL> , <URL> , or in the <URL> , the information that is shared is about people from outside the info-sharing nations , but not about their own citizens . It may be possible for one country to ask for legal assistance to obtain information about a specific person , and who knows what information is shared by the secret services , of course , but on the visible side , countries do not know what their citizens do while away . EDIT As pointed out by @MeNoTalk , the <URL> , where airplane passenger data is transmitted to the destination country . Thus , your government may not know where you 're headed , but they will know from where you return , if you come back by plane .
Yelp says <URL> , there appear to be two . Yelp has filters to search for specific areas and opening hours ( see screen dumps below ) .
You can not overnight inside of most National Parks in your car , but you can in the National Forests than surround them . Crater Lake , for example , is surrounded by Umpquah National Forest . You can boondocks there for free . This screen shot from the " public lands " app for iPhone shows it : There are two " dispersed camping " areas - Twin Lakes and a shelter . Typically you just need to be 250 ' away from a road . Your best bet is to sleep in a tent , but often you can find a Forest road that you can park off of . Your absolute best bet is to find the forestry office or visitor center and ask there where the best place to sleep would be . Absent that , just find some place out of sight and you 'll be fine .
The general ( worldwide ) trend is probably to extend VOA but since visa rules are in a constant state of flux buying a visa from a Consulate should provide some reassurance that you wo n't be declined boarding due to the withdrawal of a VOA facility . VOAs can be cheaper than visas via Consulates which are easy money , so not promoted as heavily ( eg by visa agencies ) -- may account for some of your ( understandable ! ) confusion . Tanzania however is not trying to discourage tourists and the fees are the same either way ( <URL> for a German citizen ) . Waits seem to vary roughly <URL> so if on a very tight timescale via Consulate might get you out of the airport a little sooner . Note that Tanzania are fussy about the age and condition of notes if paying in USD -- not an issue is buying the visa at a Consulate . Also that VOAs for Tanzania are only valid for arrival at certain <URL> . Elsewhere there is no VOA option . <URL> . <URL>
Friends of friends stayed on Banda island this year , so it 's still up and running . I was told they liked it . Did you consider going up to Jinja ? I personally like Eden Rock ; it 's affordable and right next to the party venue that is Nile River Explorers , meaning you can choose to party and choose to take it easy without having to go far . Alternatively , I hear good things about the <URL> as well , which is on an island .
<URL> ( Saturday , 16 July 2011 ) From June , 17 to July 17 : On Friday , Saturday and Sunday From July , 18 to August , 31 : everyday From Bishkek : 06.25 , From Balykchy : 16.47 . Tickets are : adults - 69 soms , children - 35 soms . Support phones : 0312 418 107 , 0312 664 808 . See also : <URL> ( Whole site in Russian )
There 's no way you can get to the capital and back and make your flight . 1 hour 30 should be plenty of time to get to your departure gate . Keflavik is a well laid out airport which has all the gates within about 15 minutes walk . If I remember there are less than 40 gates in the entire place . My suggestion would be to explore the shops in the departure lounge .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
end question
start question
How can I buy advance tickets for Anne Frank House ?
According to their website , they only release some tickets online , so " Sold Out " does n't actually mean you ca n't go , only that the tickets released online have been sold out . From the <URL> they suggest their tickets may be bought out by scalpers : Resellers of our entrance tickets are active on the internet . They buy up our entrance tickets online , and attempt to sell them at a large profit , often for double the price . This is not permitted . Do not buy tickets from these organisations ; you may be refused entry . ... and in the <URL> ... I want to make a timed reservation using the online reservation system on the website , but I see that very few times are left available . Is the service really fully booked , or is there another way to make a reservation ? On the website you can see exactly what times are still available . If you still want to come at a particular time for which no more online tickets are available , then you can always buy tickets at the Anne Frank House entry desk . However , you may have to wait in the queue . The place is almost always busy as noted by many reviews online and from my own experience as well . Here are some tips ( some are common sense ) : Summer months ( especially July-August ) will be a lot busier than other times of the year . Go in winter when people are less inclined to queue outside . Weekends will be busier than weekdays . Check the <URL> and arrive a half-hour before opening ( or earlier ) . The wait times later in the day can reach over 3 hours ( in peak periods ) . Go in the evenings ( after 5 or 6pm ) when the queues are shorter . This wo n't work in Summer however . Some third parties may sell " general entrance tickets " but these wo n't let you skip the line , I think you need to exchange these at the ticket counter When purchasing tickets at the counter , they must be used then , so you ca n't purchase them for later in the day or another day You could try to join organised tours that claim they can <URL> . If you do manage to get a ticket online , this allows entry at a specific time on a particular day , and you wo n't have to wait in line , there is a separate entrance . Finally if you do see a line , <URL> Estimating the wait How can you gauge your time ? If the line is an L shape , ending just along the Westerkerk , that 's about an hour . If the line is an L shape but ends past the Westerkerk and at the Keizergracht canal , that 's two hours . If the line is a Z and has now turned at the Keizergracht canal and is running behind the Westerkerk , that 's three hours . Any longer , well , you do the math .
Actually it seems that the ticket distribution moved to Members of Congress only to combat <URL> going back to Clinton era . And then under George W. Bush under the claim that <URL> : '' The White House welcomes large numbers of visitors , consistent with previous administrations , '' said the White House spokesman , Ari Fleischer . '' The tours are free . We discourage the practice of having vendors or outside groups make a profit by charging unsuspecting tourists , including any tour that would charge money for access to the White House even as part of a larger tour . '' The unguided tours were still allowed on a first come first served basis by waiting in line : They recommend that visitors get their feet in the front door by standing in line at the White House Visitors ' Center ( the line sometimes starts before 5 a.m. ) or by contacting their representatives in Congress , who receive tickets for guided tours for their constituents . ( The public tours are unguided . ) You can take a look at <URL> which has a lot of good references on the changes to tours over the years but ticket distribution went completely to Members of Congress in 2003 as an additional " security " measure following the 9/11 attacks .
<URL> , it 's 54 days in advance . At least in 2013 it was . Quoting the article , [ They ] monitored 4,191,533 trips . For each trip -- that is , a flight from city A to city B on a specific date with a specific trip length -- we looked at prospective fares over about a 10 1/2 month booking window , ranging from 320 days in advance , to 1 day in advance , including every possible booking date in between . It adds up to a database of 1.3 billion air fares -- and a serious headache for those who were tasked with making sense of it !
If you try and use the contactless Oyster twice in a row ( ie to let a second person through on your card ) for a trip from A to B , it 'll error . You 're required to touch out first before you can touch in again , and then the first person would n't be allowed to travel as they 've touched out at A. Source : <URL> : Number of people using an Oyster card Only one Oyster card can be used per person per journey . That means if you are travelling in a group , each person will have to use a separate Oyster card , or find another way to pay for their journey . Second Source : I 've tried this . And asked about it at the time . You need one card for each travelling passenger . Third source : <URL> Note : This is for Oyster cards , the primary TFL cards when I was in London . For other recent contactless cards , <URL> .
You could try contacting Luhambo tours , who do daily tours leaving from Cape Town . Small groups with specialised wine guides . +27 21 551 04 67 . If you want to do it yourself , maps , information on vineyards that receive and accommodate visitors and advice on getting to them are all available from the very helpful people at the <URL> in Stellenbosch . Also have a look at Wikitravel 's page on the <URL> . It mentions several other tour companies that include half-day and single day tours . Quite a range of prices too ! It also lists down the bottom the famous wine estates of the region , including their opening times and contact details .
As was explained in the comments : The way that all the airline booking systems work , it is not possible to have people on different booking ( fare ) classes on the same ticket . If you have two people on the same flights in the same booking classes , it 's fine . If you have two people on the same flights but different booking classes ( could be business and economy , or even just flexible vs non-flexible economy ) , then they must be on different tickets and PNRs . You therefore need to make two different bookings for you , one for the people in one booking class ( + cabin ) , one for the people on the same flight but in the other booking class . Your best bet in this case is to skip the internet , and talk to ( shock horror ! ) a person . Be that a travel agent , or the airline 's booking line , either should work . They will create the two itineraries for you , hold them while you confirm you 're happy and double check that everything else is the same , then ticket the two for you . They should also be able to attach notes to indicate the bookings are linked . Oh , and one thing to be aware of , because you 'll have two bookings , if there 's a problem with the flight and it gets cancelled , you will almost certainly have to speak with another human . Otherwise , you may find that you and your wife are re-routed one way , your kids another , because the automated re-booking system wo n't necessarily know to keep the two together because they 're on different bookings . Note that if by " mixed-class tickets " what you means was the more common " one way in economy , return in business " or something like that , then many ( but not all ) online flight booking systems will be able to sell you the ticket , as will the airline or a travel agent .
German railway tickets can usually be booked online 91 days in advance , see <URL> under " Terms and conditions " for flexible tickets . Discount offers may have different conditions : Pre-sales deadline : From 91 days until shortly before departure There are some exceptions however . If e.g. a timetable change is scheduled and the new timetable is not yet fixed , a booking may still not be possible less than 91 days in advance .
Oh I know this pain . As a citizen you can presumably count as a permanent resident ( as you 've not officially emigrated to any other country ) of Australia , meaning that you could look at the policies of <URL> . I used them during a similar period in my life ( Kiwi here ) .
Saturday they are available , but does n't look like they are available on Sunday : From <URL> : Public tour requests must be submitted through one 's Member of Congress . These self-guided tours are available from 7:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Tuesday through Thursday , 7:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays ( excluding federal holidays or unless otherwise noted ) . Tour hours will be extended when possible based on the official White House schedule . Tours are scheduled on a first come , first served basis . Requests can be submitted up to six months in advance and no less than 21 days in advance . You are encouraged to submit your request as early as possible as a limited number of spaces are available . All White House tours are free of charge . ( Please note that White House tours may be subject to last minute cancellation . ) If you wish to visit the White House and are a citizen of a foreign country , please contact your embassy in Washington , DC for assistance in submitting a tour request .
I would worry less about the Shanghai-Beijing train being full than the Hong Kong-Shanghai train - unless you travel over Chinese new year or another holiday . There are trains in intervals of 10-40 minutes and should allow you to at least get on the next train in case the current one is full . There is a website that lets you check the availability of seats on each train in advance , so you can get a picture which times of the day are the most busy . Since the website is blocked here for some reason , go to <URL> " Do tickets sell out ? " . Go to the linked page and do a train search , then click on " More Details " . It will show you how many seats are still free . For example , the 7:00 am train for tomorrow morning still seems to have over 500 seats free . If you do not feel comfortable with this information , I would consider asking directly the question " How full are the Shanghai-Beijing trains on normal Weekdays/Weekends " .
You should not have an issue finding a good hotel in Shanghai or Hong Kong . There are plenty of them in both cities and they are well advertised , especially to tourists . For you it would come down to prices . With early planning , you can easily find very good hotels for a fair price . Both of these two cities are very expensive but if you dont mind the pricing , go ahead and book whenever you arrive there .
That is more or less correct . Tickets are available starting 5 days before departure and have to be bought in person . Travel agencies can act as a proxy to buy on your behalf , but they also have to physically go to the train station to buy your ticket . I would guess this agency 's specification of dates has been simply padded a bit to cover things like holidays , weekends or such that might delay buying or sending tickets .
Slightly more than a year ago , on 2011-12-30 CET , as a German citizen , I bought a prepaid card in an <URL> shop in <URL> / Les Halles , Paris . That 's an 11 min travel by public transport ( <URL> ) from Arc de Triomphe . The price for the card was 5 EUR , incl . 5 EUR of credit . I then charged the card with 15 EUR , bought at a <URL> just around the corner , because in the Orange shop that was not possible . The Orange card has an option called Internet max that can be activated either in the SIM card menu somewhere under Multimedia , or online . See the screenshot below : Currently it offers 500MB for 9 EUR per month . Activation of the option took some hours . Tethering did not work , but I believe that it 's possible to hack around that . Note that in the shop they told me that with a standard Orange prepaid card the data option is not available . They are wrong !
If you buy items at the Dublin Airport duty-free , ask the staff to place your items in a sealed bag . <URL> You will be allowed to take this bag through security , but it must remain sealed until you arrive at your destination . All liquid , gel and paste purchases will be placed in a clear plastic Travel Value bag and sealed at the point of purchase . The receipt must remain clearly visible . This bag must not be opened until final destination is reached . Opening or tampering with this sealed bag may result in confiscation at security check .
No , there are multiple zones , mostly you have to cross from one zone to another , hence pay more . Here 's the metro zone map : They sell <URL> , you need two units ( tickets ) if you 're traveling within a single zone , three units when in two zones ( e.g. from A to B ) and four if you 're traveling between three zones . The easiest way would be getting the tickets at stations , there are vending machines and also sometimes cashiers selling those tickets .
For some reasons pressure cookers are not so popular in Poland . It might be related to bad fame they 've got following some accidents decades ago . However , they are making their comeback and it 's possible to buy them . You can use meta-search to look for " szybkowar " , for example <URL> . This is mainly for buying on-line , but many of these stores are physical stores ( for example Saturn , Media-Markt , EURO ) .
There are a few ways to visit Antarctica . Remember that nothing is ever guaranteed and it 's quite possible with weather that you might not make it there . Cruises : Larger cruises often will get you close but not to the land . You 'll have the comforts of cruising . These big ships may be regulated soon . Smaller ships will often let you get right onto land . Costs start at least $ 5k ( for the ultra cheap ) . Tailored Expeditions : Many companies run specialty expeditions which let you visit Antarctica exactly how you want . Prices are extremely high for this . Airborne : You get to fly over Antarctica . This is the more ecological way to see it but does n't have the same experience as actually walking on it . This is also the cheapest option .
In April , the only period to watch out for would be <URL> at the very end of the month ( April 29-May 5 ) , when transport gets packed . Early April will be fine though , and you 'll have no problem reserving seats on the same day .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
In general you should n't see what you 're seeing here - especially for multiple dates , which makes me think that it 's possibly either a website error , or a scam of some form . Airlines do have multiple prices for each flight , and a limited number of seats available in each class . ie , one specific flight might have 5 seats available for $ 100 , another 10 seats for $ 200 , another 10 for $ 400 , and the remaining seats for $ 600 . The earlier you book , the better your chances of getting the lower fares . Over time they may change the number of seats in each class - such as if the flight has a lot of free seats and they are n't selling at the top prices they might move them back down to the lower levels . * If it happens that there 's exactly 1 seat left at a particular price , and you try and buy 2 seats , most travel websites will bump BOTH tickets up to the higher price . So based on what you 're seeing it 's possible that there 's only 1 seat left at $ 350 , and trying to get 2 bumps you up to the $ 600 price . However the odds of that being the case on multiple dates is low . In general the cheapest place to buy airfares within the US is the airline itself . If you check there do you see the same low price you 're seeing on despegar.com ? * This is an oversimplification of how things actually work , but it 's close enough for you to get the idea . Google for airline inventory management for more details .
end question
start question
What 's the best way to get sleep on a train in a sitting compartment ?
Get a Window Seat When I reserve a seat on train ( or a plane , for that matter ) , knowing that I would like to sleep during the journey , I often book a window seat . That way I can lean my head on the window , rather than having it hanging in the void , causing me to wake up every ten minutes as soon as the neck ache kicks in . Moreover I place a jumper/t-shirt/soft-layer between my head and the window . This layer acts as a pillow and temperature insulator . As the comments below suggest , the windows seat is also strategically placed so that you will not be woken up when your neighbour needs to go to the bathroom . However , you can always climb on top of the seat , or find another acrobatic way out , in case you are the one who needs to go to the bathroom . From my point of view it is better to be the one climbing over rather than to be climbed over . Pack for Sleeping If you want to sleep , bring sleeping gear . Since you are travelling by train , you do n't have to abide by weight rules for your carry-on . So you can pack as much gear as you like . For me , necessary ca n't - sleep-without-it gear includes : Sleeping mask Ear plugs Travel pillow Some form of cover : blanket , jacket , sleeping bag Anticipate Pickpockets As others have mentioned in the comments : sleeping on a long-haul night train makes you a target for pickpockets/thieves , especially if you do n't have the extra safety of being inside a private/locked compartment . To be fair there is not much you can do to make yourself , and your stuff , completely 100 % thieve-proof . More so if you are sleeping in an unlocked , unsupervised space . What you can do however is make sound assumptions on thieve behaviour and plan ahead . Your objective should be to make your stuff less appealing for thieves because it requires more effort on their part to take it . <URL> and <URL> are some general pickpocket-prenvention tips . <URL> Below is a summary of what I think are the most relevant points for the purpose of sleeping in a train : Keep your money/documents/phone / valuables on you , either in your pockets or in dedicated supports ( for example money belts ) . Clothes and other less-valuable items can go in your rucksack/suitcase . If you have a small backpack/laptop bag , strap/clip/tie it to some fixed support . This can be either your leg , the seat itself , the table between seats , etc. . The point is that anchoring the bag to a fixed support makes it harder to be snatched away . Similarly , you can also strap/clip/tie your rucksack/suitcase to , for example , the luggage rack . Once again this makes it harder to snatch . Lock the zippers on all your bags with padlocks/zip-ties/key-ring / paper-clips . This will obviously make the bag harder to get into . Make sure that the topmost item in your backpack/rucksack/suitcase is something that a thief would have no interest in taking . My personal favourite are dirty underwear and socks , kept in a plastic bag with its opening towards the opening of the backpack . This way its content is the fist thing a potential thief would see , when accessing the bag . I always laugh when picturing what their face would look like . Final Remarks Having said this , note that I somewhat agree with <URL> : If you 're determined to avoid paying for a couchette , [ and fail to find anything else but a standard ( non-foldout ) seat ] book a couchette -- what you 'll spend is less than what you 'd waste by arriving at your next destination too fatigued to enjoy it . This is especially true in case of long-haul train journeys such as the one you mention . Moreover , couchette compartments can be locked from the inside adding an extra level of safety for you and your belongings .
It does depend what ticket you have , and who you 're with . If you are delayed on another RailTeam service , the <URL> feature means that you may not even need to rebook ( depends on the station ) , but if you do it 'll be easy . ( Keep the ticket from the delayed service though ! ) If you bought a domestic ticket that included <URL> , eg <URL> or <URL> , when you get to the Eurostar station you need to queue up at the ticket office , show them the ticket for the delayed service , and they 'll re-issue you with a new ticket for the next available Eurostar . If the delay means you missed the last train of the night , they 'll have to sort you out with accommodation too . If you do n't have a domestic ticket with CIV protections , then <URL> as soon as things go wrong , so they can put a note on your account that you may miss your Eurostar due to delays . Next , try to find someone from the train company who has delayed you to write on your ticket / give you a bit of paper confirming the delay . This bit is n't required , but it does seem to help ! Finally , when you get to the Eurostar terminal , queue up at the ticket desk , explain about the delay , show them the ticket for the delayed train , tell them you 've already spoken to customer services , and ask nicely . ( Whether or not you are already covered by CIV at this point is something that has n't been tested in court , so no-one 's quite sure , ditto for onward connections after ) . Generally , if you 'd left enough time had the delay not happened , Eurostar will re-book you onto the next available service . If you 're delayed getting to the Eurostar station by something other than a train , YMMV , so it 's probably best to leave more time for that . If you 're getting a long distance Eurostar ( eg a once-a-week train to the south of France ) , get there early as even if they can get you there another way , it 'll take longer and not be as good ! If you can buy a domestic ticket with <URL> , that 's the best as you know you 'll be fine . Otherwise , Eurostar are generally very friendly and helpful , and when I 've been delayed on a train getting to St Pancras they 've always helped me out :)
You can use ola/uber to go around but if you are not able to find any then just hop into any taxi . If you end up going in a local taxi then only pay the amount which comes up in the cab meter , do not pay even a single extra penny . During peak hours the traffic on Mumbai roads is crazy . I would suggest you to keep an hour and a half as buffer to have a relaxed visit to the mall . Bus services in Mumbai shut by 12:00 AM mostly so it will not be possible for you to get a bus at that time .
I 've done a tour of the Salt flats in January 2010 which is the summer down there and even then it got cold at night because it is pretty high up - 3,656 meters ( 11,995 ft ) . I did a tour with a local operator as everybody else did , there are dozens of 4x4s out there every day . The accommodation was indeed very basic , especially on the second night . We started in Uyuni and went south , the first night you stay in a small village but the second night is in the middle of nowhere with just a few basic buildings for tourists to spend the night . I 've been inside some of the other buildings but they all looked pretty much the same . You could mention your concerns to your tour operator and ask for the best accommodation there is , but I do n't think there is much choice . It 's not a place where you wonder around and ask for a room , it seems all pre-arranged . I do remember taking some sort of shower and I think it was at least a bit warm . But I do n't remember a fireplace or heating . There were basic beds with blankets and I do n't think I was cold , ( maybe all the wine helped ) but I can imagine it to be very cold in the winter . Several people in our building had severe problems with altitude sickness and going down was no option , so make sure you take some time before going up there . So , just do n't expect any luxury up there and bring warm clothes .
I am not from around your area , but prospecting has always been an interest of mine . <URL> looks at the general information relating to prospecting in the US , a link from that article <URL> provides more detail . <URL> has many links pertaining to the rules , regulations and locations of the gold-panning areas in the Pacific Northwest . I hope this helps .
Funnily enough , there 's scientifically exact solution to this - it 's known as the <URL> and is considered to be NP-complete - it is expected that no algorithm can be both correct and fast ( polynomial-time ) on ALL cases . But naturally there are tips and suggestions to help guide you towards an optimal solution . Running shoes , it 's good to remember , have space inside them . Stuff socks , chargers and whatever else fits into them ! Oddly , I pack my jacket last . As you 've pointed out it takes tons of space if put in first , no matter how you fold it . But I find I can stuff it in no matter what at the end , and it means it 's easily accessible if the weather changes . I also find that ' hard ' solid items ( netbooks ) can make room for themselves after the fact . I 'll just force-slide it down the back of my pack , and it never seems to not fit :) Now , for the main set of clothes , assuming you have ' sets ' , the Bundle wrap method saves a lot of space and keeps stuff quite well folded and together . See <URL> . Also <URL> . And I ca n't answer this without linking to <URL> - it 's famous among minimalist travellers for giving you suggestions about what to keep/lose to lighten your load or fit more in .
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
For such broad flight searches , a matrix flight search engine is the optimal solution . You could use for example <URL> . I did a simple search for you : For that search query I used Berlin , Germany and all surrounding airports within 1000 miles as origin and all major airports in Vietnam as destination . The screenshots shows the cheapest flight for all the days between 1 . of July and 1 . of August . As you can see , the cheapest flight is available for 386 $ . When we check the details for this flight we see the following : Mysteriously , the flight is now only 361 $ . As you can see the flight departures from Prague and flies to Ho Chi Minh City via Frankfurt . The involved Airlines are Czech Airlines and Vietnam Airlines . The cheapest non-stop flight from Europe to Vietnam I could find is available for 572 $ : It is a non-stop flight from Paris to Ho Chi Minh City with Vietnam Airlines : So generally , I would recommend that you use such flight search engines to find the cheapest and most convenient route for you .
For incoming items ( including most of the major meteor streams ) coming from the North to Easterly direction , and not too bad for West of North as well ( not so good for from the South ) East the utterly marvellous location to beat most others is Glover park above the cliffs to the East of St Heliers Bay . You may be able to drive up Waitara Rd and Park - but large numbers of other cars may wish to dance with you , and a short walk from nearby is often wise . You can walk up the road , but a wander through Glover Park in the dark adds to the mystique . You get to look into an almost completely dark horizon . Some lights on Waiheke . A lighthouse sweep bright but far off on Tiritiri Matangi . Great barrier &amp; Coromandel maybe a few dim gleams . Rangitoto dark . I 've viewed the Perseids there and some others there . For meteor streams that come from a radiant and then appear to travel in all directions from it you want as dark a sky as possible over as much of the ' Welkin ' as you can find . This location qualifies as you are on the coastal edge of the city with almost zero immediate civilisation and nothing very makor this side of South America . Access : You can come from Greenland and follow your GPS/Google-maps nose - Remuera Rd , St Johns Rd , St Heliers Bay Rd , ... OR Go along the waterfront - a nice drive even at 3am - to St Heliers and follow Glover Road up from the far end of the bay . If you want a guide / add on and there is a major shower happening , let me know ... :-) . <URL> The reason it is so good can be seen in the larger scale map below . East Coast Bays almost certainly offer some good spots . Kennedy Park above Castor Bay is probably excellent . Shakespeare Regional Park at the end of Whangaparaoa is also probably excellent - but I do n't know what their rules are for night time visiting . And Fletcher 's Bay at the far tip of the Coromandel Peninsular is a special place . It will take you a day to drive there , the final road in is still gravelled and the drop offs are frightening . Dark as dark it will be . And ( over 40 years ago ) that 's where I met my wife :-) . <URL> Star gazing sites : chx 's top NZ sites list is interesting . All but one are in the South Island . I do n't know why Ngongotaha should be better than any number of other NI locations , but , having had it noted , I 'll have to find out why . The point about Glover Park is not it 's " ordinary " stars alone but how good it is for a wide dark view for meteorites . I was utterly stunned by it the first time I visited . After driving through the very well lit city , which I was well used to , to come on this sudden vast Oasis of darkness is amazing . Good for random meteorites and satellites at any time . Concern was expressed re low angle viewing of the " Lyrids " this week . If I 'd known that this was what it was about the answer could have accommodated it . ( Lyrids viewing information here ] ( <URL> As will be seen - information is given starting at 5 degrees above the horizon and then rising to 20 degrees + over the next 4 hours . The map below shows distance from site in 5km steps . The table shows height an obstacle would need to be to block a 5 degree view . Rangitoto , 5 km away manages about 260 m when 434m is needed and nothing else comes closer . A much better site would be hard to imagine . Draggable whole of New Zealand topographical map centred on Rangitoto <URL> Index <URL>
What the law says In California , as in most jurisdictions , exceeding any posted speed limit is considered speeding . You can be ticketed for going 1 MPH above , <URL> . You can also be cited for speeding if you are driving faster than a <URL> , even if it 's slower than the posted speed limit . In practice It 's all about staying " street smart " . Exceeding the posted speed limit is extremely common on California freeways , even in the right lane . In fact , driving at the posted limit slower than the flow of traffic is likely to be unsafe . If you drive no faster than the surrounding traffic , and you stay alert and slow down for the Highway Patrol , you are unlikely to get ticketed . Everyone follows the same reasoning , counting on " safety in numbers " . If you are the first car in a pack or the fastest car on a wide-open road , you are definitely at risk for a speeding citation . That said , if you do get cited for speeding , " going with the flow of traffic " is a defense that is not likely to work in court . None of what I said above constitutes legal advice .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
While growing up I had to turn on the heater before taking a shower and sometimes when its getting late , you really do n't have time to do that . Here 's some advice which might help . I 'm going to go ahead and assume that any hot water source is unavailable and you are in a frame of mind where the water is too cold !!! Step 1 - Making Peace with the Cold Water Okay so you do n't like cold water , the best way to make peace with it is to convince yourself that it 's not too cold . It 's like entering a cold swimming pool , if you dip your feet in it for a while , it 'll be easier for you to get in . When you wake up in the morning , your body temperature feels lower because you have n't had breakfast yet , that 's a good thing because it makes it easier to ease into the seemingly freakish cold water . If you happen to have a shower , then turn the shower on and let it gradually touch your feet first , followed by your hands . Keep the water running and slowly ease in from the extremities of your body all the way to your face . You face is the part which you 'll dread the most , so save it till the end after you feel like the body temperature going down . If you happen to have a jug and a bucket of water , follow the swimming pool strategy . Fill in the bucket halfway and dip your feet and hands in it . Then slowly start pouring down the cold water on your hands and proceed . One additional thing which might help is to have a towel on you . A towel which you could dip in the water and squeeze out/rub on your body will help . Step 2 - Taking the Leap of Faith You have to remember , practice makes a man perfect ! Doing it the first time is much harder than doing it the Nth time . After cooling down your body for a few minutes , hold your breath and step into the shower , as soon as you get into it , do n't chicken out ! The leap is the hardest , after it , it gets exponentially easier . Same goes with a bucket of water and jug , when you 're ready , repeatedly take a lot of water from the bucket and pour it over yourself . You start doing it , do n't stop ! Water in which you were dipping your hands or feet it will actually be warmer and make it a bit easier , which is why I feel using a bucket and jug is easier with cold water . Step 3 - Finish as soon as possible Remember , once you get into it , there 's no coming back , there 's no point doing the whole procedure from scratch again . So , keep pouring that cold water over you , it gets much easier when you keep doing it . Pause for short breaks only when you need to use soap or shampoo . Wash your body in little sections , torso at once , feet at once , hands at once etc. . After you 're done , get a fresh towel and hug yourself tight with it . I 've done the exact procedure I mentioned a several hundred times in my life quite comfortably , of course I like my hot water , but where there 's a will , there 's a way .
The standard way would be to take a train . The <URL> is the place to look for train schedules and prices , and you can book online and print most ticket types at home . The website normally shows the fastest routes only , but you can tell it to omit ICEs ( high-speed trains , often more expensive ) or to stick to regional trains ( slowest and usually cheapest ) . The bad news about German rail prices is that they are very complicated . The good news is that the DB trip planner will usually offer you the cheapest price for a given connection . The exception is that sometimes a day ticket is cheaper even for a single trip , and the website wo n't always tell you . Generally speaking , you will get a substantial discount if you decide on a day and time early and book a non-refundable , non-exchangeable ticket . These tickets can often give you high-speed travel for a similar price as regional trains . Some ticket types also include the possibility of local travel ( buses , trams , U-Bahn , S-Bahn ) at the beginning or end of the journey , check if it 's a possibility ( it 's rarely a deciding factor in choosing a fare type ) . At the moment , the cheapest fare I can see in October is 44 $ for a high-speed connection ( direct , or ICE most of the way with one change ) , if you avoid the heaviest-loaded peak hour trains , for a 4 1/2 to 5 hours journey time . Alternatively , you can pay 42 $ for a ticket that lets you travel on all regional trains in Germany for a day provided you start after 9am ( <URL> ) . Do note that Freiburg to Hannover is 10 hours on regional trains . If several of you are traveling on the same route , note that some ticket types offer considerable discounts for additional passengers . For example , the Quer-durchs-Land-Ticket is only 6 $ for each additional passenger traveling together . The <URL> , valid for one day on a Saturday or Sunday in regional trains only , is 39 $ for up to 5 people . Thus one possibility for cheap travel is to find someone who 's taking the same train anyway and offer to pay the add-on price . I do n't foresee this working well for a cross-country journey like yours though . Sometimes you can get cheap fares on budget airlines . These are often only attractive if you have a cheap way to get to and from the airport ; otherwise the cost of local transportation can be prohibitive . There 's no airport near Freiburg ; the closest is the <URL> , and a bus ticket to Freiburg is a whooping <URL> . If you do n't take the train and do n't fly , your other option is to hitch-hike . That can come out cheapest , if you find someone going the right way at the right time . If you 're traveling from the <URL> , the situation is quite different . Flying might be more attractive , though for this particular combination of cities it does n't seem to be : you ca n't fly direct to Hannover , only to Hamburg , and <URL> 's cheapest fare comes out at 41 $ ( including the booking fees in small type ) . The best train route is via Basel ( which you can <URL> by a <URL> <URL> ) ; this requires going through Switzerland ( which may be a problem for some visa types ) . ( While there are both an SNCF ( French railways ) station ( Basel/B âle SNCF ) and a DB ( German railways ) station ( Basel Bad Bf ) in Basel , they are separated by a few hundred meters of Switzerland . The SNCF station is next to the Swiss railway station , Basel SBB . Since Switzerland has joined <URL> , border checks are no longer systematic and Shengen visas are valid . ) At this time , the 44 $ rate from Basel Bad to Hannover is available if you travel near the middle of the day . Book early , as prices will rise towards the standard fare ( 119 $ ) as the travel day approaches . Many discount rates are also valid from Basel SBB ( which is where the bus from the airport drops you ) . There 's also a discount rate for international tickets from and to Germany , <URL> , but I 'm not sure if it 's available from Basel . There 's a direct night train as well ; it 's more expensive than the day train but can be less expensive than the day train plus a night in a hostel . If you need to avoid Switzerland , take a bus to Saint-Louis then French regional trains to Mulhouse and on to Strasbourg . You can look up the times , but not book , on the <URL> ( Saint-Louis is " St-Louis ( Haut Rhin ) " ) . You can look up times and prices on the <URL> ( French only as far as I can see ) ; there are no discounts for advance purchase on regional trains , so buy your ticket when you arrive at the station .
I found a helpful video for exactly this problem - and it 's an easy solution : just put a pillow under your midsection and your spine will be much better supported . <URL>
Hotels , like most travel services , work very much on a supply-and-demand basis . If the demand is high , then prices will go up , and eventually hotels will sell out even at the higher prices . If the demand is low , prices do sometimes come down over time - although frequently the hotels themselves will not want to drop their prices below a certain level , which is where opaque bookings like Hotwire/Priceline come in , selling the hotels excess inventory depending on how many free rooms they have . Priceline/Hotwire prices definitely do vary significantly night-to-night for the same properly , based primarily on the hotels expected occupancy rates . This means that as the date gets closer , the price may drop , but it may also rise or even not be available at all . Depending on the size of the event you 're attending it 's even possible that it will have an impact on the number of rooms available - frequently it 's difficult to find any rooms available in an area , let alone cheap rooms , if there is a major conference/sporting event/etc occurring at the time . As the event gets closer , room availability gets lower , prices get higher , and opaque booking venders end up getting allocated zero rooms to sell ! If you must have a hotel , it 's often a good idea to find somewhere with a good cancellation policy ( eg , allowing you to cancel up until at least a day or two before the event ) - this gives you the certainty of having somewhere to stay if prices go up , but also allows you to keep looking/bidding for cheaper rooms as the date gets closer . If you find somewhere cheaper , simply cancel your initial reservation !
Right , despite missing out on the first day of my tour there while my train broke down , the rest of the gang went and unfortunately for me , I missed out on an opportunity to see Nessie . One day though , one day ... Firstly , you need to be aware of the geography . Loch Ness is in a natural cleft between Fort William and Inverness in the Scottish Highlands , and is 23 miles long . It 's also nearly a mile wide in places , and is VERY deep ( up to 226m ) . Statistically , this poses a problem for someone hoping to see Nessie , even if she does surface . Next , consider the weather . Edinburgh , further south , has 186 days of rain a year . That 's HALF the year . And it 's considered the SUNNY side of Scotland . Wind , rain , mist and snow are a feature of the Scottish highlands ( it rained every day but one of my tour , but it was still amazing ) , but do n't help with visibility . Next , the location north . Scotland is pretty far north . In winter , like now , by the end of November the sun has already set by 4pm . This does n't give you much daylight time to go Nessie hunting . Statistically this means from June to August you 're probably going to have the best shot , with weather and sunlight matching this . Of course this is when more tourists are there , and naturally this aligns with <URL> . Most sightings have been early morning or early evening . This could be argued that it 's because low light plays tricks on the eyes , especially with mist hanging around , but if she 's reptilian or amphibian , they often try to avoid moving lots in the heat of the day anyway , so avoid searching around lunchtime . There are boat tours on the water as well , so I 'd consider that your best chance in summer , get out on the Loch and be close to Nessie . The castle in the north east also offers dramatic views and has had some sightings . Good luck ! We expect pictures ;)
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
I was about to ask why you did n't just check the website , but ticket fares are surprisingly well-hidden and there 's no actual mention of age limits on the English site ( update below ) . So , let 's check <URL> , which has this to say about age limits on trains in Europe : Children travel at a reduced fare ... The age limit for children varies by country from under 12 to under 16 ( and in one case , under 17 ) , so see the list of child age limits below . ... although the child rate is n't always 50 % off the adult fare . It mentions several other things to watch out for , including the fact that adult fares are sometimes cheaper and that it can get tricky when you book international tickets . I highly suggest reading the entire page . Anyway , the site goes on to <URL> , so without further ado : Austria : Children under 6 free , 6-14 inclusive ( = under 15 ) pay the child fare . Since I could n't find anything on the English site , I did some digging on the original ÖBB site and found the official definition : Kinder sind Reisende zwischen 6 und 14 Jahre -- ab dem 6 . Geburtstag bis einen Tag vor dem 15 . Geburtstag . Handbuch Source : <URL> , A. 1.2.1.1 - Kind , gültig ab 01.01.2016 Loosely translated this confirms Seat61 : child fares apply from a child 's 6th birthday up to the day before its 15th birthday . Note that a variety of family offers are available and international tickets also have cheaper rates for those below 26 . Rates and reductions are listed in <URL> ( PDF )
Since you mention that you are open to getting to Cuba not necessarily directly from Europe but through a intermediate destination , my recommendation would be to consider one of two Canadian travel hubs : Montreal and Toronto . I recommend these because destinations in and around where Cuba are the main tourist places for Canadians for a big chunk of the year . You will occasionally find some ridiculously cheap fares through one or more of these methods : <URL> : they have regular deals as well as last minute deals . If you have the patience to look around their site , you are going to find some good packages . The caveat is that these tend to be vacation packages rather than just air fares but none the less , it is worth looking in to . <URL> : Air Canada and WestJet prices tend to go hand in hand a lot of the time . If one drops prices , the other one usually does as well . However , both airlines have partnerships with different hotels , etc. which gives you some more variety . <URL> : This is a budget airline where you will be able to find both cheap flights and vacation packages - in most cases , cheaper that both of the above airlines <URL> and <URL> : This site has a great collection of great deals picked out by <URL> where by you can get deals from all Canadian airports to other destinations . For example , on <URL> which is in turn a deal from Air Canada Vacations . All of the above methods usually require patience to be able to find the cheapest fares but then again , it is something to get started with :)
end question
start question
Is every museum in Washington DC free to visit ?
The majority of the museums in Washington DC are run by the <URL> , and offer free entry to everyone ( with optional donations being accepted ) . There are also a number of non-Smithsonian museums , such as the <URL> ( free , but requires a timed ticket for entry ) , <URL> ( not free ) , and the <URL> ( also not free ) .
These are the ones I look at : Official : <URL> <URL> <URL> Unofficial : <URL> Sometimes I just search on google " [ country name ] travel safety " That 's about all I can think of at the moment .
Well as they say : <URL> . There is apparently an application for iOS that can provide you with self-guided tour of Honolulu . There is also another <URL> . All of the guided tours of Honolulu would actually require people to pay but it may be possible that the hotels would offer discounts or even pick up the tab for that but this would have to be investigated locally when you check in . As far as Waikiki is concerned <URL> gives a few but with no indication if someone will guide you through the tour .
For Singapore , camping is limited to certain places : Changi Beach Park - From Carpark 1 to Carpark 4 and Carpark 6 to Carpark 7 ) East Coast Park - Area D and Area G Pasir Ris Park - Area 1 and Area 3 West Coast Park - Area 3 For all the places above , a camping permit is required , however you can apply for it easily online at the <URL> . The maximum camping period is 4 days for each applicant . You could also try to camp in Pulau Ubin ( Jelutong , Noordin and Mamam Beaches ) . These beaches do not need any permit . Another option is to camp in Sentosa beach , with permission from Sentosa authorities . Try to email to administrator@sentosa.com.sg to get the permit .
Here 's what I found out : While you can reserve tickets through Lawson 's website ( if you read Japanese ) , you have only 2 days to print your tickets out at a Lawson 's branch in Japan before they cancel your reservation . So it 's not a great option if you want to buy tickets in advance . It 's March 30th now , and the April 9th 10am slot is already sold out . On the other hand , JTB only has a limited number of tickets it can sell . So just because you see open slots at Lawson 's website , this does n't mean you can get a ticket for them from JTB . I tried purchasing tickets from JTB on March 27 and they had no tickets earlier than April 21 . In summary , if you want to ensure a visit to the Ghibli museum , bite the overhead and reserve it through JTB , about a month in advance ( probably earlier if you plan to visit during Japanese holidays like Golden Week or Obon ) .
Well it turns out that <URL> . It lists details of 14 beaches in the area . Each entry begins with " Beach Fees " . The following beaches are free , as in you do n't need a beach tag : North Wildwood Beach Sea Isle City Beach ( Wednesdays only ) Upper Township Beach Wildwood Beach Wildwood Crest Beach
Other answers have given some lists , and talked about the definitional problems , but they do n't seem to have anything like an ontology . <URL> is a large database of geographic names with relations between them . It 's not always easy to get all the data from the website ... you might need to download the database and write your own programs to access it . For example searching for " Hispaniola " finds the island and shows that it 's shared between Haiti and DR , but I ca n't see how to find the link in the other direction ( i.e. , DR is situated on Hispaniola ) .
This is <URL> . It costs $ 50 . It gives 3-days access to most places worth to visit in Florence and to public transport . About public transport , Firenze is not that big : everything is at walking distance , even from Santa Maria Novella train station . I would n't recommend to go downtown by car . Most historical places , mainly churches , are entrance free . Some places , like the Duomo , are equipped with pay-for-light machines .
Nate is correct , because the Galley is loaded from the right ( and on a 737 is on the right hand side ( centre for bigger planes ) Page 6 of the <URL> PDF shows Boeing 747 design specs and how a plane is serviced while on the ground under normal circumstances . You 'll notice that the cargo is also loaded on the right hand therefore if a plane was being unloaded via stairs it would create a substantial hazard .
So , you have got a lot of questions there at once , let me address two of them I do know about . Netherlands In the Netherlands this has been possible for quite a while and was originally called paalkamperen ( though it seems it has officially been renamed sometime in the past 2 years ) , however it must be noted that this is bound by a lot of rules . Most importantly every spot has a designated number of tents that are allowed ( normally 3 small tents ) , if you arrive too late and they are taken you are n't allowed to camp there . Beyond that you are n't allowed to leave any trash , no loud music , 10 meters from the sign , no more than 72 hours , no campfires etc. etc. . Either way , a list can be found <URL> . All of this is in Dutch though , so good luck with Google Translate . Belgium Inspired by the Dutch , Belgium has recently set up a similar iniative called <URL> . It seems the rules are somewhat similar , though once again all information is in Dutch . Differences seem to be that it 's max for 48 hours and that you will find water pumps more often than in the Netherlands ( do note this is not drinking water ) . United Kingdom From what I have heard this is not allowed whatsoever in the UK , but if it is I would love to hear about it ( still hope to go hiking in scotland some day ) . Important to understand These locations really are n't meant for tourists . Not in the sense of that you are n't allowed to stay there , but you should note that not only information online is only in Dutch , but if you arrive on these locations you will find all signs to be in Dutch only as well . All in all these locations are meant for ' locals ' and as a tourist it 's not going to be the best holiday experience ever ( they can be hard to find , etc. ) . Either way , <URL> might be worth checking out as well , although it 's once again in Dutch it does give a good overview both of the Dutch and Belgium situation .
The museum is quite small - 2 or 3 rooms , as I recall . Reviews on TripAdvisor suggest 1-2 hours , depending on whether you care to watch the the half hour documentary on his life . Personally , I did n't watch the entire film , and probably spent under an hour there , and I felt like I had a fairly comprehensive view of all the exhibits . Obviously if you 're an artist or someone who can view the exhibits at a much more detailed level than I can , you could take longer . I would recommend <URL> and asking how long those take .
There 's a few game hubs in Tokyo , but Akihabara is the classic techy gamer paradise . Plenty of new and used game stores , arcades and curious little shops . In particular : Super Potato , on the upper floors of a back alley building off the main strip . A veritable treasure trove of vintage video games ( Nintendo , Sega , Sony plus weird and wonderful platforms you 've never heard of ) . Lots of rare machines and games too ( including a working Virtual Boy ) . See <URL> for more info . The Sega Arcades ( 8 floor one in Akiba ) - 8 floors of UFO catchers , fighting machines , shooters , the works ) . Take the Electric Town exit from JR Akihabara station and you ca n't miss it The <URL> chain of shops - 5 in all in Akiba , with lots of rare / used games going back to PS1 days . TRADER 4 is probably the best one , but they 're all full of interesting odds and sods . Yodobashi Akiba - a mammoth electronics department store with a massive floor dedicated to recent platforms / hardware / software . A giant version of your usual Gamestops / GAMEs . It 's on the other side of Akihabara station from Electric Town , and is <URL> . For more stores see this <URL> . If you are over 20 there are also lots of cool video game bars to try out . There 's a good few in this <URL> article . Of these , I 've visited 8 Bit Cafe in Shinjuku - suitable for nerds and non-nerds alike , with a comically large cocktail menu , each entry based on some video game ( the Dr Mario one in a beaker with gel pills is excellent ) . See <URL> for more details . They 're based at Shinjuku 3-8-9 , Shinjuku Q Building 5F ( it 's a bit of a nightmare to find , but the linked article has some good images to find the exact stairwell to traverse ) . I should add , for the bars , some of them are video game themed , but not necessarily what we would consider ' gaming cafes ' ( i.e. you can drink but it 's not a place for playing games ) . If you fancy a futuristic theme park experience , try the incredible Joyopolis in Odaiba . A massive indoor theme park made by Sega with incredible rides ( real rally cars playing Sega Rally , a House of the Dead roller coaster ) , a big arcade , Sega-franchise exclusive arcade machines , and a general all-round " this is insane " vibe . See <URL> . It 's at DECKS Tokyo Beach , 1 − 6 − 1 Odaiba , Minato , postcode 135-0091 . Of course , if you 're a real pilgrim you could get pictures outside the Square Enix office in <URL> and the Nintendo office in <URL> ( 5-21-5 Asakusabashi , Taito-ku , Tokyo 111-0053 ) . If you 've anything specific in mind though leave a note in the comments and I can have a think . Update - If you have an international drivers permit you can also do real life Mario Kart around the streets of Tokyo , which is probably about as gamer-cool as it gets . Find out more at <URL> You might also be interested in taking a tour of the Sony Building in Ginza - it 's more than just games , but they usually have a cool selection of the latest Playstation games , gadgets and gizmos , as well as a mini-cinema that sometimes features games / trailer . Take a look at the Sony Building <URL> .
Shops normally can not sell to tourists VAT/Duty free just because you have a plane ticket . The maximum a shop can do is sell you VAT-Free since that is a separate charge . Duties on Liquor and Cigarettes are not known to the personnel since they are applied at the manufacturer/wholeseller level so the shop can not sell you those without charging the duty . It 's basically already paid . VAT Refunds : Most countries allow you to get VAT back when you exit the country as a non-resident . Examples : In Singapore for example , you can buy things anywhere and get the VAT back on the airport provided you bring the receipt ( and ideally the item ) with you after the check-in . If you buy goods in Germany , you can take anything to the customs border to Switzerland and get the VAT back as long as you are not a German resident and have the item together with the receipt . Prepare to be asked for the VAT on the other side however when you come into Switzerland however . The difference can be worthwhile however for goods of higher value . <URL> on Tax-Free shopping in Germany for example . Duty Free : As mentioned above , Duty on Alcohol and cigarettes , coffee and other items are normally more difficult to get back - if at all possible - since they are not listed on the bill as a separate item and included in the base price . There are some duty/tax free shops in several European and Asian cities that cater for tourists specifically , outside of the airport . I would google specifically for the country that you are interested in . This <URL> might help also . It lists some places where you can shop duty/tax-free outside of airports as well . There are also whole regions where Duties and/or Taxes are exempted despite the fact that they are part of a country where normally higher taxes apply , as for example <URL> and <URL> are EU VAT free zones .
<URL> : Na uw aanmelding wordt een dagelijkse servicevergoeding van $ 1 aan u in rekening gebracht voor elke dag dat u Lebara Roaming Services gebruikt . Rough literal translation : After your subscrition , a daily service charge of $ 1 will be charged for each day you use Lebara Roaming Services . It 's not necessarily a bad deal but it 's not entirely free and $ 1 is quite a lot to spend on roaming charges to receive calls . If you are staying in the EU , you must consistently talk for more than 15-20 min a day on average to come out on top compared to other plans ( to be completely fair coverage is apparently broader and competing operators might charge more than that outside the EU so if you are frequently travelling in non-EU countries it could still be very attractive ) . And the duration is also capped at 120 min so it 's not unlimited either . If you use this roaming option for all of one month , that 's $ 30 on top of your regular credit and outgoing calls , which is the price of a premium plan/roaming package in many countries . Outgoing calls are not free and in fact only cheap with Lebara ONE ; the charge for outgoing roaming calls with their 10 = 20 offer is very close to the EU maximum , i.e. not a special deal at all in many cases . And the roaming option apparently does not include data , which is where most people run huge bills today . Note that this offer only looks too good to be true when you compare it to what many Dutch providers offer but roaming is one area where they are rather bad . And with increasingly tight EU caps , roaming charges are moving constantly and can still be expected to go down IMO . By contrast , in some places , unlimited calls to other European countries and the US are already included in all but the cheapest plans and in the Middle East there are some reasonably-priced contracts with unlimited roaming in dozens of countries . Last time I looked into it , such offers were n't available at all in the Netherlands , whether for mobile or VOIP landlines . But it seems perfectly doable , technically and economically , if the experience in other countries is anything to go by so Lebara might simply be trying to import a new model to the Dutch market and I certainly hope/expect even better offers to appear soon , without any catch .
Yes , at T1 ( International Terminal ) and T2 ( Domestic Terminal ) . I was there in 2011 but ca n't remember the details ( except that I did use internet connection at the airport ) . Anyway , <URL> is a good memory aid , and several tips from 2011 and 2012 say there 's indeed wifi available . <URL> : Free wifi all over with the " FREE WIFI BY EXPEDIA SYD " network . Just choose a destination and flight number . <URL> : You get free and fast wifi here ! <URL> : Free wifi in the international terminal ( T1 ) <URL> : Aquí el wifi gratis funciona !!! Update : The <URL> also confirms this : Free Wi-Fi is available throughout International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) . Sydney Airport now provides free Wi-Fi for all travellers at both the Domestic ( T2 ) and International ( T1 ) Terminals . You can use any Wi-Fi enabled device to connect including your laptop , smartphone or tablet . Simply select " Free Internet by sponsors name &amp; SYD " from the list of available networks , answer the questions , read the terms and conditions and click " Proceed " . You will be shown a sponsored message then directed to a website . From there you can browse the internet for up to 2 hours and 500MB of data . Coverage is provided throughout the entire International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) .
( Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor , etc ) Ebola is not contagious in the same way as , say , influenza outbreaks . It 's a horrible contagious disease , but it requires an exchange of bodily fluids for transmission - particularly blood , sweat , sexual fluids , vomit , bile etc. . Transmission usually occurs in close proximity - between family members , sexual partners or others sharing accommodation , through medical contact , or contact with improperly-treated deceased . Check your own government 's travel advice : but for an example , the ( very cautious ) UK government are currently <URL> let alone Morocco - here 's their <URL> : The risk to most travellers is very low ... Transmission of Ebola can only occur when there is direct contact with the blood or body fluids of an infected person , animal , or objects , such as needles , that have been contaminated with blood or body fluids . As for Morocco , not only is it the other side of the Sahara to the Ebola outbreak , the areas between ( Northern Mali , Western Sahara , South West Algeria ) are unstable barely populated areas with banditry and very little travel or trade . If ebola was to spread to Morocco , it would almost certainly be by plane travel , which is a ) closely monitored and b ) no more likely to arrive at Morocco than any other country that flies to Guinea . Those Ebola horror stories from the past that people love to share , of terrifyingly fast-spreading outbreaks , usually involve poorly prepared hospitals and communities responding in ways that aid transmission , such as re-using needles , traditional burial practices such as embalming bodies , and treating the sick without taking appropriate precautions . There have been major efforts since then to ensure medical facilities are better trained . You 'll see from news reports that even in the countries most effected , the numbers of people affected are ( so far , touch wood ) low . If you were going to one of the country where there were some cases of ebola and you were worried , these might be sensible precautions : Take similar precautions as you would to avoid HIV infection ( no unsafe sex or shared needle use , avoid other exchanges of bodily fluids ) Consider additional precautions to avoid exchanging sweat . Maybe skip the gym . If you 're exceptionally worried or there were reports of medium-sized outbreaks while there , and you wanted to feel like you were being extra-cautious : you might want to make more effort to maintain personal space and maybe avoid skin contact such as shaking hands , you might want to wash your hands more than usual and consider using <URL> physical contact with people or things that have been in close contact to other people before touching food or your face , ... but even these might be a bit excessive unless you were right in an outbreak , in which case there would probably be an evacuation plan . I 'll end with a quote in the USA Today article <URL> from a director of virology at the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit : " You probably could n't get Ebola if you went to Conakry [ capital of Guinea ] now if you tried " If it was me , I 'd keep an eye on the news , and I 'd take normal health precautions , but would n't let worries spoil the trip .
Riga has a small city centre . All tourists are there and most of the " sense " and energy is there . There is n't much around it and a ride from the airport gets you there . If you can come up with something you want to see , it wo n't be far from it and one day will be enough . Of course , if you 're not planning to drink in the evening and have " adventures " . Maybe the only exception is the sea-side city of Jurmala , getting there is 30 minutes on a train . I 'd recommend using some guide like InYourPocket ( they have PDFs on their site and you 'll find the printed version in many local hotels ) to find something interesting .
Yes . Food is served for free inside all coaches of Duronto Express . The food charges are already included in your ticket expense . With what I remember from my last booking in a Sleeper Duronto Coach , I was asked the choice of Vegetarian or Non Vegetarian at the time of booking . In case you missed it , you could just let your coach attendant know about your choice . Happy Journey !
I am told , the problem with them Indian customs is , you can read them boys all the rules from the book , but if they see you with more than 2 average sized ( 750 ml ? ) alcoholic bottles , you have had it . By the book , you can carry 2 liters of alcohol : <URL> The best option in experiences of people I know and as others here have suggested , it 's best to buy in US , pack well and put it in the check in luggage . Many liquors are way cheaper in the state run package stores than what it is in any other package/beverage store . In case it helps , I think last time I bought a Gelnlivet 18 year old 750 ml was 95 bucks . But you have to also keep in mind , the bottle weight of such liquor can get very heavy . There should n't be any problem all along the way . Just my personal suggestion ; You get all the GLENLIVETs and GLENFIDDICHs in India for reasonable price . How about taking something exquisite which is n't available in India at all ? May be a Tequila 1800 ?
If you arrive early enough you can park at the visitor center . But it is often full before 10 am . So , if it is full , you 'll have to backtrack into town : The National Park Service has a <URL> which you may be able to use . Some of these are standalone park and ride facilities ; others are sections of hotel or local business parking lots , or adjacent to them . In these cases be sure to follow the Park &amp; Ride signs ( which unfortunately are fairly small and can be hard to spot ) and park in the marked areas . This map also shows where the <URL> stops . The Park &amp; Ride sign looks like this : There is also street parking on parts of Zion Park Blvd. , but do n't count on finding an open space .
end question
start question
Can I print my Spirit boarding pass at some kiosk at the airport , without having to pay $ 10 ?
Last time I flew Spirit , I was able to print my boarding pass at a kiosk without paying an additional fee . I believe the $ 10 fee only applies if you get a counter agent to print it for you .
Well there is definitely free Wi-Fi at Guangzhou International Airport , including in locations that transit passengers can use . When I was in transit for four hours a few days ago I 'd say about every second departure gate had an Internet point which included I think two electric sockets on either side . These were of course a bit crowded with people using and charging various devices . There were various other sockets around the place that took various shaped plugs , but all the ones I tried seemed to have their electric supply disabled leaving only those at the Internet points working . It turns out that to get a login you need a mobile phone or an account on some Chinese Internet service I 'd never heard of called <URL> . I 'm a bit of a phone hater so I did n't understand some of the jargon but it seemed that only Chinese phone numbers would work , perhaps only certain carriers : China Mobile , China Unicorn , and China Telecom . As I had no telephone and no Sina Weibo account I spent my four hours without Internet at Guangzhou airport .
I found some answers at their website at <URL> : They only have self-service kiosks in Riga : Currently available to our passengers travelling from Riga airport , self-check-in kiosks allow you to check in at the airport free of charge . Also , they do have a 10 EUR airport check-in fee , but that <URL> " passengers who have already checked in online , via mobile check-in or at a self service check-in kiosk " . They <URL> that they 'll print it for free as long as you have checked in online : Hello ! We 're sorry for late response . If you 've checked in online , you can get a boarding pass at the check-in desk free of charge . Anyway , it looks like their <URL> is a better option if you happen to be in possession of a mobile phone , as you avoid queuing at the check-in desk : A : With airBaltic mobile check-in you will save time and money , escape queues and the EUR 10 check-in fee at the airport . It gives you flexibility and the possibility to check in on your way to the airport . Please pay attention to the check-in deadline . You enter booking ref and surname ( whether or not you 've already done online check-in ) and get a " mobile boarding pass " with QR code to show at the gate : Edit : Last weekend I used the mobile boarding pass on four separate airBaltic flights , so I can confirm that there is no need to print anything by yourself .
Everything you need to know is on the airport 's <URL> . The short answer is yes , easily . The fastest , but most expensive , way is just to take a taxi . Follow the signs to the taxi rank , should take around 20 to 30 mins to get into town and budget around 25 pounds one way . You can pick up any black cab on the way back . Trams are 8 pounds return , run every ten minutes or so ( officially every 8 to 12 minutes ) and go down Princes Street which I 'm guessing is the <URL> you wish to go to . You can get off on the terminus or just after it turns off Princes Street . Journey time is around 35 minutes . Similarly the Airlink bus is 50p cheaper , takes about as long , runs about as often and stops at Waverly which is a short walk . There are local buses that are much cheaper , but they take a long route and stop a lot , I doubt it 's worth it . So , even if you want to get back to the airport two hours before departure you 'd still easily manage two and a half to three hours in the city . Time enough to go shopping and grab a bite to eat . Of course you 'll have to clear security when you return to the airport , and this can take a looong time during peak hours . They 've redone the security area so it 's faster now but it can get very busy . Also if you 're pulled over for further screening you may need to wait in a queue for that . Basically I would n't try cutting it too close . I 'm also assuming that you can legally enter the UK . I guess any big bags will left on the plane but for what it 's worth there 's a <URL> service at Edinburgh airport . There 's also one at <URL> but the airport one is cheaper .
Unless you 're from a country that requires you to obtain an <URL> , there is no sharing of information as a general rule . Even in cases where there are information sharing agreements , such as between <URL> , <URL> , or in the <URL> , the information that is shared is about people from outside the info-sharing nations , but not about their own citizens . It may be possible for one country to ask for legal assistance to obtain information about a specific person , and who knows what information is shared by the secret services , of course , but on the visible side , countries do not know what their citizens do while away . EDIT As pointed out by @MeNoTalk , the <URL> , where airplane passenger data is transmitted to the destination country . Thus , your government may not know where you 're headed , but they will know from where you return , if you come back by plane .
Having arrived at Malta airport February 1 , 2016 , there was a booth ( I think towards the right hand side from Arrivals ) where I was able to purchase a Tallinja card for $ 21 for 7-days . The booth also accepts Amex cards . This covers the whole of Malta and Gozo ( Għawdex ) . Whether or not this can be topped-up I 'm not sure . <URL>
Generally speaking , no , that 's not allowed . The relevant Schengen regulation does leave the door open in special circumstances , but that 's not how French consulates traditionally work . You have to apply to the consulate serving your place of residence and can not simply choose one that 's convenient for you , even in the same country . However , it does not hurt to ask , either by trying to contact the NYC consulate directly or by lodging an application at another consulate , explaining why you do that ( you can write a short letter to join to your application ) . Since it 's a reasonable reason and it 's out of your control , they might agree to see it as a valid justification to apply article 6 ( 2 ) of the Schengen visa code but it 's really up to them ( see also <URL> and <URL> ) . Some practical tips : Always be congenial and to-the-point in your communication , do not suggest you feel entitled to something or get angry -- even if you have good reasons to ! -- but stand your ground and do n't be obsequious either and you might get lucky . But it 's a long shot .
If you buy items at the Dublin Airport duty-free , ask the staff to place your items in a sealed bag . <URL> You will be allowed to take this bag through security , but it must remain sealed until you arrive at your destination . All liquid , gel and paste purchases will be placed in a clear plastic Travel Value bag and sealed at the point of purchase . The receipt must remain clearly visible . This bag must not be opened until final destination is reached . Opening or tampering with this sealed bag may result in confiscation at security check .
Right after security checks ( at least in the terminal I used ) there were two changing rooms that are probably used for extra security checks . I asked the security staff if I could use it to get changed and their response was " sure , of course " so I went ahead and did . Indeed nobody even seemed to care . The changing room featured a chair , enough space and was very clean . <URL> Alternatively let me propose a solution here that has not been mentioned yet : Go to a clothing store in the airport shopping area , find a sales clerk that is free and ask politely if you could use their changing rooms for a second to change your clothes . No guarantee that it 'll work but you can try at least .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
but there are a lot of blogs online about that stuff and it seems pointless to add another . There are never enough blogs on any topic . See <URL> . What things to consider especially for travel blogs ? the backend ( where you create your content and config your blog ) should be accessible from mobile devices ; if it 's no fun / not easy , you 'll probably do n't post so much if a problem occurs , you should be able to handle/fix it on tour ( or contact someone who can do it for you ) backups should be done automatically ( e.g. send a database dump daily to a separate mail account ) if you use internet cafés and/or untrusted networks , your password could be stolen ; do n't use an admin account to post/edit content ; but have admin login available for emergencies ( e.g. to delete compromised user accounts ) good <URL> : functionality to add new posts by email Self-hosting vs. 3rd party service Self-hosting advantages you get exactly what you want it 's your content , you have full control , you can backup it ( some services allow this , too , but not all ) no policies , no censorship , no rules , no service terms you can fix any problems yourself ( and do n't have to wait for the provider to do it ) you can create/use accounts with lesser privileges ( security ) disadvantages costs more time costs money ( hosting ) need to know that stuff ( resp . dig into it ) you have to update the software yourself ( security ) you need to fix any problems yourself ;) 3rd party service advantages no setup , no configuration , no updates ( usually ) no costs disadvantages might not offer exactly what you need ; customization possibilites are limited you do n't " own " your content ; ( often ) no backup possibility you have to respect their service terms ( often ) ads you ca n't do anything if it goes down ( often ) you have only one account ; if your password is stolen , your account is lost risk of being deleted ( for no reason ) , risk that the service might shut down forever
Yes , there is ! If you rummage through all the PDFs in the French bit of the airport website , you 'll fine the details <URL> . Alternately , just ask at the cafe/bar in the airport , they 're very friendly and helpful there :) You need to go to the information ( l’accueil ) desk , which doubles up as the Air France ticket desk ( and is much better signed for the latter than the former ! ) . If you ask there for a password , they 'll take your name , wander back into the office and generate you a personal password for the day . You can then connect to the Wi-Fi , trigger the captive portal , enter your password and get online . However ... It 's a very small airport , and people there have multiple roles . So , if you want to get the password just as a flight is about to leave , you 'll have to wait ! ( The staff who give out the password also help with flight dispatch ) The good news is they 're very friendly , and they 'll come and find you with your password once the flight has gone !
If the boarding pass is for an itinerary which is not yet complete ( e.g. it was the outbound leg of a round trip , and you have n't yet taken the return ) , then there is a risk . The boarding pass usually contains your name and confirmation number , and this is often sufficient information for someone to change or cancel your remaining flights . I do n't think they could easily profit from this , but they could at least inconvenience you . ( And if the airline charges a fee to change the flight and/or change it back , or the ticket is non-refundable , you may have some trouble convincing them that you did n't authorize the change and they should put it back without charge . )
The boarding pass will be fine , nobody will check for a e-ticket . ( In fact , my last few easyjet bookings have them sending me no such thing , so not quite sure how you got one ) . Source : Travelled with Easyjet recently . <URL> Do I get a flight ticket from easyJet ? easyJet is a ticketless airline . On completion of your booking you will receive confirmation of the flight details via email . 30 days before your flight you will be able to check in online and print your boarding pass or download it using our mobile app before going to the airport . For more information on how to check in online please visit our dedicated <URL>
From <URL> : Sleeping in airports is generally frowned upon in all Japanese airports . While the terminal is open , you will likely be approached by a security officer who will ask to see your travel documents It also links to a quote from the <URL> , although I ca n't find the quote on that page . Aircraft operating hours is between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. . Customers are not permitted to remain in the passenger terminals outside aircraft operating hours . However , under special circumstances , for example when an aircraft arrives after public transport stops operating , customers may be allowed to sleep in designated areas . Moreover , customers catching early morning flights are advised to use nearby hotels and accommodations around the airport . It does however say that sleeping facilities can be reserved in advance in the day rooms . From some of the comments , however , on sleepinginairports , some had no problems and even had the police show them comfy places to nap . So it looks like officially , no , you ca n't , but in reality depending on your luck , you may be able to .
As of 2016 , the manned passport checks at Prague airport were replaced with boarding pass scanners . As a matter of fact , I did n't once have to show an ID flying PRG-BCN today . Therefore the question is now moot .
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
As long as you have proof of exit from the US , that is all US customs and immigration will care about . I think you can safely relax and go through the normal shuffle of collecting your bags and rechecking them in for your onward flight , etc. .
Yes , for every problem with the police , you can insist to do it at the station . But I would n't choose this as first option automatically . Normally trivial things like showing your ID might extend to several hours ( with a bit of bad luck ) . Getting a car to get you to the next station , waiting there if something is more important , doing the full course of bureaucracy , ( maybe ) getting an additional questioning and a call to your hotel etc.etc . ( depending on the mood ) , paying a fee for the additional effort ( it 's not because they do n't like this behaviour , they have to collect it for certain things ) , and being released in front of the station again instead where they met you first ... If you insist on the station , make sure they know that you have everything necessary but do n't trust them , instead of being here illegally . Easier would be to ask for their ID first . They are obliged ( too ) to show it on request , and to show it long enough that you can read it carefully ( even if you do n't understand German , look at it ) . I did n't find a good image , <URL> has to do . On the backside , there is more information like the name etc. . Scammers usually show you something not withstanding closer inspection , so they do n't want you to look carefully . Additionally , if they are uniformed but without weapon clearly visible on the belt , it 's a fake ( happens often enough to mention it ) . If they refuse to show their ID and/or to take you to a station ( real refusing , not just a " is this really necessary " - thing first ) , call 133 and get some more authentic ones . If they show some authentic looking ID but you still have major doubts for some reason , call too and tell them the number of the ID ( together with location and what they 're doing ) to check it .
UPS Store Canada will do the same . It has <URL> service : you upload your stuff and pick it up at the nearest UPS Store ( just downtown there are four ) . As for cost , check the <URL> .
end question
start question
Bus from San Pedro de Atacama to Antofagasta , Chile ?
There are buses . At the very least , you can get a bus 1.5 hours west to Calama , which has a bigger exchange . A member of our party did that in August ( winter ) and got to Antofagasta , Iquique and more . The bus companies in Chile/Bolivia do n't have much online presence - it 's far easier to just get one in the town - but go as early as possible when you know when you want to leave , gives you more options . Indeed , as per <URL> , there are many daily arrivals into Antofagasta from both San Pedro and Calama . If you are arriving in San Pedro after a Salar De Uyuni tour , ask your tour company as they can often book ahead for you . Members of my party did that with Tierra Mistica - the company we used for the salt flats . In general , after 4 months travel in South America from July to November , the only place I could really book online was in Argentina - everywhere else I just did it at the bus terminal in each city , and never had a problem finding some sort of bus .
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
<URL> shows the C12 route taking 57 minutes ( and 15 stops ) , traveling more directly west-east . <URL> also shows an alternative route , the S10 train to a connection with the C10 bus in Como , which takes about 2 hours . Its <URL> that shows the numerous stops and includes towns that document the 1-hour route ( such as Cima , Porlezza , Croce ) . The <URL> is in effect between 9 June to 11 September ; winter schedule begins on 12 September ( through 8 June ) . To interpret the abbreviations used on the schedule : Scol are those that run on school days ( scolastici ) , which include Saturdays . Fer6 means buses that run Monday-Saturday ( all six feriale or working days ) ; Fer5 are for buses that run Monday-Friday . Fest indicates Sunday and national holidays ( festivo ) . Gior is every day or daily ( giornaliero ) .
The nearest airport , UYU , is a domestic airport ; you will need to connect at La Paz ( LPB ) . <URL> and <URL> offer UYU-LPB services . Arequipa , for its part , has limited international service , and you would need to connect on a LAN or TACA flight through Lima ( LIM ) .
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
There will be plenty of buses each day to Bodrum . You will find one , so long as they are n't sold out , although Sunday night is unlikely to be the busiest of travel times to Bodrum . Most will be direct , but there will be some which have another final destination . When you arrive in Istanbul , look around for bus company offices in the district you are staying in . * They are fairly ubiquitous so you are unlikely to have to travel far to find one . Moreover , they are usually clustered around one another , which makes time and price shopping easy . That being said , they usually all leave around the same times and charge similar prices , so it wo n't matter much which company you take , although some are better than others . When you buy your ticket , make sure you find out what time the service bus ( in Turkish , servis ) leaves from the office ( usually an hour or so before the scheduled departure time ) . The service buses will take you to the bus station or another staging point , where you will get on the actual bus . Do n't buy a ticket in Istanbul from a company without a service bus . Depending on the destination , there will be service buses to take you from the bus station to somewhere central once you arrive ( in some Turkish cities , there are no service buses , but this is an exception ) . Turkish buses are comfortable but they do stop every three hours or so , even in the middle of the night , so factor that into your sleep expectations . * If you stay in Taksim , walk down to Gümüşsuyu from Taksim Square to find the offices . If you stay in Sultanahmet , walk west towards Lâleli along Divanyolu . There are offices in Sultanahmet itself , but expect higher prices there .
First of all , arriving at 11:45 am and departing at 10:45 pm should be an 11-hour layover , which is quite a lot of time . Quite a few of the popular tourist attractions are reachable by BART train without having to transfer . Also Nate already posted the link to the luggage storing information : <URL> Popular places to visit are Union Square , the Embacedero up to Pier 39 , and the Golden Gate bridge . For visiting the latter , you would need to take a bus or do quite a long walk - probably not so well-suited for an 11-hour layover . The BART will take you about 1 hour each way , but you should have 7-8 hours in the city center then , which should be enough for a first look . As a suggestion , take any travel guide and pick a few places that sound good to you close to Market street and close to the city center to visit . You can also walk from Market street to Little Italy , passing by Lombard Street , and walking back the Embacedero . You see quite a bit of the " real " San Francisco ( i.e. , where people live ) in this way .
I was in SEA at the beginning of the year . Firstly , good on you for not flying south . It 's a very expensive and unnecessary flight for a trip that can very easily be made on land . When it comes to VIP buses in South East Asia , there is n't usually a big difference , but it does depend on the price . Sometimes a VIP bus may give you better seating , A/C , only other tourists/foreigners on the bus and/or it could be faster , as some of the normal sleepers pick up a lot of locals along the way who sit in the aisles . However , that being said , the VIP buses can be exactly the same . With the trip from Vientiance to Pakse I would probably just get the normal sleeper-bus unless there is a major price difference , which , in that case , probably means the normal is full of locals and will be a less comfortable ride .
By bus , the easiest is going to be a stop in La Paz , Bolivia . You have two options from Puno . The direct - through the border and round the south side of Lake Titicaca to La Paz . It does n't take that long - about 5 hours from memory , although I 've heard it can take 8 . Option B is the ferry through to Copacobana . It 's meant to be quite the experience , but takes longer . You 'll also likely have to change buses in Copacobana , so be prepared to lose your good seats , if you have any . From La Paz , it 's 12-15 hours by bus to the town of Uyuni . Be aware - it can be FREEZING at night on the bus , especially during winter . Pack warm . I was in a car for various reasons , was given a blanket , was n't sure why until a few minutes into the drive - was very thankful for it ! Some routes are direct from La Paz , others will go through Oruro , and you 'll need to change buses there . In terms of the border , it was one of the more fun ones that I remember . Do n't worry about it being open - the bus from Puno wo n't leave if it 's not . In terms of safety , it was a little confusing but just follow everyone else on the bus and someone will wave you into a queue , a room , and so on . And make sure you know what your bus looks like - the driver may well move it down to the other side of the border without you realising :)
There are no night buses that I am aware of . Green Bus has Chiang Mai to Chiang Khong routes ( stops in Chiang Rai on the way ) , but they are daytime schedules . Most bus companies try to avoid driving the road between Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai at night , as it is a winding mountain route with less than perfect drivers ( ie post drinking drivers ) .
There are several bus companies , both Turkish and Georgian , which run buses from Batumi to Istanbul ( all starting in Tbilisi to my knowledge ) . The offices in the Batumi bus station are all located next to one another , but there are also a couple more offices more centrally located ( for example , at the corner of Chavchavzade and Gogebashvili ) . Either way , tickets are easy to get . Most companies offer tickets for a few times a day . It 's also much cheaper to get the tickets in Georgia than to travel to Hopa or Trabzon and take a Turkish bus from there .
Mt. Pleasant is a small town of fewer than 9,000 residents in a rural county ; there is no municipal mass transportation available . I do see listings for two or three taxi companies ( A2z and Barnes , and sometimes others ) , so you might call ahead to see if they will have cars waiting for the train . Mt. Pleasant is the nearest Amtrak station to Iowa City , home to the huge University of Iowa , but Iowa City taxis may not be interested ( or licensed ) to give you a ride locally within Henry County .
Information about Russian trains schedules can be found at the <URL> : Train # 006Ь Moscow - Ulan-Bator departure at 21:35 every Wednesday , Thursday , arrival at 06:30 every Monday , Tuesday . Stop in Irkutsk at 23:25 every Sunday , Monday respectively . Train Fares <URL> departure at 17:15 every day , arrival at 06:10 . About buses from Ulan-Ude - there are some talks at local forums that buses are really go , every day , and during summer even more than one , but information is from 2009 year , and ca n't find any newer . Buses ( they said ) departure at 10-00 , and after 8-9 hours you are in Ulan-Bator , but ca n't find official link for it .
Yes , Muni tokens are still valid on SF Muni buses and trams as of February 2013 . When boarding a bus or a streetcar , put a token in the cash farebox and get your proof of payment from the driver . In the Market Street tunnel , you can use a token to purchase a single ticket from the vending machines . You can not use tokens to load a Clipper card ( even a Muni-only one ) , purchase a return ticket , ride on a cable car , or ride buses and trains from other agencies in the area . Younger people in the area may not have heard of tokens . Tokens are no longer sold ( the Clipper card is encouraged instead ) and are becoming a <URL> .
The <URL> has its own home page where it lists the <URL> ( dead link ) in a downloadable Excel spreadsheet . ( Different routes are listed in different " sheets " within the spreadsheet so switch using the tabs at the bottom . ) There 's <URL> ( you need to switch to the " Fare Stage " tab ) . Perhaps not the most intuitive way but at least you have the information in some form . Usually , people at bus stops will be happy to help you out with information on what bus route to take ( if they speak English , that is ) . Another pertinent point is that given Delhi 's traffic , it 's highly unlikely that the bus schedule will be helpful . <URL> , do n't expect the buses to turn up or reach their destination on time .
Actually NYP = <URL> . Pine Hill along with Adirondack and New York Trailways operate under the same umbrella of New York Trailways , hence NYP ( New York Pine Hill ) .
There is n't a free public shuttle bus service to/from the airport . ( There are , of course , <URL> . ) What I think your relative may have gotten it confused with is <URL> that are reserved for guests . I 'd recommend taking the <URL> though . It 's a lot cheaper ( $ 100 ) than getting a taxi and a lot faster than a bus given Hong Kong 's traffic , and if you 're going to the airport many airlines now offer check-in desks in the city itself , before you get to the airport . Once you have paid for your ticket and caught the HKIA express : Free shuttle bus service is available , taking passengers from Kowloon or Hong Kong stations to most major hotels and transport interchanges . Passengers can also enjoy free porter service at all Airport Express stations . So if you have a hotel near Kowloon or Hong Kong station , you should be able to get a free shuttle bus once you have taken the Airport Express .
The state run transport company , <URL> has very good well maintained a/c buses to Goa from Bangalore . You can check the availability and book tickets online from their website . Make sure to select service class as ' Premium ' to get a/c buses in your search results . Since Goa being a well known tourist place and April-June is summer vacation , it is advisable to book tickets in advance . Or plan your journey on week days .
OK after even more research and legwork I have reached some generalizations ( any of which may be wrong so please correct me ) : There are not actually bus companies operating buses between Greece and Georgia , but travel agencies chartering buses . A bus departs Greece headed for Georgia each day of the week , with one particular travel agency dealing with each particular day of the week . This suggests there may be seven agencies assuming there is a bus on all 7 days of the week . All or most of the agencies have offices in the same area of Thessaloniki , at the part of Filippou Street near Agn . Stratiotou and Mitseon Streets , which is near the ruins of the Roman Forum of Thessaloniki . Not all of the agencies have any English-speaking staff , but Nougzari Tours does . Other agencies in the area will happily send you there if you ca n't manage in Greek , Georgian , or Russian . Departure times may vary , you are advised to check when booking . This is probably a subsequence of the buses being charters . The ruins of the Roman Forum of Thessaloniki near several of the Georgian travel agencies which run buses to Tbilisi : Known agencies running buses on particular days of the week Sunday : <URL> Monday : <URL> Tuesday : Wednesday : Thursday : <URL> Friday : Saturday : Shopfronts of a couple of the Georgian travel agencies in Thessaloniki in the area described above : ( This answer is a Community Wiki so please correct any mistakes or add any missing or new information . )
Tower 23 Hotel 723 Felspar Street , Pacific Beach , CA 92109 San Diego Follow this link : <URL> The price is around 199 USD/night ( from booking.com ) and the booking.com review score is 8.5 . It also states that " Guests at Tower 23 are surrounded by a large variety of recreational activities . Hiking trails , fishing , golf , surfing and whale watching are only minutes from the front doors " from what I searched in Google , it seems that you can surf in Mission Bay which is very near to the hotel . if you click the review section , a couple from Germany also stated " ... direct view from the balconary to the sea ; a lot of surfers in front of the hotel ... "
end question
start question
Withdrawing Euros from Moroccan ATMs ?
It would be wise to obtain MAD from an ATM after your arrive . Using your bank card at a local ATM will get the best exchange rates , minus a small fee . Some banks will refund this fee to you , so check the terms on your account . To find an ATM , check whether your card is part of the PLUS ( Visa ) network or the Cirrus ( MasterCard ) network . If it 's part of either of those , you can find ATMs online : PLUS Network : www.visa.com/atmlocator/ Cirrus Network : <URL> You 're unlikely to find EUR ATMs in Morocco or the United States . Your best bet would be a major bank in either country ( US banks will probably have a smaller spread ) . A bureau de change would also serve the same purpose . Be sure to compare rates before buying euros . Most will publish their rates online .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
Mt Greylock , the highest point of Massachusetts provides a view of at least 5 states . Vermont New Hampshire New York Massachusetts Connecticut Hiking to the top gives one a sense of real accomplishment and the 360 degree vistas are your well earned rewards . North into Vermont/New Hampshire , south into lower Mass. / northern Connecticut , east towards Boston , west into the Adirondacks of New York State . Information comes from <URL>
Try a credit union . Many of them boast surcharge-free ATMs . Lots of smaller banks do n't collect surcharges either . Those that do n't often will have a big sign saying so near the ATM . The Credit Union National Association , the Independent Community Bankers Association and The Co-Op Network all have ATM locators on their Web sites . Ask for cash-back when you use your ATM card at a grocery store . This service is free at many stores . If you 're going through San Francisco , residents recently voted to ban ATM fees . So grab some cash while you 're there ;) <URL> Of course this means there are still SOME out there ! ( From same survey ) the average fee is $ 2.33 . So at the least , try and beat that target ;)
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
First , it will not be " straight and easy " : the Middle East is full of unstable countries , underdeveloped infrastructure , political and diplomatical issues between neighbor countries and bureaucracy . But it can be interesting to travel these routes and discover less-traveled places and meet locals nevertheless . From Europe to the Middle East The first part of your trip can be done quite easily by train <URL> ( see also <URL> / <URL> / <URL> options ) and <URL> . It 's easy to do by car too , and you wo n't have to pay huge taxes for your car in Europe or Turkey . In the other countries , import taxes on foreign cars may be very high and make it more interesting to rent a car ( and possibly a driver ) locally in each country or take public transportation / taxis / buses . Through Iran You can travel by bus easily , and <URL> where there are <URL> ( but the service seems to be <URL> <URL> ) . You can also take a plane to cross the Ormuz straits . <URL> is Bushehr-Dammam , but Bushehr is not reachable by train ( <URL> and flights exist though ) . A <URL> can be found on the <URL> . Beware of the security / diplomatic situation between your home country and Iran . Through Syria This is of course not recommended at the moment . From Damascus ( where you can arrive by train , car or bus from Turkey ) , go to Amman <URL> ( notoriously slow , taking up to ten or twelve hours for a trip that a service taxi does in less than three hours on the road , so it is really interesting only for those looking for a " train experience " ) , car or bus . There are no other passenger railway services in Jordan , so you 'll have to take cars/taxis/buses from Amman to Makkah . Through Iraq This is suicidal at the moment , and most borders remain closed or with big restrictions . Do n't attempt it . Avoiding Israel , Iran , Iraq and Syria : through Egypt While this will require from you to take boats or flights , there is also the possibility to make a detour through Egypt and to <URL> , avoiding Israel . You would have to take a ferry from Greece to Cyprus and from Cyprus to Egypt . As of now , the line between Limassol ( Cyprus ) and Port-Said ( Egypt ) <URL> . But it might reopen at some point for pedestrians . The <URL> line is also suspended . So right now your only option would be <URL> : it wo n't be easy . Saudi Arabia The trickiest part of your trip , apart from instable countries like Syria or Iraq right now , is probably Saudi Arabia itself . The only way you can cross the country by land is on a ( very rare ) tourist visa , or a work visa and permission from your employer to wander around the country . If you come on a Hajj or Umrah visa , you will most of the time <URL> . Some pilgrims arrive by land or by sea , but they are coming from nearby / poor countries where air travel is not an option for everyone , and they 're still part of a group . <URL> to Riyadh or other Saudi Arabian cities is usually not permitted during the <URL> . During Umrah , visitors may obtain permission after arrangements have been made with a travel agency to travel to other cities in Saudi Arabia . Umrah visa holders may only visit Saudi Arabia outside of the annual Hajj period . Inside Saudi Arabia , almost all your land travel will be by car , taxi or bus . The only rail connection today ( apart from the <URL> ) is <URL> , allowing you if you have the necessary visas to connect with <URL> . There are <URL> though , even if they 're not as large as the Ottoman-era Anatolian ( Istanbul-Ankara ) , <URL> ( Konya-Baghdad ) and <URL> ( Damascus-Mecca ) railways yet ( the only other neighbor country involved in today 's projects being Jordan ) . Israeli visas or stamps in your passport , or an Israeli birthplace will have your visa request or entry denied . You may be able to have you entry stamp to Israel put on a separate sheet of paper , but <URL> so prepare for changing plans if you go that route ! Note that tourist visas to Saudi Arabia are not typically granted , and I did n't hear of tourist visas for individual travelers yet . This may be changing in the future , in light of the <URL> and the recent acceptance of large tourist groups . You can get all information regarding visas and associated fees from the <URL> . Note also that unless traveling <URL> , women will have the most difficult time getting a visa into Saudi Arabia ( it 's easier if they are old , but not guaranteed nevertheless ) . Women will be required to wear an abaya ( full face and body cover ) once they get off of the plane and in all public places throughout their stay . Men should not wear shorts in public or go without a shirt ( think of taking clothing like the one you require for visiting a mosque for your whole trip inside KSA ) . Men and women who are not relatives are not allowed to travel together in Saudi Arabia if <URL> are not with them at all times . Finally , you have to be a Muslim ( and prove it through a certificate delivered by your imam if your name does n't sound Muslim ) to enter Makkah and Madinah .
My parents live in Anuradhapura and I live in Kandy , and I make this trip up and down at least once a month . The earliest Intercity from A/pura to Kandy is at 4.30-5 AM from A/pura . Reaches Kandy at about 7.30 AM , depends on the traffic . The last bus departs at 7.30 PM , reaches Kandy at 9.30-10PM but you will not find any other buses in A6 road ( Kandy to Mahiyangana road which has many tourist hotels ) , Three-wheelers are available but expect to pay a slightly higher price . For A1 ( Kandy to Colombo ) , you will find a bus even at the mid-night . Kandy to A/pura buses are available every 30 mins from 6.30 AM to 6.45 PM . You can call +94252225257 ( A/pura bus depot ) and ask them if they have buses available . Also , there are 2 routes in between A/pura and Kandy . 42 and 43 . A/C buses are only available in 43 because the 42 is a little bumpy road near A/pura . Buses in 42 route , IMO , are very uncomfortable compared to 43 's .
<URL> will take you there . One-way fare is E2 .40 but you 'll need an " <URL> " for each member of your group ( normal cards are E7 .50 , there are disposable cards that may be cheaper but I have n't found their price online . Or you can buy a <URL> for E7 .50 .
I 'll try to answer on the assumption that you 're asking mostly about the relative practicality of a day trip , rather than asking for a sort of value judgment on the merits of an overnight . You can see a number of popular tourist destinations on a day trip to Kamakura from Tokyo . Additionally , it 's a somewhat sleepy city that , in comparison to much of Tokyo or Yokohama , as temples and shrines close to the public around sunset and retail mostly sort of shuts down around 5:30 -6 pm or so , and unless you 're staying for an unusually late dinner and drinks sort of thing , it 's perfectly easy to get back to nearly anywhere in Tokyo as long as you leave by 10pm or so . Train frequency decreases later in the evening , and that 's the main risk you have to getting back to your hotel . If you plan ahead or use the mobile version of <URL> web site , that should n't be a big problem . The primary benefit of an overnight is that it simply is n't practical to see more than two or three of the major shrines/temples in a single day . Some of the best known ones , like the Daibutsu at Kōtoku-in , can be a pretty substantial walk from other major destinations , like Hachimangu Shrine , so if you have a long list of places you 'd like to see and you 're not motivated to navigate local buses or take taxis to reduce your travel time , or if it happens to be a busy tourist season or pilgrimage season with lots of lines , you might lose a lot of time to travel and waiting . If you have lots of places you want to see , and you want to navigate the little shops selling lacquerware and leather goods and so on that Kamakura is fairly well known for , allow time for lunch and snacks , and stop impromptu at whatever sights you stumble on without advance planning , it can be nice to have the advantages of an early morning after an overnight stay so that you do n't have to push yourself too hard .
Tackling the London-Manchester bit , <URL> runs regular services on this route . If you book in advance , tickets should be under # 20 each way . There are several fast trains an hour , and it takes about 2 hours for the trip . You can get timetables and book tickets on the virgin trains website ( amongst others ) One note about UK advanced train tickets - tickets generally go on sale 3 months in advance . The very cheapest tickets will often sell out that week , but you can normally get some fairly sensibly priced ones for several weeks after . ( There are normally advanced tickets at a couple of different price points for most journeys ) . Finding out exactly when tickets are on sale to does vary in difficulty , <URL> as an example display their booking dates on their homepage , others do n't . Another snag is that tickets are n't released until engineering work is announced . This may mean that weekend tickets go on sale later than weekday ones , and some companies will have their weekend tickets available weeks before others ! Advanced purchase train tickets are almost always for a specific train , and non changeable . They are generally only available on longer journeys , but you can sometimes get a local journey at each end included ( depending on the company ) . I think almost all the train companies offer them , but advanced tickets are generally tied to just that one company . This means that if you want to do a journey that involves two companies , you 'll often need to book two advanced tickets ... Finally , if you 're booking fairly last minute , expect things to be rather expensive , especially on popular routes . If you 're booking on the day / almost on the day , you may be able to save a little bit by taking a slower train . Ask at the ticket office about that , and they 'll tell you if it 's possible . Another option that may be available is <URL> , where you find that splitting your long journey up into lots of local legs can be cheaper ! Oh , and if you 're travelling off peak and with a child , then get a Family Railcard . There 's an annual fee , but you 'll generally save that on any single long journey . You ca n't start too early , and you must have at least one child in the group , but for family leisure journeys it can save a lot .
Apart from the regular travel search , DB also features a <URL> ( rough translation : cheap price finder ) . You will need to use the out-of-country one that I linked ( hopefully the link does n't die ) , select Sweden as the country and Stockholm as the station . It features four options from Saarbrücken to Stockholm ranging from $ 139 to $ 169 if you do n't have a BahnCard ( and are 31 ; I randomly put in an age because it asks you to and I did n't want to risk youth prices ) . If you can , you really should book a single through ticket . If you do , then it 's not your fault if you miss any train due to delays . No matter how you do it , there is going to be a night connection somewhere . Since German railways do not see themselves as competent enough to offer night trains with sleeper cars , you are either restricted to a night in a sitting train or one at a station ( one connection I can see has you wait 3:50 h in Neumünster -- not exactly my definition of a successful night ;) ) . Of course , you can always break your journey into two , but you ca n't book that via the Sparpreisfinder directly . However , if you set your eyes on a specific part in Denmark/Sweden , you can go back to the usual journey planner and select a stay of however long at a German station of your desire . You will still be able to book a through ticket . The connections I got : Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 15:47 , arrives in Mannheim at 17:13 ( RE 4114 ) ICE ; leaves Mannheim at 18:00 , arrives in Hamburg at 22:54 ( ICE 572 ) InterCity ( operated by DSB ) ; leaves Hamburg at 23:42 , arrives in Copenhagen at 06:56 ( IC 231 ; this is a typical Danish intercity train set ) X2000 ; leaves Copenhagen at 08:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 13:39 ( X2 530 ; <URL> ) Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 16:46 , arrives in Mannheim at 18:18 ( RE 4116 ) ICE ; leaves Mannheim at 18:29 , arrives in Kassel-Wilhelmshöhe at 20:41 ( ICE 274 ) ICE ; leaves Kassel at 21:36 , arrives in Hamburg at 00:36 ( ICE 782 ) Regional train , leaves Hamburg at 00:45 , arrives in Neumünster at 01:41 ( RE 21140 ) A night at Neumünster station Regional train , leaves Neumünster at 05:30 , arrives in Flensburg at 06:46 ( RE 21050 ) InterCity , leaves Flensburg at 06:50 , arrives in Fredericia at 08:10 ( IC 5721 ) Lyntog , leaves Fredericia at 08:22 , arrives in Copenhagen at 10:41 ( LYN 51018 ) X2000 , leaves Copenhagen at 11:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 16:39 ( X2 536 ) Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 21:47 , arrives in Mannheim at 23:35 ( RE 4126 ) InterCity ; leaves Mannheim at 02:15 , arrives in Hamburg at 09:05 ( IC 60478 ; I suspect that this is also a night train , but the Sparpreisfinder can not find sleeping cars or whatever ) ICE ; leaves Hamburg at 09:28 , arrives in Copenhagen at 14:22 ( ICE 33 ; crosses the Fehmarn belt by ferry ) X2000 ; leaves Copenhagen at 15:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 20:39 ( X2 544 ) All this was plugging a random day . You see that you get two general routes : Northwards to Hamburg and then either across the Danish mainland to Copenhagen or across the Fehmarn belt . The last leg is identical .
ATMs will only dispense cash in the local currency , but you might be able to get USD from a money changer because USD is quite popular .
When you have a card from another EU-country , it 's possible that your bank has a partnership with one or more German banks and those will have the lowest fees . You should ask your bank . At the airports and train stations there are some ATMs that have very high fee - avoid those . Use only ATMs that belong to banks ( Postbank , Deutsche Bank , Sparkasse , Citi Bank etc. . ) . I think that Sparkasse and Volksbank do n't have low fees , but I 'm not 100 % sure . Before every withdrawal , the ATM will show you the fee and you can confirm or cancel .
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
No , you do not need an ESTA . In this context , " transit " means travelling from country A to country B with a stop in the USA on the way . You are already in the USA and are not intending to enter or leave , so your flight is a domestic flight . The ESTA and VWP rules do not apply . As a domestic flight passenger , you will not encounter US Customs and Border Protection officers . You will still have to pass through airport security ( TSA ) , but that applies to all flights and they do not deal with visa issues at all .
Yes , you can . Maestro Cards work with every <URL> in Switzerland . The currency of the card does n't matter . The fees depends on the issuing institute ( bank ) . ATMs of the Swiss Post ( the yellow ones ) charge an extra fee .
I 've found that they 're reliable during the day but can be problematic ( no cars available ) after midnight . In that case I recommend using their local ( slightly pricier ) equivalent <URL> . In Terminal 1 they pick up from the parking lot P1 outside the arrivals hall . In Terminal 2 they pick up from outside the departures hall . The app will tell you where you 'll be picked up once you select the airport as your location :
It depends on what you consider ' special skills ' . With some excercise , paddling should be feasible for most people . For the English Channel , you can easily find operators and boat charterers offering planning support or equipment rent : <URL> Crossing the Øresund may not be much more than 5km ( depending on where you cross ) and can obviously be done with very simple equipment . Here 's a video of two Swedes crossing on stand up paddleboards : <URL>
end question
start question
How easy is it to exchange US dollars to shekels in Israel ?
There are hundreds of money changers all over Tel Aviv . Most of them charge a relatively small currency spread so there 's little point in walking around for comparision unless you 're changing thousands of dollars . You can check out the latest cash exchange rates at the <URL> : ] All Postal Offices in Tel Aviv provide money changing services . The current spread for the postal office is ~ 2.4 % . When looking for in Tel-Aviv , try to find someone who charges similar rates to the link above .
I have been to Dhaka many , many times . In these times I stayed in two different hotels , they both had toilet paper just like any other hotel in the world . A quick google image search using the query <URL> revealed a lot of toilet photos for hotel toilets there , all of them seem to show toilet paper . Also , reading Dhaka hotel reviews in TripAvidor showed no such issue . Finally , you are free to ask for the toilet paper because most people who live in countries where they use water instead of toilet paper they also use toilet paper to dry after using the water . So no worries .
Garanti Bank provides a 24h currency exchange at the airport . They have counters in the arrival halls of terminals 1 and 2 , as well as in the domestic terminal . In addition there are plenty of ATM 's . If ever the queue at the bank is too long , you can grasp some notes from a machine and exchange the Pound Sterling later on in Antalya . Note that in the city you may find better rates than at the airport . <URL> <URL>
It is perfectly fine . The call to prayer is frequently televised so there is nothing wrong with recording it and posting it on youtube . It is done often . However , do not go to the mosque during prayer and start recording there . Its not that its not allowed , its just that you 'll have to have prior permission and you may be a distraction to the congregation .
This is definitely possible . I grew up in the Alps and I can think of at least a dozen places like that . The problem is that most of them are privately owned and it might not be so easy to get access to one . There is a <URL> about renting such huts in Switzerland , but unfortunately the listings are only in German . Note that even if some of the house is not totally isolated you can be quite sure to be alone if you go there in low season during the week as those are nowadays mostly used as holiday homes . You should be looking into something which is accessible only by walking to increase your chances of being let alone . Note that most of those places will have running water ( water being abundant in the Alps ) , maybe electricity via a solar panel but most likely no Internet .
Do n't worry . Finding temporary unskilled jobs in Australia is easy , the economy is booming and Australians do n't want to do them so hostels , cafes , restaurants , ski resorts , farms etc rely quite heavily on cheap , seasonal backpacker/working holiday labor . As Mark says , the easiest thing is to simply ask around at your hostel after arrival , but also take a look at <URL> to get an idea of the type of jobs and wages on offer .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
I use five strategies to pay for things when I travel : The best rates are often the rates you get with your American credit card or debit card . Try to charge as much as you can . The fees are very low and the exchange rates are fair . However , many American banks charge several dollars for every foreign currency transaction , so if you plan to spend a lot of time in Europe , you may want to apply for a credit card with low or free foreign currency transactions . Right now , Capital One has a reputation for being the best deal on foreign currency . My second favorite strategy is to get cash out of foreign ATMs using my own bank 's debit card attached to my checking account . I 've never had a problem with this , but I have heard that if your PIN is more than 4 digits , it may not work internationally . There are a few countries where most ATMs do n't like American bank cards , notoriously Japan . In Japan , if you can find a post office , they have ATMs that are happy to accept American bank cards . Any kind of transaction that involves a human being standing behind a counter changing money for you is going to be bloody expensive . Like , 15 % expensive ... or more . You have to pay for the person and the counter . I very rarely do this . Very rarely , in Europe , you will find yourself dealing with an automatic machine that ONLY accepts credit cards and which keeps asking you for a PIN or refusing to read your American credit card . The most common places I 've had this happen : Automatic ticket machines at railroad stations Bicycle rental machines Unattended gas stations Toll booths in France Essentially what 's happening here is that European credit cards have an embedded chip and require a PIN , while American credit cards use a magnetic stripe . In some situations in Europe you must pay with a Chip and PIN credit card . See <URL> for information about getting a chip and pin card as an American . There is some evidence that <URL> . In a pinch , you 'll discover that nicer hotels are often happy to convert money for you . The rates are not very good , but if you keep a few hundred dollars in US cash hidden away somewhere safe , it 'll get you out of just about any kind of situation .
After visiting Grjótagjá , I 'm able to respond my own question since @MikkaRin answer is not as complete as it should be . When you arrive to Grjótagjá you find these panel : It 's self-explanatory : " The public is prohibited from bathing or use of caves for purposes other than for inspection and photography " . Given this , it states that the temperature is between 43 and 46 degrees , over the <URL> ( that is near 42ºC ) . Also , the panel warns about the possibility of falling rocks and leaves at your own risk the entry . So if with all this you still want to bathe , is possible ? Yes . When we first stayed there , nobody was watching the site and a couple of islanders ( probably , not confirmed ) were leaving the site after bathing . The next morning , when we returned to make some photos with natural light , nobody was at this area . What happen if you bathe ? I confess we bathed . We made a flexible interpretation of the panel : we can bathe here if we have a photographic purpose . Also , we thought that we ca n't have any problem with the owner of the land or the authorities ( because we stayed just 30 minutes , nobody guarding and other people were bathing here before we arrive ) and we thought the probability of failing rocks were very low . The big problem was the water temperature . It 's very hot , hotter than I have ever tried ( in Budapest I could stay 15 minutes without any problem in a 42ºC hot tub ) . I had to go out after 10 minutes and other friends could n't ever stay more than 5 minutes . After bathing , you have to dry up very fast or you will start to shiver and start feeling sick ( it happened to 2 of 5 persons in the group ) .
If you pay by Dollar ( or home currency ) The hotel will add a charge for this , hence you will be paying more . If you pay by local currency the exchange rate will be decided by the credit card company or bank . These exchange rates are much better than the hotel rates . <URL> for more information regarding this service for Visa holders . AFAIK , Other companies have similar services so this applies to all other credit cards .
The Czech police website has a <URL> of the current legal situation , albeit only in Czech . Selling marijuana for whatever amount of money or services is a criminal offence , punishable for one to five years in prison : § 187 Nedovolená výroba a držení omamných a psychotropních látek a jedů ( 1 ) Kdo neoprávněně vyrobí , doveze , vyveze , proveze , nabízí , zprostředkuje , prodá nebo jinak jinému opatří nebo pro jiného přechovává omamnou nebo psychotropní látku , přípravek obsahující omamnou nebo psychotropní látku , prekursor nebo jed , bude potrestán odnětím svobody na jeden rok až pět let . Buying marijuana is n't a specific criminal or civil offense , however it obviously leads to possession . Possession of marijuana is a civil offense , as long as the quantity of the drug is for personal consumption . If one is found to be in violation of this law , they may be fined by up to 15000 ( ~ 550 ) . However it 's rare for the police to care about this particular misdemeanor , so most drug users are ignored . ( 1 ) Přestupku se dopustí ten , kdo j ) neoprávněně přechovává v malém množství pro svoji potřebu omamnou nebo psychotropní látku ( 2 ) Za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . a ) až d ) lze uložit pokutu do 3 000 Kč , za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . e ) a f ) pokutu do 5 000 Kč a zákaz činnosti do 1 roku , za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . g ) až i ) pokutu od 25 000 Kč do 50 000 Kč a zákaz činnosti od 1 do 2 let a za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . j ) a k ) pokutu do 15 000 Kč What quantity of marijuana is considered to be for personal consumption is not strictly defined , however the Supreme Court has recommended <URL> to be used as a cut-off . Smoking marijuana is n't defined as a separate offence , however it 's obviously impossible without possessing a certain quantity . Likewise there 's no separate offence for being intoxicated from marijuana . Growing marijuana is also illegal . Keeping up to 5 plants is a civil offense ( punishable by a fine of up to 15000 ) or a criminal offense if more than 5 plants are grown : Konopí lze pěstovat i doma , ale pouze do obsahu THC 0,3 % , což je uvedeno v zákoně č . 167/1998 Sb . o návykových látkách a jedná se o tzv . technické konopí . Pokud z něj následně budu vyrábět drogu marihuana , nejedná se zcela jistě o tzv . technické konopí s obsahem účinné látky THC do 0,3 % a tudíž se jedná buď o přestupek podle § 30 odst . 1 písm . k ) zák . č . 200/1990 Sb . o přestupcích , přičemž za malé množství se považuje rozsah do pěti rostlin . Šest a více rostlin pěstovaných s obsahem THC vyšším než 0,3 % je považováno za trestný čin podle § 285 trestního zákoníku č . 40/2009 Sb . A to platí pro jakékoliv pěstování , tedy i pro léčebné účely , pokud nejsem držitelem udělené licence Ministerstvem zdravotnictví ČR . Výroba návykové látky je trestným činem podle § 283 tr . zákoníku , bez ohledu na množství vyráběné drogy . Medical marijuana has been <URL> , however prescriptions from other countries are not valid . The conditions of getting a prescription from a local doctor are much stricter than in places like California , so it 's not something feasible for a tourist .
There 's a place in Santiago that is famous for having lots and lots of casas de cambio , which is located on Agustinas near Paseo Ahumada , about <URL> : Along Agustinas , you will find lots and lots of places that exchange money : If anybody in Santiago is going to buy Paraguayan Guaranies , you 'll find them there . Unfortunately , the day I was in the area to take these photos was Sunday , so everybody was closed up for the day ( oh , by the way , almost everywhere in Santiago is closed on Sundays ) , so I was n't able to stop in and ask . An alternative approach would be to go on traveler and expat sites like <URL> and <URL> and see if anybody in Santiago is traveling to Paraguay and wants to buy your Guaranies ... but I think a trip to Agustinas would be more exciting ( : Safety This part of Santiago is not exactly dangerous , but it 's not the safest part , either . Pickpocketing and snatch-and-run crimes are fairly common in this part of town , so when you come out here , you might want to leave your valuables at home , and do n't bring HUGE amounts of cash with you . Agustinas is about 2 block away from a Metro station , or you can hail a cab in the street if you do n't want to walk a long distance after walking out of a currency exchange .
While not exactly casual , there 's an organization called " <URL> " that 's specialized in teaching the Khmer language to foreigners . The organization <URL> as of late 2015 . Their fees per hour are : 4 $ with a group of 3-4 people 5 $ with a group of 2 people 8 $ for individual I believe $ 4 would be small enough for most Westerners to count as a " small cover charge " .
Although nowhere near as ubiquitous as in the US , coffee shops are relatively common in major Thai cities , especially those with high tourist numbers ( eg , Bangkok , Chang Mai ) . In addition to over 100 Starbucks stores around the country you 'll also find countless McDonalds , many of which have " McCafe " and - depending on the area - many western style coffee shops serving your choice of various forms of espresso and drip coffees . When ordering it 's worth making sure that you 're getting what you think you are . " Cappuccino " does n't vary around the world as much as some other drinks , but there are slight variations between countries ( and often between shops in the same counties ! ) . Starbucks has the edge here in that they will almost always make the US version of a drink regardless of what country you 're in . Expect to pay about the same as what you would in the US , which means that your morning coffee could well be the most expensive thing you buy all day !
Driving from Lusaka to Livingstone is straightforward . Most of the road is in reasonable enough shape , though last time I did the journey ( about 4 years ago ) , there were still a few bad , potholed filled , stretches . But , even a regular ( non 4x4 ) car will be able to do the journey fairly easily . There are several very reasonable hotels and guesthouses on the Zambian side , so for that you will not have to cross the border . And unless Victoria Falls ( town ) has gone through an economic upturn , the nicer restaurants ( and South African chains ) are on the Zambian side . You do not need a visa for the other country ( Zimbabwe if you 're coming from Zambia ) to get onto the bridge that connects the two . But , if you 're continuing onwards , whether you can get a visa at the border depends on the passport you hold . Crossing from one to the other , though , is straightforward . But in your case , you will need a day visa for Zimbabwe and a multiple entry visa for Zambia . For many nationalities , these can simple be obtained at both borders . It 's said that the Zimbabwean side of the falls is prettier . In my opinion , this might indeed be true , but only marginally so . There 's no real need to check out the falls from the other side if you think it 's a bit much of a hassle .
I live in Japan and every day commute with trains and metro . And can assure you that nobody will think you are rude by offering the seat . From my personal experience : I have a rule to always give up my seat to Disabled/injured people Pregnant women ( in Japan they wear a badge like this <URL> ) Elderly women and man People with huge bags ; often you 'll see women with gigantic , heavy bags they carry from shops The only thing is that I will confirm - many elderly people turn down the offer . Sometimes because they go out in the next station , sometimes they just do n't want to . But in any case they will give you a polite response . I actually feel more pressure to stay near the seat I 've given up , because Japanese will thank you many-many times after taking the seat and I feel shy of such attention for such a trivial thing . So long story short - feel free to show your kindness and do n't over-think about some people seeing it as rudeness . Especially in Japan where people are usually very polite .
I spent 47 days in Guatemala in 2009 as a backpacker and I did not have any problems even while taking local buses in Guatemala City and walking around there quite a bit . However I did hear from tourists who were victims of petty crime and you also see ' security guards ' with machine guns all over the place . Usually next to banks and more expensive shops . I also heard that richer local families still only go out with security guards . It 's all a bit different if you are going with your family , especially with young kids . It is hard for me as an experienced single traveler to say how a family would be treated there . Just going to the top tourist attractions does not help , on the contrary , place like Antigua have more petty crime than other similar sized towns just because there are so many tourists there . Many local tourist offices just sell tours that are then organized by other agencies . I 've heard some horror stories from people who did book tours . So my advice would be to find other tourists who just came back from the tour you are planning to do and then ask them about their experience . So the question remains : ' Would I go with my kids ? ' Maybe not with a six month old , wait five years . Your kids will enjoy it more and the security situation is likely to be better too .
From <URL> : Switzerland is not part of the European Union and the currency is the Swiss franc ( or Franken or franco , depending in which language area you are ) , divided into 100 centimes , Rappen or centesimi . However , many places - such as supermarkets , restaurants , sightseeings ' box offices , hotels and the railways or ticket machines - accept Euro and will give you change in Swiss Francs or in Euro if they have it in cash . A check or a price-label contain prices both in francs and in Euro . Usually in such cases the exchange-rate comply with official exchange-rate , but if it differs you will be notified in advance . Changing some money to Swiss Francs ( CHF ) is essential . Money can be exchanged at all train stations and most banks throughout the country . Switzerland is more cash-oriented than most other European countries . It is not unusual to see bills being paid by cash , even Fr 200 and Fr 1000 notes . Some establishments ( but fewer than before ) do not accept credit cards so check first . When doing credit card payments , carefully review the information printed on the receipt ( details on this can be found in the " Stay Safe " section below ) . All ATMs accept foreign cards , getting cash should not be a problem . As they mention , there are ATMs everywhere , which is what I did when I went - I simply drew cash on arrival . I do this in all my travels - it 's convenient , and only ' failed ' in Buenos Aires where one of the airport ATMs was down , and in Uzbekistan ( Khiva ) where only one bank in town could let you draw money from my card type , and there were no ATMs .
I believe it depends on the issuing authority , but usually about two weeks if you pay the fee to have it expedited . You really ca n't ask for a definitive time , because it also depends on how busy they are . I have friends who paid the fee and got their passports renewed in just under two weeks , but that was a few years ago . If you were born outside of the US and the issuing authority is the US State Department , it can take longer . I was informed of this when I received my daughter 's passport , she was born abroad . If you are out of the country and renewing through your local embassy , give it several months either way . I recently got a renewal in Manila which took just under 10 days , and inquired if that 's the usual amount of time from most embassies and they said yes . But , do n't let paperwork kerfuffles jeopardize your travel plans , or being abroad without a valid passport for a little while . Additionally , if renewing the passport for someone under the age of 16 , bring pictures of them that show their growth from their last passport photo to their appearance now . The consulate might let you slide if the resemblance is uncanny , but be prepared - not having these could cause substantial delays . To be safe , I 'd allow at least two months . You might not be able to expedite it if you 're out of the country , so keep that in mind . Otherwise , pay the extra fee , the worst that can happen is you get it sooner than expected . That is of course if not having it renewed in time might put a dent in your travel plans .
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
end question
start question
Is there public transport in and around Cairns , Australia out of regular hours ?
To look up public transport options in Queensland , sadly there is n't currently one single place to look . For south east Queensland , the <URL> has a journey planner that covers buses , trains and ferries for the area . Unfortunately , you 're after information on a different bit of the state , so Translink is no help ... <URL> provides urban bus information and planners in most of the state , which will help you with planning journeys around Cairns itself . It does n't cover long distance services , which is what you 'd want . The main long distance bus operators on the east coast are <URL> ( only runs from Cairns south ) and <URL> , but neither seem to currently serve Port Douglas . There are a few local services , such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , but nothing that runs that late/early . The upshot is that I think in order to get there then , you might have to get a taxi ... Or , why not just get the last bus there the evening before , and kip on the beach ?
The <URL> ( 沖縄クラシックカー協会 ) has a <URL> atop a garage specializing in , you guessed it , classic cars . All visitors welcome . In Ginowan on the main island , not far from the US Army base , so I imagine they 've had the odd long-nose visiting in the past . Open Mon-Sat 8:30 -18:30 , <URL> . The one problem for you is that they appear to specialize in the one thing that 's neither Japanese nor American , namely European cars .
I just checked the <URL> website and I think that 's exactly what you 're looking for .
I ca n't tell you why you get no results with a Google transit search , but I can tell you that you wo n't find anything useful searching the OC Transpo web site unless you already know exactly where you 're going , and it wo n't show you what you need to know anyway since OC Transpo does n't really go into Gatineau . So , here 's the kind of so-so news . There are buses which reach the southermost edges of the park boundaries , but they do not go into or around the park , and do not reach as far as the visitor centre or many of the places within the park you might want to go . You 'll have a bit of a hike ahead of you . Fortunately there are plenty of hiking trails ... So , <URL> routes 35 and 48 reach the southeast and southwest boundaries of the park respectively , and you can get either of these in downtown Ottawa . They enter Wellington Street at the Portage Bridge and travel to their last Ottawa stop at Rideaux and Cumberland , before returning to Gatineau via King Edward Avenue . The <URL> shows a few other routes which overlap those at some points , in case those might also be useful to you . ( For instance , routes 35 and 48 only run Monday-Friday , and you may want to find a weekend bus . ) Cash fare is $ 3.90 , and some discounts are available .
Here is the schedule for the rest of 2012 , which I got from <URL> . It was apparently compiled from <URL> . According to the page you linked to , " Upon check-in at a Walt Disney World Resort hotel , Guests will receive a schedule detailing when each park offers Extra Magic Hours " so if any last minute changes have occurred , that will be the most accurate . But the information below should allow you to start planning .
You are correct that most people travel by car . The main roads are excellent and signage is impeccable . The best I 've seen anywhere ! There are even maps along the road every few hundred kilometers . The other main form of transportation are buses . Within a city , they are easy to take and there is also an extensive network of bus routes . Most , if not all , are available from June to August . The central station in Reykjavik is very well connect but as you go to most other cities , you basically encounter buses going in 2 or 3 directions at most . It 's hard to get lost ! The main issue if with timing , inter-city buses have fixed schedules which are not that frequent . I recall 1 to 4 times daily , depending on the popularity of the route . The tourist-oriented options do a circuit which lets you see more than one site in a day without having to time the buses yourself . When you consider timing , your schedule not only gets dictated by bus timetables but you also arrive and leave exactly at the same time as everyone else . You lose the sense desolation and immersion with nature is lessened as the hordes of people coming out of buses are large and noisy . You can bridge some gaps in the bus network with domestic flights and even ferries . Usually short-cut between fjords . These are certainly not cheap and neither are car rentals by the way . I met a few people who brought their own car from Denmark since there is a thrice-weekly ferry which lands on the east side of Iceland . One of them basically drove from Italy in order to have is own car there .
Coaches in Cuba - Astro and Viazul There are two main coach companies providing island-wide transport in Cuba : AstroBus and <URL> . Astro caters mostly to Cuban residents and intrepid travellers . Most of the seats are available for purchase only to residents with a valid ID , and just a few are available for foreigners albeit at higher rates . Overall its fares , quoted in local currency , are cheaper and , although recently upgraded , its fleet of coaches offer slightly less comfort with respect to its competition . Viazul bus fares , quoted in , are slightly more expensive , in exchange for an air-conditioned ( sometimes too much ) coach with washrooms and televisions . <URL> , these coaches are more reliable than Astro , cover most of the interesting tourist destinations , and adhere to a pre-established timetable ( i.e. buses try to be on time as often as possible ) . <URL> : Víazul is Cuba 's hard currency bus line and is by far the best choice of public transportation to tour the island . They run comfortable air-conditioned long-distance coaches with washrooms and televisions to most places of interest to tourists . The buses are getting a bit grubby , but they are reliable and punctual . Complete schedules can be found on the Viazul website ( the Varadero - Santa Clara - Cienfuegos - Trinidad and return service is missing from the website but runs daily ) . The buses can be used theoretically by anyone , including Cubans , but in reality , few Cubans can afford the convertable peso fares . Reservations can be made in advance , but are usually unnecessary except at peak travel times . Do not waste your time making an on-line reservation on the website -- that feature rarely works . Refreshments are not served , despite what the website says , but the buses stop for meal breaks at highway restaurants with bad food . ( Bring your own food ! ) The buses are often over air conditioned , so bring along something warm to wear . Note that most westbound buses from Santiago de Cuba run overnight . Trains There is a train network in Cuba which covers most of the island . Below is a map of the Cuban rail network , <URL> : However , according to various sources on the web , it 's organisation and reliability are a matter of opinion . <URL> : The main train line in the country runs between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , with major stops at Santa Clara and Camagüey . Trains also run to other cities such as Cienfuegos , Manzanillo , Morón , Sancti Spiritus , and Pinar del Rio . There is one reliable train in Cuba : the overnight Tren Francès between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , which runs on alternate days . It uses equipment that was formerly operated on the Trans-Europe Express , and donated to Cuba by France a few years ago ( hence the name ) . There are first class and special first class seats on this train ( the special seats are better and more expensive ) , but no sleepers . If only one train in Cuba is running , this will be it . All other trains in Cuba are unreliable . The equipment is often in poor condition , breakdowns are common , and when they occur , you can be stuck for the better part of the day ( or night ) waiting for a replacement engine . There are no services on the trains , so bring plenty of food and water with you . Trains are frequently cancelled . Some trains offer first class seats ( do n't expect too much ) ; others have second class seats , which can be very uncomfortable . Schedules are at best optimistic and should always be checked in advance of travel . There are no sleepers on overnight routes . If you are still thinking of taking a train , other than the Tren Francès , you should know that many Cubans prefer to hitchhike than take the train . If you are still determined to take a train , approximate schedules are given under the different city descriptions . Foreginers must pay much higher fares ( which is still very cheap ) than the locals . Tickets are roughly two-thirds what Viazul charges . Theft is a problem so watch your luggage ! Hitch-hiking Hitch-hiking is a valid alternative form of transportation which is widely used in Cuba by both locals and tourists , and hence is surprisingly well organised . Indeed there are dedicated , manned , pick-up points for hitch-hikers . These Yellow Points ( Punto Amarillo ) are found both inside the city , on the outskirts , and on certain highway routes . Tell the man-in-yellow your destination and he will hail a vehicle for you . Once he finds you a ride , you pay the man , which is a government official , and contribute to the Cuban economy whilst getting a ride to your next destination . Note that you 'll need to chew some Spanish language to use this service efficiently - you want to make sure the man-in-yellow understands your destination correctly . <URL> : The Cuban government 's system for facilitating hitchhiking is by far the most economical way for foreigners to travel in Cuba , though a flexible schedule and good Spanish are a must . Known as " El Amarillo " ( " the yellow guy " ) for the yellowy-bei
With the help of the very handy <URL> , it turns out it can be done just fine ! Currently , there are no trains serving the Sunshine Coast ( though a <URL> ) . Instead , you need to take a <URL> from Roma Street Station or Central Station , and then change at somewhere like Woombye for the bus to the coast . The train takes about 2 hours from Brisbane , then it 's about another 45 minutes on the bus to Mooloolaba . There 's roughly one train an hour , and the last southbound train leaves Nambour just after 8pm on a weekday . So , it is possible to leave Brisbane in the morning , spend the afternoon on the Sunshine Coast , then head back in the evening , all by public transport . Oh , and just to note , sometimes off-peak the " train " between Nambour and Caboolture is actually a <URL> due to a lack of track capacity , which is a little bit slower .
<URL> is your best option . <URL> on where and how to find them : The shuttles are white colored and parked in front of the terminal building arrivals level exit ready to take you to Taksim for a fee of 14 TL and to Kadıköy for a fee of 9 TL . Shuttle 's Taksim departure point is across Taksim Divan hotel , in front of the Point Hotel .
Paragliding is possible around Lake Toba , there even was <URL> , however it seems the sport has not quite picked up as you report that companies used to fly around there , @Madlozoz reports in a comment frequently going there for weekends and never having seen them and the conclusion of the answer by @Nathan Shoesmith is the same . I found two other leads that might be worth contacting if you are very willing to do the trip ( I 'm not contacting anyone without a personal interest but you might want to ) : <URL> has paragliding pics from the festival but also a few months after and seems to have a flying-related store in Medan . There is an address , phone numbers and you could reach him via FB message . The site has reviews recent as 2015 . <URL> offers paragliding tours around Lake Toba ( I ca n't quite make out if there 's also single day activities but sure you could ask ) . There 's a contact form , no price info and the copyright is as of 2014 so not sure if that service is still running . They are based in Bekasi , West Java , <URL> Alternative 1 : Ask any of the providers of multiday-tours you found for a quote for a tandem flight around Lake Toba . If you pay right I can not imagine they would not be willing . Alternative 2 : There seems to be a more active paragliding scene in <URL> and the nearby <URL> is also of volcanic origin as well as fairly peaceful <URL> is <URL> I found several operators in the area through <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> even give a quote for a short flight : 300.000 / pax Now I am sure some of these links are inactive but others might not . If you are not satisfied with flying around the area there , you could always ask these guys for a quote for lake Toba . Also <URL> ( to which +1 ) offers tours around lake Toba and as mentioned above it would not hurt asking for the single-day lake Toba-version . I 'm afraid these are only leads at best but they might still be helpful to anyone stumbling upon this post .
You could take a <URL> bus directly from <URL> for 39 $ ( or 35 $ for " Promotional Ticket - can not be changed or refunded ! " ) The trip takes 4 to 4 1/2 hours , and looks like there are 1-3 daily connections . I do n't know if this is the cheapest public transport option available ( probably not ) , but it 's much better than the ICE price , and quite convenient because it 's a direct connection .
TL ; DR - they are the days when government support payments are made . They 're in the calendar presumably for budgeting purposes . Pension Day The most common types of pension payments are age pensions - The Age Pension is designed to provide income support to older Australians who need it , while encouraging pensioners to maximise their overall incomes . The Age Pension is paid to people who meet age and residency requirements , subject to a means test . Pension rates are indexed to ensure they keep pace with Australian price and wage increases . <URL> ... and disability support pensions - Financial support for people who have a physical , intellectual , or psychiatric condition that stops them from working or who are permanently blind . <URL> Family Payment Day We provide a range of payments and services that help you look after your children 's education and health care , and any family issues that may come up along the way . <URL>
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
The four extant 1215 copies are on view at : <URL> ( x2 ) <URL> <URL> Part of the problem of making a complete list is that different sources given different total of extant copies , however <URL> . <URL> . There are <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Other sources have different totals , and part of the confusion may be about Durham Cathedral 's third copy - Durham Cathedral lists it as a copy from 1300 , but a number of other sites list it as being from 1217 . Calling them out separately as is common practice , the pre-1300 publications reside at : <URL> ( 1216 and 1225 ) <URL> ( 1217 x3 and 1225 ) . <URL> . <URL> ( 1217 ) <URL> ( 1225 ) <URL> ( 1225 and <URL> ) <URL> ( 1297 ) <URL> ( 1297 . The only privately owned copy . ) <URL> . ( 1297 ) According to the <URL> , we now have the set of pre-1300 locations right . Interestingly this actually differs from the same site 's <URL> . The engrossments from 1300 are located at/in the archives of : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
OK , December 31st is not a <URL> but January 1st is . The Wikipedia article on Rio de Janeiro states in the <URL> that buses run 24 hours , but the metro runs a Sunday service on public holidays ( new years day happens to be a Sunday next year anyway ) Rest of week metro service : 5am - 12am Sunday metro service : 7am - 11pm The <URL> has some in-depth information about getting around Rio like last carriages on the metro being women-only . There is also a full run down of how the taxis work . Several of the visit Rio sites which , I wo n't link to as I 'm not sure if they 're factual so much as outright marketing material , suggest that getting away from the main attractions on new years eve will be extremely time consuming and one should find a club to ' wait it out ' , they also note that several beach-front hotels offer buffet breakfast ' very early ' . Useful stuff I found along the way : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The best option is to buy a " Trampoline " ticket on Lille - Kortrijk . This ticket costs 8 Euro and is valid the whole day on all trains ( both ways ) on the Lille - Kortrijk route . <URL> You can buy this at the ticket office , or from the ticket vending machines . Trying to do it all using " local " transport will make the trip a lot longer , and will unlikely be cheaper than the 8 euro Trampoline ticket . On weekends SNCF also offers Trampoline tickets to other destinations in Belgium . They 're a bit more expensive , but still good deals .
The research you described falls under a type " D " ( national ) visa , but given that your stay is 4 months they have the OPTION of issuing a Schengen . In either case you can travel around the zone unless the visa itself shows a restriction ( which is rare ) . There 's no way of telling what the consulate will do , and you will know when you inspect the visa .
TL ; DR There 's no easy way to find out this information for JR East shinkansen lines . Information for the Kyushu/Sanyo/Tokaido shinkansen lines is easier to find though . I remember seeing trainset types listed in printed timetables for sale in bookstores ( and sometimes in the station ) in Japan . Here 's an example schedule , <URL> , on Amazon Japan . You can see the row in the image below that has 500 , 700 , N700 , etc. showing the trainset type . <URL> However , upon further research , it looks like the train type is primarily only shown for the Tokaido and Sanyo shinkansen lines . You can find some schedules with trainset types online on <URL> . For the shinkansen lines operated by JR East , it looks like things are n't so straight-forward . You can kind of tell by train type what it is , but there 's unfortunately still some ambiguity . It <URL> with the schedule books you might be able to look towards the back where they have drawings of the trainsets to figure out what service uses what kind train , depending on the number of cars , etc. . For example , if you know it 's a Yamabiko + Tsubasa that 's a total of 17 cars , it must be E2 + E3 , if it 's 16 cars , it must E5 + E3 . Definitely not easy though . JR East 's <URL> ( in Japanese ) shows which trains are combined and which trains they consist of ( e.g. Yamabiko + Tsubasa ) . I did , however , found this <URL> ( in Japanese ) that lists some trainset types , but it does it line-by-line , so from Tokyo to Omiya you end up having to check multiple shinkansen line schedules . It 's also hard to tell which ones are couples together ( since they 're usually on different lines ) .
Recently I was watching luggage handlers loading luggage into my plane at Amsterdam Schiphol while I was queueing to board ( 20-30 minutes before takeoff ) . There was a female luggage handler who started unloading a luggage-cart train starting form the last cart . She was very slow and would pick up only smaller pieces . I suppose she was waiting for males to help her with the heavier ones . Smaller as well as soft pieces were actually stacked on top of the carts while the massive hardcases would lie at the bottom of the carts . Clearly some sorting must have been done while loading ( which was reassuring since I was traveling with a soft backpack ) . As I did n't see my luggage there , I suppose it had already been loaded ( I had a 2.5 h transfer at Schiphol ) . However , at the luggage reclaim I got my luggage quite quickly . Interestingly , I met a traveller who had exactly the same flights as me and when I was leaving the airport he was still waiting for his piece . One of differences was - I had a backpack while he had a regular suitcase . My point is , I saw only a small part of the whole process , yet there was plenty of room for scrambling the order . It is mostly manual work done by a number of individuals and I guess that makes it pretty unpredictable . As for the backpacks - I mentioned that as I came across several airports where they have separate bag drops for backpacks with loose straps so I assume there might be different ways of handling these . However , I have n't noticed or heard of any ( dis ) advantages of having this type of luggage . Finally , I kind of accepted that it is a pure chance when I reclaim my luggage and I usually try to do a little trick . I just get busy with various things between the landing and reclaiming the luggage . During that time I tidy up my hand luggage , change clothes when going to warmer/colder places , tidy up my wallet - replacing currencies , preparing bus tickets etc. , go to bathroom to refresh myself , be it makeup or brushing my teeth , also , after a long flight it is nice to do some stretching . Playing with the phone is fine too - change a SIM card , maybe look for a socket to charge it a bit . After completing all these things I approach a baggage reclaim place full of impatient people waiting there already for ages . For me it is only the beginning of waiting and typically I get my luggage within a few minutes and my nerves are saved .
Since April 2016 , the <URL> is now in operation . This is a direct rail line from Denver International Airport to downtown Denver ( Union Station ) . The airport rail station is at the south end of the main terminal . There are trains every 15 minutes most of the day , going to every 30 minutes early mornings and late at night . There are departures from the airport until after 1:00 am . The journey to downtown takes 37 minutes with no transfers . Luggage racks are available on the train . The fare is $ 9.00 and is sold as a day pass , including unlimited rail and bus travel throughout the RTD system for the whole day . ( For marketing purposes , the line is branded as the " University of Colorado A Line " . Its Union Station terminus is reasonably close to the <URL> , but travelers should note that the line does not serve the university 's better-known <URL> . ) Union Station is right at the northwest end of the 16th Street Mall . There is a <URL> running the length of the mall , if you want to get to a different point .
end question
start question
What is the cheapest way to get from Tocumen airport to Albrook bus station ?
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
I 'd say your question is best suited for the gurus over at <URL> , who specialize in wrangling frequent flyer miles and the like . Take a look at the Miles and More forum , as well as the mileage run forum ( which is their term for taking special trips that maximize mileage earned for minimum cost ) . However , if you 're willing to settle for slightly less status ( no first class terminals in Germany , for instance ) consider obtaining Star Alliance gold status on Aegean Airlines for significantly less cost -- only 20,000 miles if I remember correctly . This will allow you priority boarding , lounge access , luggage tags , etc. for less than $ 1000 in flights if you plan it correctly . Look at <URL> for more .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
The standard way would be to take a train . The <URL> is the place to look for train schedules and prices , and you can book online and print most ticket types at home . The website normally shows the fastest routes only , but you can tell it to omit ICEs ( high-speed trains , often more expensive ) or to stick to regional trains ( slowest and usually cheapest ) . The bad news about German rail prices is that they are very complicated . The good news is that the DB trip planner will usually offer you the cheapest price for a given connection . The exception is that sometimes a day ticket is cheaper even for a single trip , and the website wo n't always tell you . Generally speaking , you will get a substantial discount if you decide on a day and time early and book a non-refundable , non-exchangeable ticket . These tickets can often give you high-speed travel for a similar price as regional trains . Some ticket types also include the possibility of local travel ( buses , trams , U-Bahn , S-Bahn ) at the beginning or end of the journey , check if it 's a possibility ( it 's rarely a deciding factor in choosing a fare type ) . At the moment , the cheapest fare I can see in October is 44 $ for a high-speed connection ( direct , or ICE most of the way with one change ) , if you avoid the heaviest-loaded peak hour trains , for a 4 1/2 to 5 hours journey time . Alternatively , you can pay 42 $ for a ticket that lets you travel on all regional trains in Germany for a day provided you start after 9am ( <URL> ) . Do note that Freiburg to Hannover is 10 hours on regional trains . If several of you are traveling on the same route , note that some ticket types offer considerable discounts for additional passengers . For example , the Quer-durchs-Land-Ticket is only 6 $ for each additional passenger traveling together . The <URL> , valid for one day on a Saturday or Sunday in regional trains only , is 39 $ for up to 5 people . Thus one possibility for cheap travel is to find someone who 's taking the same train anyway and offer to pay the add-on price . I do n't foresee this working well for a cross-country journey like yours though . Sometimes you can get cheap fares on budget airlines . These are often only attractive if you have a cheap way to get to and from the airport ; otherwise the cost of local transportation can be prohibitive . There 's no airport near Freiburg ; the closest is the <URL> , and a bus ticket to Freiburg is a whooping <URL> . If you do n't take the train and do n't fly , your other option is to hitch-hike . That can come out cheapest , if you find someone going the right way at the right time . If you 're traveling from the <URL> , the situation is quite different . Flying might be more attractive , though for this particular combination of cities it does n't seem to be : you ca n't fly direct to Hannover , only to Hamburg , and <URL> 's cheapest fare comes out at 41 $ ( including the booking fees in small type ) . The best train route is via Basel ( which you can <URL> by a <URL> <URL> ) ; this requires going through Switzerland ( which may be a problem for some visa types ) . ( While there are both an SNCF ( French railways ) station ( Basel/B âle SNCF ) and a DB ( German railways ) station ( Basel Bad Bf ) in Basel , they are separated by a few hundred meters of Switzerland . The SNCF station is next to the Swiss railway station , Basel SBB . Since Switzerland has joined <URL> , border checks are no longer systematic and Shengen visas are valid . ) At this time , the 44 $ rate from Basel Bad to Hannover is available if you travel near the middle of the day . Book early , as prices will rise towards the standard fare ( 119 $ ) as the travel day approaches . Many discount rates are also valid from Basel SBB ( which is where the bus from the airport drops you ) . There 's also a discount rate for international tickets from and to Germany , <URL> , but I 'm not sure if it 's available from Basel . There 's a direct night train as well ; it 's more expensive than the day train but can be less expensive than the day train plus a night in a hostel . If you need to avoid Switzerland , take a bus to Saint-Louis then French regional trains to Mulhouse and on to Strasbourg . You can look up the times , but not book , on the <URL> ( Saint-Louis is " St-Louis ( Haut Rhin ) " ) . You can look up times and prices on the <URL> ( French only as far as I can see ) ; there are no discounts for advance purchase on regional trains , so buy your ticket when you arrive at the station .
While the city is only 15 minutes drive from the airport at times , given your narrow window , it would make more sense for your friend to come to the airport to meet you . Indeed , <URL> suggests that in busy periods , it can even take up to an hour , which you do n't want if you 're stressing about getting back to your flight ! Assuming your bags are checked through to your final destination , all you need to worry about then is yourself , carry-on and passport/visa situation . For your carry-on and self , remember that you 'll still need to go out through passport control , and get back in through customs , security and passport control . This is common enough for a few hours , I 've done it in several airports where I had a longish layover - I wanted to check out the city . Then your passport/visa - as long as you 're just visiting ( as you suggest ) then <URL> . So it should be a case of zipping through passport control , meeting your friend , and have some time to enjoy the airport , making sure to allow yourself enough time to get back through to your plane . Enjoy !
I did a lot of googeling during the last few days and I finally found a more or less cheap flight . It seems that <URL> has regular flights from Zurich to Elba . Unfortunately I could n't find these flights neither on ebookers nor on some well-known matrix flight search engines . However , <URL> starting at 112 Euros . So it is cheaper and faster than taking the train .
Adioso lets you search for any time . Additionally Skyscanner lets you search across an entire month . Generally Skyscanner has a better range . <URL> has a good overview of searching for a trip in this way .
The following route is cheaper , but not all that much , and it 's not possible in a day . Bus from Taipei to Keelung , NT$ 55 ( < US$ 2 ) , every 10 min Ferry from Keelung to Matsu , NT$ 620 ( ~ US$ 21 ) in economy , daily except Wed , overnight ( dep 21:50 , arr 08:30 ) Ferry from Matsu to Fuzhou ( Mawei ) , NT$ 1300 ( ~ US$ 43 ) , daily at 2pm , ~ 2 hours Train from Fuzhou to Shenzhen , US$ 23 in hard seat , dep 21:25 arr 16:00 next day Total price ~ US$ 85 , but time required close to 48 hours . Note that you can substitute both Taipei-Matsu and Fuzhou-Shenzhen with flights , or travel Fuzhou-Shenzhen on faster trains , but that 'll eat up any price advantage ( eg . FOC-SZN for CNY 480/US $ 80 for random dates in March ) . Ferry prices and schedules courtesy of <URL> , trains by <URL> .
<URL> you can find a map of bike-allowed street . Probably it will be longer but there is a possibility to go to Punta Sabbioni by using only the bike . Hope it can help !
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
One possibility to consider is to fly into another country and then cross over to Russia by land , if time and your visa situation allows it . For example , a flight to Helsinki , Finland may sometimes be significantly cheaper than a flight to Russia , and it 's easy enough to cross into St Petersburg from there . Consider Latvia and Estonia as well . Another idea is to use a European budget airline that flies to Russia ( e.g. fly into the UK , then easyJet flight to Moscow )
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
When you arrive with the airport express you will be in an underground station 2 floors below the IFC Mall . There will be two exits : The one on the same level to a taxi station . The other one will be an escalator leading up to the airport express check-in on ground level . Go up the escalator 2 floors . There will be the check-in counter on one side of the hall and a long window with exits and cars passing by on the other side of the hall . Go out through the doors outside and the <URL> will stop right in front of you , <URL> . The right side is blocked with cars dropping off passengers . Since the buses are coming only every 20 minutes , and since your taxi will cost less than 50 HKD , you might want to just take one on the same level when you leave the train . Depending on the amount of people on the train , you could face a 10 minute wait for a taxi also , but you will be able to judge that right when you leave the train before you go up 2 floors to the bus station .
You can take the <URL> ( Airport Limousine Bus ) direct from Haneda ( International Terminal ) to Narita ( Terminal 1 then Terminal 2 ) for 3,100 JPY . It comes fairly regularly ( roughly hourly ) and takes around 95 minutes . The earliest departure is 06:25 . Alternatively you can take the train . The best route depends on time of arrival , but your main options will be : Route A Haneda - > Shinagawa ( Keikyu Main/Airport Line Rapid Ltd. . Exp. , 13 mins ) Shinagawa - > Narita ( Narita Express , 68 mins ) Total route cost : 3,600 JPY . Route B Haneda ( through Sengakuji , Oshiage and Aoto ) - > Narita ( it 's one physical line but changes name across the journey , starting out as the Keikyu Main/Airport Line and changing to Toei Asakusa Line , then Keisei Oshiage Line and finally Keisei Narita Sky Access , 94 minutes ) Total route cost : 1,760 JPY If you want specific timings to plan your train journey and see which of the routes is better for you , check out the always-useful <URL> website . Having taken the bus I strongly recommend it - very comfortable , spacious and air-conditioned . What 's more , you can see some incredible urban views on the elevated express ways and drops you right at departures at Narita .
You could take a <URL> bus directly from <URL> for 39 $ ( or 35 $ for " Promotional Ticket - can not be changed or refunded ! " ) The trip takes 4 to 4 1/2 hours , and looks like there are 1-3 daily connections . I do n't know if this is the cheapest public transport option available ( probably not ) , but it 's much better than the ICE price , and quite convenient because it 's a direct connection .
end question
start question
Is there a guarantee that flightfox.com will be cheaper than other booking methods ?
As a former Flightfox ' expert ' , this has changed over time . For a while , if you paid and ran a contest , and they could n't beat your price , you could request a refund ( if you proved you had a lower price ) , and you 'd get your money back . Then a few months back they changed their model and shut out most of the experts , changing the remainder to ' travel consultants ' . The idea being instead of having a bunch of people throw prices at you , you 'd get one of their best people working with you to find the lowest price . Odds are , you 're going to get amazing service . When I was competing as an expert on the site - and I consider myself reasonably good at finding flight specials , I was in awe at some of the prices some people were managing to find . I 'd use the site to get other experts to beat my prices for my own travel as well . They 're seriously good . Now the <URL> specify : On Flightfox , travel consultants ( the " Experts " ) try to build you the best trip itinerary in exchange for a fee . You pay this fee for services rendered . If you are unhappy with the service , you may request a refund from your expert . Your expert holds full discretion to approve or decline refunds . So there 's no ' guarantee ' , and there 's always a chance that you 'll find the absolute cheapest fare . Nobody can promise to beat every single price . But if you 're unhappy or they really ca n't beat you , it 's in their interests to refund . In the past when I used it and they could n't beat a YVR - > SFO return flight of mine , they refunded it . I 'd probably still use them for a complex trip . They 're amazing . However I now compete on darjeelin.com ( see referral link in my profile if interested ) as Flightfox has shut a lot of us out , which is disappointing . I 've met the founders and like them and really support the site - as an ' expert ' I 'll use darjeelin , but as a customer , I 'd still use flightfox . It 's a great solution .
If your both legs are on the same ticket ( made in the same booking ) then they will definitely check in your luggage to the final destination . You will just change planes without going through immigration . If you have two separate bookings than it is not as obvious - contact the airline to double check .
No , this will not work . Buying a return ticket and only using the first leg of it will certainly work - just make sure that you do n't skip any of the legs before the one ( s ) you intend to use to avoid the ticket being canceled . However what will not work is trying to book a refundable fare class for the return , and then obtaining a refund for that leg . The reason is , as you 've guessed it may be , in the " fine print " - or specifically in the fare rules . All airlines will have something like this in their fare rules and/or Contract or Carriage ( CoC ) : Specifically that example is from American Airlines , but the others will be similar . This means that if only one of the flights on a ticket is n't refundable , then neither are any of the other flights booked on the same ticket - even if they are different fare codes that would normally allow for refunds . If you were to ask the airline to cancel the return leg then they will normally " reprice " the entire ticket , which basically means that they will calculate the price again for the whole ticket - including legs you 've already flow ! This will put you back into the original situation of being after a one-way , and as the price of that will be higher than you 've already paid , there wo n't be a refund due . It 's worth keeping in mind that whilst one-way flights will sometimes be more expensive , they often come with better conditions ( eg , allowing changes and/or refunds ) that the cheaper return flights do not . Booking a return and simply not using the return portion may make sense if you saves you money - but make sure that you 're not taking a higher risk to save a small amount of money . In this case it looks like you 're saving around # 200 so it probably is worth doing , but if you were only saving # 20 then you 'd almost certainly be better off paying a little more for the one-way and the additional flexibility it probably gives you .
Plenty of chicken products are available for sale in Norway , as evidenced by <URL> : <URL> , the price for a kilo of chicken is around 110 kroner , which is around 15 . So yes , it 's quite a lot more expensive than in most other countries . The smuggler was n't trying to bring in a prohibited product , they were trying to avoid paying the extremely high import fees .
It does not cover all the regular busses in the country but <URL> is the main operator and does operate busses you could use . Unfortunately , it 's not a part of the national train company ( ÖBB ) and the website therefore also includes trains , which is why busses do not show up in the search results for this particular journey ... rome2rio is another site that 's very nice for intermodal comparisons , and it seems that in this case the <URL> . ( You will notice that the busses suggested by rome2rio can also be found on the postbus website , but only if you look for them one-by-one ) .
If you have a specific flight in mind , with the flight number , you can use <URL> , which has pretty good global coverage for most airlines . The duration is shown on the right : actual duration for completed flights and scheduled duration for upcoming/in progress ones .
<URL> leaves from Boston and makes a couple of stops in Iceland , one of which is at Heimaey where they famously <URL> . It also stops in Greenland and Scotland . <URL> also visits Iceland . Both of those cruises only let you off the boat to explore for 8 hours at a time ( there are no overnight on-land stays ) , which I have to say means you will not really see much of Iceland . An alternative is to fly direct to Iceland from Boston , Minneapolis/St . Paul , New York JFK , Orlando Sanford , Seattle or Washington D.C with <URL>
Which running event would that be ? I looked at several event calendars for Prague , and they all list only a marathon on May 11th . In any case , I would n't be concerned ; you 're in walking distance of lots of sights , and the metro should n't be affected by such events anyway .
Short answer , you ca n't . However , you can at least make sure they have an official license , and any other accreditation which might lend some credence to their claims . Look for ones that are licensed by the <URL> , and consider <URL> , to see if anyone has mentioned them or complained about them . All you can do is research , and ask around when you get there as well . Or consider approaching the companies and ask them directly - I 'm sure you 'd not be the first , even if it is rather brazen ;)
Marrakech has a big palm tree garden that seems part of the desert itself ( well , like an oasis really ) . I do n't remember the name , but it 's really near the city center and every taxi driver knows where it is ( just ask for camel riding ) . There are a lot of camels and people that offers camel riding to tourists . Also , there are travel agencies that offers camel riding experiences ( one such is called <URL> ) .
The first thing to note is that there are in principle no situations in which you are free to choose where you should lodge your application . The rule is that you have to apply to the consulate of your main destination country serving your place of residence and , if there is no main destination , to the relevant consulate of the country through which you will enter the Schengen area . If you are planning a tour involving several countries , you could plan to stay a little longer somewhere or add a transit to target a specific country but this always involve adjusting your stated itinerary . The visa fee are defined in the visa code and thus exactly the same for all countries/consulates ( $ 60 for most pople , $ 35 for children between 6 and 12 and nationals of a handful of countries , and free for some special categories of applicants including infants and family members of EU citizens ) . Some consulates outsource some part of the process to a subcontractor ( often VFS Global , but France uses a company called TLScontact ) and they can add a processing fee on top of that . But that 's consulate-specific rather than country-specific . The documentary requirements should be more-or-less the same . The actual legal requirements ( and thus the standard an applicant has to meet and the valid reasons to refuse an application ) are also defined in the Schengen visa code and thus fully harmonized . That said , the requirements in question are pretty high-level requirements , e.g. " documents in relation to accommodation , or proof of sufficient means to cover his accommodation " which does leave quite a bit of room for interpretation . One example would be visits to friends and family : You need an official invitation but getting one involves quite a bit of hassle and the requirements do vary from one country to the next . However , it 's not easy to use these differences to your advantage as you obviously have to get the invitation from the place where your sponsor lives ... I do n't have any recent statistics at hand but those I have seen a few years ago show that there are indeed rather sizable differences in the refusal rates from one country to the next . However it 's not clear that targeting a country with a lower refusal rate can really help you . Among many other factors , consider this : There are also large differences in the origin of the applications processed by each country 's consular network . For example , Belgium processes nearly all applications for Schengen visas lodged in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( the Belgian embassy there runs something called the <URL> and handles applications on behalf of 18 different Schengen countries ) and this represents a large part of all applications processed by Belgium worldwide . There are many reasons why applications from the DRC tend to be weaker , or perhaps examined more rigorously than elsewhere and the refusal rate is indeed high , driving Belgium 's average up . But this is certainly not predictive of the odds of getting a visa from the Belgium consulate in London for a UK resident with a stable situation .
Both the <URL> and the <URL> can go faster than 160 km/h , and have done so for short distances in trial runs . <URL> . However , in operation both are capped at a maximum of 160 km/h , and typically average out much slower ( the Sydney-Melbourne XPT barely beats 80 km/h for the trip ) . As for why specifically 160 km/h , it 's a typical cut off worldwide for " <URL> " . Exceeding that is generally considered to require high-stability concrete ties for tracks ( Australia still mostly uses wood ) and no level crossings ( rural Australia has hundreds ) .
Its not a myth . Its simply a case of supply and demand and well , economics in general . If demand increases , and supply remains the same ( you ca n't build hotels quickly ) then prices will go up . They do go up . To give you a simple example of this , I am booking hotels in Amsterdam for a technical conference in November and I am not finding any available rooms , and all room rates are almost double what I paid last year . This was confusing for me so I called one of the hotels and they informed me that there are two other conferences and a concert going on during the event , which is why rooms rates are different as they only have the premium rooms left . Even if you were to discount that as something that could be avoided , almost all hotels have at least these different types of rates : The walk-in rate ( most expensive ) The corporate rate The online rate ( at their website ) The online rate ( at other sites/resellers/travel agents ) The preferred rate for loyalty card members . The rate for rooms when booked as part of a business conference . Seasonal rates ( based on travel seasons - ie , Christmas/New Years , etc. ) These are all different prices for the same room . As a general rule prices go up when : There is more demand than supply ( busy season , weekend , etc. ) The later you reserve ( last minute seats , walk-in bookings ) This applies to both airlines and hotels ; and other similar hospitality/entertainment/travel industries like amusement parks , concerts , trains , buses etc. . So not booking a weekend but booking on the weekend compared to booking during the week . If that is true it would actually be a very interesting point to consider . As a general rule it does not matter when you are booking - it matters when the actual booking is , relative to the current time . So if you were to login on Christmas Day , to do a book for March 1st , you would actually get a cheaper rate than if you were login on April 15th and do a booking for March 1st . For hotels specifically , it also matters what type of property it is . You can easily observe this by booking at business hotels ( or those that are near airports ) . These properties will have drastic price differences if you are booking on the weekend or during the week . A booking during the week ( for example , checking on Monday checkout on Wednesday ) is more expensive then checking in for the weekend - because they are busier on working days than weekends . Compare it with a resort or family-focused property and you 'll see for the same dates and the same class of room , completely different prices . Online though , there are other things you have to watch out for . There was a case some years ago from Orbitz that would change prices if you were browsing the site from Apple devices . This <URL> at USA Today highlights the details and includes evidence that Delta was doing similar tricks for the pricing search . I am sure since then practices have become more complicated and there are variable number of points that go into pricing of fares for both flights and hotels ( and then , of course when you combine the two with a package ) .
There are a few problems you can run into : If your BOM-IST flight departure is delayed or otherwise rescheduled , it is the airline responsibility to bring you to the destination by rescheduling the remaining legs . Flying on two tickets it is your responsibility ( consider change fees and possible unavailability of flights ) . If your BOM-IST flight is canceled , and you decide not to fly with them , you are eligible for full refund ( i.e. both for BOM-IST and IST-MUC segments ) . However if you buy separate tickets , you 're only eligible for refund of BOM-IST segment , unless IST-MUC is also canceled . You would be likely required to collect and recheck your bags . It may be still possible to check them to the final destination through if you 're flying the same airline and can check into both flights ( i.e. your next flight is less than 24hr away ) , but the airline does n't have to do this . Because of 3 ) above you might need to have visa/papers for your connection ; Turkish visa for US citizens , for example , is $ 20 . Because of 3 ) above if your bag is lost on the first leg , the airline will only deliver it to IST once it is found . So you 'd have to wait for your bag there . The amount of compensation you receive for a flight delay is different too , as it is based on your final destination , not connection destination . If you decide to change flights ( move them a day ahead , for example ) , you 'd have to change both tickets and pay 2x change fees , versus paying only one change fee . Finally , if your home or destination country does n't like the connecting country , you might be in trouble on arrival . For example , if you 're US citizen and flying something like Europe-Cuba-Mexico-US , and get a Cuban stamp in your passport ( no idea if they put it or not ) , you might end up doing some explanation at home . Same if you " transit " this way through Dubai , and later try to fly to Israel , you 'll get much more questioning due to UAE entry/exit stamps in your passport - which you otherwise would n't have . There are however benefits too : If you decide to skip one leg , and jump into another , this would invalidate a single ticket . However you can do this when you have two tickets , as cancellation of the first ticket does n't affect the second one . The frequent flier mileage is supposed to be calculated based on a straight line between origin and destination . Thus if you have two tickets , in theory you should rack up more frequent flier miles . In reality , however , it seems that most airlines I flew calculate them per segment and not by straight line , so I wonder if this still remains a benefit .
What criteria would you use to label people xenophobic ? And would these criteria really reflect your own experience visiting these places ? In <URL> , the criterion is the answer " strongly/somewhat disagree " to the statement " The presence of foreigners is good for the city " in the EU survey " Perception survey on quality of life in European cities " . While the question does fit with the definition of xenophobia , it does n't really reflect the experience of visiting these cities as a tourist , assuming the sample size is sufficient for a meaningful analysis ( which is most unlikely ) People tend to be a big part of the reactions they get . Some people can travel just about anywhere and enjoy a great welcome while others go to the same places and are endlessly disappointed , scammed ... Any broad generalization on the matter is more likely to cause problems than it is to help travelers . You would be better served by making a list of countries you are interested in and doing some more detailed research on those . Check out what scams are frequent . Check out if people complain of double pricing . Check out if formal segregation between locals and foreigners . Read accounts of foreigners who travel cross country by bike/motorbike as they will usually give you a good idea of how they were perceived by people they met . etc. . It will give you a far better picture of the situation than some superficial xenophobia index .
If you are interested in both United Club membership and holding a United mileage credit card , by all means go for the United Club card . But everyone is n't necessarily like you . Some people are n't interested in holding an additional credit card , or ca n't qualify for an additional credit card , or ca n't qualify for this particular card , but are still interested in United Club membership . Some people do n't want another card , but also do n't mind the higher membership fee because they pay for Club membership with miles . Some people do n't want another card , but also do n't mind the higher membership fee because they are reimbursed for membership through their employer or other organization . Some people do n't want another card , but also do n't mind the membership fee because it is discounted on account of their frequent flyer status . United frequent flyer elites already receive the non-Club benefits of the card such as a free checked baggage allowance and priority boarding , so Premiers and GS gain nothing from the card in terms of travel privileges except for Club membership . All the U.S. carriers are heavily dependent on their affiliated credit cards for revenue , so it is unsurprising that United finds the idea of gaining another cardholder more desirable than a mere hundred dollars of annual revenue . The time may come when that is no longer the case , and the annual card fee and the annual club membership fee may fall closer together in price , but the option to join the club without holding the credit card is not likely to go away . ( Note that the United Club membership provided through the card is a regular United Club membership . There is no special tier of membership just for credit card holders ; you are not entitled to any benefits beyond an ordinary Club membership . You are entitled to same number of guests as well : 2 adults , or 1 adult with any dependent children , not an unlimited number of traveling companions . )
Requesting specific criteria for your booked room is indeed a service provided professional travel agents . My employer 's corporate travel agency ( <URL> ) for instance provide a common selection of special requests as shown the in the picture below . Choosing one of these only indicates a preference , not a guarantee , since it 's highly dependent on the yield management system / occupancy at the hotel . ( There may be specific exemptions on whether it 's binding , usually for persons with physical disabilities for instance , who may need an accessible room . ) Providing this kind of choice is considerably less common with many consumer online booking tools . However , in most cases you can phone / contact the hotel following the booking and make the request . Having higher tier status on a hotel chain loyalty programme - if it belongs to one - may also help your chances of having your request fulfilled . That said , I 've mostly found that hotel checkin staff will try to ensure your request is met . Reminding them of it helps .
If you travel during summer holiday season I would say forget it . All the tours are reserved , I was there in March ( the off-off season ) and they were doing a steady business . The outer parts are not ticketed , and the other castle ( Hohenschwangau ) is less busy . It is definitely worth the trip , I would say plan your travels around the ticket date , there are not all that many other attractions in the area so those destinations can be flexible .
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
The only major advantage is price : it 's not uncommon for a third-party site to have better prices than those offered directly by the hotel . That said , major chains are increasingly offering best-price guarantees , although these usually only mean that you can claim the difference if you spot it , not that they 're actually always the cheapest option . Minor advantages include : A faster booking process if you 're a repeat customer and they already have your details on file . The infrastructure behind a site like booking.com is rock solid , meaning very reliable booking and payment processes . Little independent hotels have to cobble together their own , so things can and do go wrong , eg . filling out their 16-page booking form and then getting an error on the last page because it does n't like your credit card or something . Some chance of getting your money back if the hotel goes bankrupt or something before your stay . ( That said , any halfway decent credit card will let you dispute the charge in this case even if you book directly . ) But all that said , I still book directly through the hotel if I can . Your reservation is less likely to get lost , you may get better rooms and more perks , making changes to your booking is easier , and you 'll get points if you belong to the hotel chain 's frequent traveller program . Also , Airbnb is ( supposed to be ) for person-to-person short stay rentals , not regular hotels . For most of the properties listed there , Airbnb is the only option for booking .
end question
start question
Bus or taxi from Coonor ( or Ooty ) to Coimbatore ?
There are definitely buses between Ooty and Coimbatore , but you may have to change in Mettupalayam . They also run through Coonor . Looking at my travelog , it took about three hour from Coimbatore to Mettupalayam which is relatively flat . But the part between Ooty and Mettupalayam is much slower but really nice . Also the bus station you arrive at in Coimbatore is not in the center , and it will take a while to get from there to the train station . I think if you take an early bus in Ooty you can make it in time for your train , but taking the toy train may take too much time . If you have enough time , take the toy train the day before and then the bus back to Ooty in the afternoon . The toy train was very busy when I was there earlier this year , you had to make reservations weeks in advanced . Just double-check at the bus station in Ooty .
Rental prices are not designed for periods of more than a few days . It might be possible to negotiate a long-term price at a flexible rental business . It 's definitely possible to get a decent used bike for 50-100 EUR . There 's a risk that it could be a stolen one , but almost none of running into problems , even if it is . I 'm pretty sure that shipping a bike from Germany to Egypt and back will cost more than 100 EUR .
You can catch the <URL> ( no relation ) every 15-30 minutes all day from Manhattan to Manorville , then a taxi back to Brookhaven National Laboratory . The taxi fare may be quite a bit cheaper this way than from Ronkonkoma as the distance is shorter . It may also be faster , depending on time of day , since the bus has only one stop between Manhattan and Manorville . The bus picks up at 40th and Lexington , so you 'll have to go crosstown several blocks from Port Authority ; either take the 7/7X from Times Square/42nd St to Grand Central Terminal , or walk it .
They wanted $ 40 , but I managed to get it for $ 35 .
According to <URL> : If your baggage is damaged , lost or delayed during an easyJet flight , you must advise a member of easyJet ground handling staff at the airport of arrival immediately . In the event of loss or damage to baggage the airline 's liability is normally limited to a maximum of 1,000 <URL> ( approximately # 820 ) . Essentially , it does n't matter whether your airline is low-cost or full-service . ( If I 'm not wrong ) They have minimum obligations for carriage that they must adhere to as declared in their terms and conditions . Baggage handling falls under the purview of airlines and that 's whom you must seek compensation from . In your case , you will have to contact EasyJet but they may argue that baggage damage was not notified to them at the airport , thus allowing them to claim they were not responsible for it . If you have travel insurance of some sort , then it could cover compensations . Alternatively , check if your credit/debit card has travel insurance included .
I do n't think there is any reason why you should n't start your visit in Venice and come to Milan later on . I suppose your explanation about flights is sound and reasonable , although there are plenty of flights to Venezia Tessera as well as to Verona airport . Normally , Milano is not considered worth visiting for more than one day , although there are monuments and museums here as well . If you can spare 10-15 days to visit Northern Italy , then you should be able to have at least a couple of days in Milan ( a bit on the expensive side as far as hotels are concerned ... ) , at least 4 in Verona if you plan to visit Lake Garda as well , then the rest for Venezia , but you should n't miss Padua and the Brenta Riviera with the various Palladio villas , Treviso and perhaps Asolo or Bassano del Grappa . " Acqua alta " may be a problem , but it is not all that frequent in early November , and quite often the weather is still pleasant . Enjoy your visit , whichever direction you will travel .
In a word ( and a <URL> ) , no . As you 're probably aware , South and North Korea remain ( in theory anyway ) at a state of war and travel between the two is extremely restricted . In the past , there were organized tours from South Korea to <URL> and <URL> , but both have been indefinitely suspended since 2008 or so . Pyongyang has never been accessible to South Koreans . Japan has also banned all direct travel to North Korea for years , but the ban was lifted <URL> . However , it will be a while until anything like group tours for the general public ( as opposed to card-carrying Chongryon members etc ) start happening , and Japanese ability would most likely be required .
First of all , it 's definitely Soi ( but sounds more like ) , this is official transliteration of the . Secondary , as others mentioned , you must do a stop during your flight at Moscow - unfortunately , in Russia many flights are made with such stop . I suggest you to stop for a day in Moscow , just for another sightseeing there . Also : Flight duration from Moscow to Sochi - 2 hours Flight duration from Moscow to Khanty-Mansiysk - 3 hours , and flight by is made from other airport than you 'll land from Frankfurt ! , if you choose the UTAir . You can choose the TransAero , but it 's not as cheap as Sochi flight . And most important part : sightseeing and weather . Khanty-Mansiysk 's average temperature is -9,8 ° С , and sometimes there is cold weather , down to -40.1 ° С ( March , 1st , 1966 ) . Sochi 's average temperature is +15 ° С , with sea temperature up to +9 ° С . You can try it out - extreme , but quite fun :) There will be a snow machines for Biathlon in Sochi , but natural snow is in Khanty-Mansiysk . As for the sightseeing , in Khanty-Mansiysk is all about the World Cup - people there love skiing , and you will be bored there if you are not a fan of it . There are quite <URL> ( in Russian ) , and even less of them you 'll be interested in during cold weather . As for <URL> , you 'll find much more fun there - because it is a very popular touristic center during long time . And because of preparing for the Olympic games , there are much more easier for foreign tourist to get information about city - people started to study languages , and whole touristic situation changed in a good way . So , make your choice , but if I were you , I 'd start with Sochi ( plus 1-2 days stop in Moscow ) - for start it will be enough . But if you want some extreme - choose the Khanty-Mansiysk , it will be a journey of the year for you .
You should not have any troubles travelling directly to USA from Sweden . At most , you 'd get questions at the airport in Sweden when checking in , and you 'd have to explain ( or prove ) your current status in Sweden . The US authorities wo n't care much where are you flying from , as long as you hold a valid visa . I myself travelled on a B1/B2 visa from Sweden one month ago , and I 'm not a Swedish citizen either . There were n't any problems at all . However , I 'd bring copies of documents certifying your status in the country ( for example , letter from Migrationsverket , letter from Skatteverket with your personal number , and/or a valid Swedish ID document ) . I did n't have any of those with me , though I managed to get by only by showing a credit card issued by a Swedish bank and speaking in Swedish , but your mileage may vary -- in retrospect , I definitely should have brought supporting documents .
There are no night buses that I am aware of . Green Bus has Chiang Mai to Chiang Khong routes ( stops in Chiang Rai on the way ) , but they are daytime schedules . Most bus companies try to avoid driving the road between Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai at night , as it is a winding mountain route with less than perfect drivers ( ie post drinking drivers ) .
In short : Come to the airport early , security checks will take longer . You should expect a longer and more serious security check before your departure and after your landing , including questioning about your whereabouts and activities in Iran or Kuwait . If you just visited there , this should be it - your entrance is very highly unlikely to be refused . Predictive Profiling 101 : Why are you being checked ? Unlike some other Middle Eastern countries , Israel does not ban or punish tourists who have visited certain countries in the past . This is a security measure , based on <URL> often used by <URL> . This means that the passenger 's personal details are aggregated , and if they fit into a presumably dangerous profile , the passenger is thoroughly questioned prior to boarding . This method is based on hundreds of variables ( age , nationality , purpose of travel , ... ) , it 's arbitrary and unpredictable by nature , so nobody knows know if Iranian stamp will raise more questions than a Kuwait stamp . Further notes Do n't lie or hide details . Lying will probably get you into longer questioning , and you 're more likely to get banned . Questions might get nosy and personal . The terminals for Israeli ( and US ) flights are often remote and isolated , especially in European airports . Taking a special in-airport bus to an unmarked terminal is not unusual . Do really come early . For further reading about the roots and disputes about Predictive Profiling , you can also read about <URL> and the <URL> , which are taught in security courses in Israel . This is not a political statement , just the viewpoint of the security official . On a last personal note , I envy you a little ! Iran is supposed to be a truly beautiful country , a mixture of Asian and Middle Eastern geography . I hope I can visit it as a tourist , one day soon .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
I have called the bus companies and checked some testimonies on web and of my friends regarding the WiFi on this buses . I 'm glad to tell you that the 3 of them have the service , however it is not available for all the routes . Cruz del Sur : It has WiFi available for 80 % of the routes . It is not a fast connection but you can check email , and look at webpages ; but it would be a bad idea to use it for viewing YouTube videos and such . Ormeño : It has WiFi for their international routes . Oltursa : It has WiFi for only 50 % of destinations . Of course the WiFi service is only for the premium tickets so you will have to pay extra and speed is not that great . You have to know that 70 % of the internet users here in Peru only have 2Mb ... so it is going to be slow and possibly get disconnected during some hours in the trip .
<URL> shows the C12 route taking 57 minutes ( and 15 stops ) , traveling more directly west-east . <URL> also shows an alternative route , the S10 train to a connection with the C10 bus in Como , which takes about 2 hours . Its <URL> that shows the numerous stops and includes towns that document the 1-hour route ( such as Cima , Porlezza , Croce ) . The <URL> is in effect between 9 June to 11 September ; winter schedule begins on 12 September ( through 8 June ) . To interpret the abbreviations used on the schedule : Scol are those that run on school days ( scolastici ) , which include Saturdays . Fer6 means buses that run Monday-Saturday ( all six feriale or working days ) ; Fer5 are for buses that run Monday-Friday . Fest indicates Sunday and national holidays ( festivo ) . Gior is every day or daily ( giornaliero ) .
The purpose of your visit fits tourism ( this is the what you should tick on the application form ) . You will need to supply : Proof of funds Invitation letter from the conference . Airline reservation Hotel reservation ( in your name ) for the period of your stay . In addition to the normal requirements ( photo + application form + insurance + passport ) . Your passport should be valid for 6 months after you intend to return . You are a high risk applicant - therefore you should demonstrate significant ties to your home country before applying . There is only one short stay temporary visa ( the " Schengen visa " ) . The difference is the documentation you need to provide for the application which depends on the purpose of your trip - but the visa you get ( for short trips ) is the same .
I live in Barcelona and I have taken a taxi from the airport lots of times . Taxi system is a very regulated sector in Barcelona . Fares of official regular taxis are controlled by the IMET , the Metropolitan Taxi Institute which depends from <URL> . Specially at the airport , you wo n't find a " cheapest way " to take taxi , you will find taxi fares that are the same for all taxis . You will have to pay a supplement of 3.10 $ for catching a taxi from the airport and 1.00 $ for each piece of luggage placed in the boot . When you get to the cab , a rate called " la baixada de bandera " is applied . Then there is a fixed rate for distance covered and also a fixed rate for the time passing when the taxi is stopped : you will see how these are being charged on the taximeter located inside the cab . Note that these rates are more expensive on weekends and holidays and also from 20:00 to 8:00 than at the rest of the day . At the end of the journey , the above mentioned supplements will be added to the taximeter . Notice that a minimum fare of 20.00 $ ( including supplements ) will be always charged to you for the fact of getting a taxi at the airport . You can find official information about taxi fares from the IMET at this <URL> ( in Catalan ) . Taxi sector is so strictly regulated nowadays that I think it 's very difficult you get scammed . As you can see in the pictures of the <URL> , you will find the driver identification and the taxi license number located very visibly at the interior of the cab . Anyway , if you need to make a complaint , you can always ask for a receipt to the taxi driver . Such a receipt will contain all the relevant data you need to fill out the <URL> that you will have to send along with your receipt to the following address : Institut Metropolità del Taxi , carrer 62 núm . 18 - Zona Franca - 08040 Barcelona . You can find some more practical information about Barcelona airport taxi service at this <URL> ( however note that it 's unofficial ) .
<URL> - the route map is a pain to work with but if you choose the normal booking form , then you 'll see the list of destinations they fly to from Trondheim . Additionally , if you set SkyScanner to search for flights from Trondheim to ' United Kingdom ' for month December 2011 , you 'll find a list of airlines that operate connecting flights ( mostly via Oslo ) to London airports as well as Edinburgh . For TRD to EDI , these are : SAS , Norwegian , KLM , Lufthansa . Your mileage may vary on whether you want to a direct flight from Trondheim to London Gatwick , or rather take a connecting flight that lands at Edinburgh .
India does n't have a strong tipping culture . Still tourists are used to tip there , especially when they had a good service . And to be honest , this is a general trend in the vast majority of countries around the world . When you have received a good service , you are encouraged to tip . This is a way to show your appreciation and also to make those people life a bit better . This also encourage them to deliver good service to other tourists . 10 years ago , it was pretty different but with the explosion of tourism in a lot of countries , tipping has quickly become something that is expected and widely accepted . Now with regards to the amount ! This is a key point . You should tip between 3 % and 10 % of the overall amount . So if this is something " expensive " , you 'll usually pay around 3-5 % and if this is cheap , more around 7-10 % ( for instance 70 to 100 INR for a 1,000 INR bill ) . Then your comment is right , you should also take into consideration the salary . In India , depending on the region , the level of seniority and the grade of the restaurant/hotel , the staff is paid between 7.000 INR and 15.000 INR per month . So for instance , if someone helps you with your luggage . Let 's say that you have 2 large pieces and bring them to your home . If this takes 10 minutes , you could tip him 20-40 INR . I recently wrote a post about tipping in different countries . It is n't specific to India but <URL> .
No . USA immigration and customs is always at your first stop in the USA , except if you are departing from an airport with <URL> . Brussels is not one of those . The JFK terminals are connected by a <URL> .
Yes , you can . On March 23 , 2013 , the ten largest transit smartcards in Japan became fully ( * ) compatible , and this includes Pasmo , Suica and all three systems used in and around Fukuoka : <URL> ( JR Kyushu ) , <URL> ( Nishitetsu ) and <URL> ( Fukuoka City Subway ) . ( diagram <URL> ) ( * ) For tickets , anyway , electronic money is a little more complicated , and there 's a long tail of non-top-ten cards that are only partly compatible . See <URL> for the gruesome details .
end question
start question
Paris Gare du Nord to Gare Montparnasse , by public transport but without lots of walking ?
As Andra said , RER B ( 5stations ) + Metro ( 3Stations ) will be way faster than Ligne 4 all the way down . The thing is the interconnection Line 4 to the train can take you up to 10 minutes , moreover if you have lugages with you . But taking the line 6 from Denfert-Rochereau to Montpartnasse will save you this time , trains are at the first exit . Summary Gare Du Nord - > RER B - > Denfert Rochereau - > Line 6 - > Montparnasse Bienvenue Enjoy your trip and welcome in France :)
No . The option you mention is by far the fastest . Fly directly from Zurich to Amsterdam . Swiss has four flights per day . This takes 1h30 . Then take a <URL> from the <URL> to Eindhoven . That 's another 1h30 . There are plenty of ( direct ) trains between Schiphol and Eindhoven . Add the time in between to get luggage , go to the train etc. . And you are done . If you comply to traffic regulations , you wo n't be faster by car ( taxi or rental car ) on the Schiphol-Eindhoven leg . There are also direct flights from Brussels to Zurich . Brussels Airport is a 1h30 drive ( by car ) from Eindhoven . The train takes at least 2h45 and you have to change 2 or 3 times . Cologne and Düsseldorf are even further apart . Maastricht , Rotterdam and Antwerp do not have direct flights to Zurich . And this brings us back to Amsterdam ;-)
The carnet comes as 10 separate tickets and nothing stops you from sharing with others .
<URL> What Is Not Covered By Rome Travel Passes For buses , you can only use the Rome travel passes on the city buses . You can not use them on the Rome hop on , hop off sightseeing buses or the airport buses to either of Rome 's airports . On the trains the entire Metro system is covered and local services in the city of Rome district are also covered . The travel passes do not cover any of the trains to Fiumicino Airport , the main airport for Rome , this includes the Leonardo Express train running non-stop between Fiumicino Airport and Rome 's Termini Station . You can not use the travel passes on the trains to and from Rome 's cruise port , Civitavecchia , which is a long way outside Rome . Some more information on this from <URL> The CIS will work on the FR1 ( FM1 ) . It is the same price as the 2 zone CIRS . However , the CIS may not be valid all the way to the Airport , in which case you will need the regional pass , a 3-zone CIRS which is 7 euros more . And . . For an ' official ' confirmation The Roma Pass website has a PDF which shows that the limit to the FR1 train is two stations before the FCO station . CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM AIRPORTS ( Leonardo Express train , FR1 train , local urban services ) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE TWO CARDS . <URL>
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
It 's hard to agree with Mhche 's answer here . Unless you have a very limited number of places you want to visit and are just going to take a few trips to the larger towns or villages along the coast , I would strongly advice against using public transport . Even if the buses travel fairly regularly through the " suburbs " of Rhodes City and to some extent down the east coast , at least to Lindos and Gennadi , the time tables for the villages on the west coast and in the interior parts of the island are very sparse . From Monolithos , there is e.g. just one bus in the morning going to Rhodes City and another bus in the late afternoon going from Rhodes and back , of course only Mo-Fr . This is the case for several other villages as well , if they have a bus connection at all . At least between Rhodes City and Lindos , the main road on the east coast is not particularly close to the coast . If you want to go the beaches or see any of the spots along the coast , expect to leave the bus at the main road and walk the rest . Bus tickets are more expensive than the 3 euros mentioned by Mhche . Travelling from Rhodes City , expect to pay about 5 $ to Lindos or 10 $ to the south of the island . Taxis are also rather expensive on Rhodes . A taxi from Rhodes City to Lindos will cost about 60 $ , to the southern parts of the island expect to pay more than 100 $ . Unless ordered and agreed upon in advance , do n't expect to find available taxis " on command " in the rural parts of the island . Do n't expect the bus drivers to speak English . The traffic is not that bad on Rhodes , so alternatives to renting a car could be to rent a bike or moped . With some luck , you may get a bike for 5 $ / day and a moped for 10 $ / day . But even the coastal roads can be quite hilly , so do n't underestimate riding a bike in the warm Rhodes weather :)
Fastest <URL> to Jamaica Station ( $ 5 , ~ 15 min ) Inbound <URL> service to <URL> ( $ 6.25 , ~ 20 min ) Cheapest <URL> to Howard Beach Station ( $ 5 , ~ 15 min ) <URL> ( NYC Subway ) to Hoyt-Schermerhorn Station ( $ 2.25 , ~ 30 min ) Well , that 's not entirely true . The truly cheapest options are to take the B15 bus and transfer to another bus somewhere in east Brooklyn , or to take the Q10 bus to Lefferts Blvd-Ozone Park Station and take the A Train from there to Hoy-Schermerhorn . Either ride would be $ 2.25 for the whole trip with a MetroCard . These are a much , much longer routes ( up to two hours ) through some very , very boring areas , and I would not advise a visitor , who has limited time , to bother with them . If you want to play with some options yourself , try the <URL> . I 'm not familiar with the MTA pass options , but you can save money by buying multi-trip MetroCards . MTA has a handy <URL> based on the number of rides .
With the help of the very handy <URL> , it turns out it can be done just fine ! Currently , there are no trains serving the Sunshine Coast ( though a <URL> ) . Instead , you need to take a <URL> from Roma Street Station or Central Station , and then change at somewhere like Woombye for the bus to the coast . The train takes about 2 hours from Brisbane , then it 's about another 45 minutes on the bus to Mooloolaba . There 's roughly one train an hour , and the last southbound train leaves Nambour just after 8pm on a weekday . So , it is possible to leave Brisbane in the morning , spend the afternoon on the Sunshine Coast , then head back in the evening , all by public transport . Oh , and just to note , sometimes off-peak the " train " between Nambour and Caboolture is actually a <URL> due to a lack of track capacity , which is a little bit slower .
You could take a <URL> bus directly from <URL> for 39 $ ( or 35 $ for " Promotional Ticket - can not be changed or refunded ! " ) The trip takes 4 to 4 1/2 hours , and looks like there are 1-3 daily connections . I do n't know if this is the cheapest public transport option available ( probably not ) , but it 's much better than the ICE price , and quite convenient because it 's a direct connection .
There are two bus routes than run on Hewletts Rd which is pretty close to the airport : <URL> and <URL> . For routes , fares and timetables follow the links . Downtown and the beach are not that far from the airport , so unless you have lots of luggage you could also just walk .
This Havataş bus appears to be new ( it 's certainly new to me ) , so I ca n't comment on their service . Istanbul 's public transit does not run regularly at night but the buses to Atatürk Airport are fortunately one of the exceptions . If you use the clunky ( in terms of interface and translation ) İETT <URL> website , you 'll find that there is a public transit option involving a change of bus that will get you to Yenikapı on time : You can only search on exact strings with correct accents so " Ataturk " and " Yenikapi " wo n't give you any results . The trip as quoted by the website will cost you four bus tickets which you 'll have to find , unless the bus drivers accepts cash ( technically they do n't sell tickets on the bus , but most drivers will actually do so by carrying electronic tickets which they sell privately ) . You might want to look into whether the 03:30 96T from does n't just continue through directly to as I expect it does , or if the 96T from at 05:36 did n't start at the airport . If nothing else , you 'll save yourself 2 bus tickets and an hour and a half sitting outside a mosque ( cami = mosque ) at night . Whatever you do make sure you have a backup plan because you ca n't trust the İETT website ! Keep an eye out for the Havataş bus since it 'll leave from the same place as the city buses ( but do n't get on the similarly-named Havaş bus ! ) . You should also be ready to abandon the whole public transit idea for a taxi at if you start running into problems . It 's not actually that far , so it wo n't run up too much of a fare .
The vast majority of public baths are separated by gender , so although mixed baths still exist , you 're unlikely to find one by chance . No swimsuit ( or anything else ) is normally allowed , as the Japanese consider that it would spoil the water ( not even your hair may touch the water , in particular ) . Again , some special places may allow swimsuits for some reason or other , but you 'd have to specifically look for them . Other than that , the etiquette is pretty much the same as anywhere else in Japan : be discreet . No running , no shouting , etc. . Just mimic the people around you and you will be fine . Edited to add : Maybe this bears emphasis : there is no special rule for foreign women ( or men ) . Even though there is the usual tolerance for some amount of " un-Japanese " behaviour , it does n't go so far as to allow you to wear your swimsuit . You can consider it akin to wearing shoes inside houses or shrines/temples .
There is a map which shows all destinations which can be reached from a city at <URL> .
Possible , yes . Feasible , only barely . Yarra Valley is fundamentally car country and not having your own wheels handicaps you pretty badly ; you can use the buses to get to the towns , but the whole point of visiting Yarra ( for most visitors , anyway ) is to tour the wineries , most of which are nowhere near a bus stop . There is , however , one good way to both use public transport and get your own wheels : rent a bike ! The fabulous <URL> starts from train terminus Lilydale , where you can rent a bike , and continues for 39 kilometers across the valley to Warburton , passing lots of wineries along the way , some directly off the trail , most a short detour away . Since it 's a former train line , it 's completely separated from road traffic , and it 's nice , easy ride since the hills were leveled out for the trains . And there are many B&amp;B s etc if you want to stay overnight .
During the night , no buses operate away from the city . The cable car does not operate at night ( except during summer ) . Bus 100 leaves for Setermoen at 21:00 ( arriving 23:25 ) , and you could get off at a dark spot , but a bus back wo n't depart before the morning , and you 'll be very cold . The last public transportation arriving to Tromsø is the southbound <URL> from Skjervøy . On Tuesday or Thursday , you can take <URL> to Skjervøy , 16:00 -- 18:15 , or on Sunday 14:45 -- 16:55 . Skjervøy is a small village and you could walk along the road until it 's sufficiently dark , although 17:00 - ish is a bit early for aurora-watching . Take Hurtigruten back to Tromsø at 19:45 , arriving 23:45 . On the Hurtigruten are good viewing conditions for the northern lights , as its mostly catered for tourists ( from speedboat 3 viewing conditions are poor , it 's a fast boat and going on-deck is not permitted , in fact you may have to fasten your seatbelts ! ) . Note that Hurtigruten has the reputation to be expensive , but it 's not too bad if you neither eat nor sleep on the boat ( not more expensive than bus or regular boats ) . Another , more outdoorsy alternative is to take a tent and spend the night somewhere outside . For example , I can recommend taking speedboat 3 to Arnøyhamn and walk for 20 minutes or so into the valley heading north from the fjord . If you do so on Monday or Wednesday , you can head back already the next morning , otherwise you 're in for a longer stay ( <URL> ) . I was there last September , it 's a very pretty place . You could combine it with some skiing if that 's your thing , but bring some warm clothes . In general , public transportation timetables ( except for Hurtigruten ! ) can be found at <URL> .
If you read French / have google translate handy , you can <URL> . It even includes a photo ! The key bit is : Localisation Station de taxis sur le parvis de la gare - > Cour des taxis Rue de Dunkerque The taxi rank is located near the Eurostar platforms , at the South West corner of the station , by Rue de Dunkerque . As you come off a Eurostar , turn right when you exit the platform into the main area , and walk out of the exit straight ahead of you . The taxi rank is right there . You may have to queue , especially if you 're towards the back of a Eurostar , but you do n't normally need to book Otherwise , outside of the very busiest times , you 'll find taxis outside the main station entrance on Place Napoléon III / Rue de Dunkerque .
While the answer from a Parisian is probably ' all over ' or ' my local patisserie ' , for those among us who are n't locals , <URL> ( 72 Rue Bonaparte , 75006 Paris , France ) is probably a good place to start . However , they tend to use it as part of other desserts , like their <URL> : Dacquoise biscuit with crunchy hazelnuts , hazelnut crisp , thin wafers of milk chocolate , milk chocolate ganache and milk chocolate chantilly . There 's a website , Parispatiserries , which <URL> : And that Dacquoise itself was really the highlight for me . Not only was the internal texture of it moist and slightly spongy , but it had a beautiful sweetness and surface texture that Mr. Tongue found thoroughly amusing . As an alternative , though , if you wish to focus on it just as a dessert , <URL> ( 25 , rue Jussieu , Paris , France ( Panthéon ) ) also serves it . <URL> and ranks it # 245 of 13,636 Restaurants in Paris .
This website : <URL> has information on most of the strikes . With a little bit of google translate , you can search by tag for the trains or other types of transport . And as the commenter below pointed out , there is even an app . If you are worried about the trains in Paris , for example , search by " RATP " , " SNCF " , or " Paris " . For the cross-country train system , type " TGV " . In my experience , Uber is alive and well during a strike , even in the suburbs .
The <URL> mentions a shower facility in the main line area at the basement level , for 6EUR . I think this is the McClean facility that is mentioned in <URL> <URL> <URL> around the web . The <URL> does n't mention showers , even in the first class lounge . There are <URL> ( " bain-douche " ) -- the nearest being Les Amiraux ( Mo Simplon ) and Meaux ( Mo Colonel Fabien ) , but you wo n't have enough time to go there and back .
As <URL> managed to find , there 's information on public transport on the <URL> ( click the British flag in the top bar if it comes up in Dutch ) . It 's actually even easier than the website makes out ! In the baggage hall , there 's a sign up explaining about the two bus options , and with directions to the bus stops . When you exit the terminal , turn left and walk for an epic 20-30 meters , and you 'll reach the bus stops . There 's one stop for the # 50 , one for the # 33 , both well signed . If you have an <URL> , you can use that for the journey . Otherwise , $ 3 in cash paid onboard gets your a single ticket valid for 1 hour . The <URL> runs direct to Rotterdam Central Station , taking about 25-30 minutes . For the west of the city centre or around the station , that 's probably the best bet . Otherwise , the <URL> bus shuttles you out to the Meijersplein metro station , from which it 's easy to take the metro north to The Hague ( Den Haag ) , or south into the city centre . You can use a journey planner like the <URL> or <URL> to work out which 'll be the best for you . Both buses are pretty frequent , every 10-20 minutes depending on the time of day , and you can be at the bus stop in well under 10 minutes from wheels down if you 're travelling only with hand luggage only Depending on how many journeys you plan to take , it might or might not be worth getting an OV-chipkaart . It 's currently <URL> , which reduces the single ticket to the city centre to $ 1.66 , so you 'll need to make a few journeys to make it worthwhile . If it 's open , you can buy one from the <URL> , which is between the arrivals and departure areas ( turn right outside customs , and it 's on your left next to the currency exchange office ) . However , Ako seems to have much shorter opening hours than many other places in the airport , so take care if arriving very early or late in the day ! Otherwise , the people at the information desk just after you exit customs are very helpful , ask them for advice if you need it !
end question
start question
Are there any trans-Pacific budget airlines ?
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
It 's not hard to identify flights which may fly over the Grand Canyon -- but finding out which ones definitely will , and whether or not you will have a view if you take one , are a different story . With some trial and error , you can find flights that pass over the area on any of the websites that offer flight tracking , like <URL> . Grand Canyon National Park is labeled on the " Aviation Sectional " map view , and its contours are visible on that view as well as the " Earth View . " Since FlightAware and similar services show the actual reported flight paths of aircraft , they are more reliable for discovery than , for example , tools like the <URL> , which rely on purely mathematical calculations . The <URL> shows aircraft currently reports in an area , though this will include many non-commercial flights . As there is a good amount of traffic through this area headed to and from Southern California or Phoenix , you can try plugging in city pairs like MSP-LAX , SLC-PHX , or SEA-TUS in the " <URL> " for some ideas . There is a great deal of variation in actual flight paths , however . Flight plans take into account the winds and the weather , and flights are subject to rerouting by the air traffic control system . Consider that on 25 September 2014 , <URL> passed straight over the eastern Grand Canyon , but today , <URL> flies well to the northwest , bypassing it entirely . Even if you had been on the 25 September flight , you might not have had much of a view . There could have been clouds ; or the plane might have been turning , banking your side of the plane towards the sky ; or you may have passed at an angle that showed only a vague gap on the horizon , and not any view into the canyon itself . But most importantly , of course , you 'd have been flying through the area after sunset . While approaches to airports are somewhat more predictable -- airports have certain prevailing wind patterns and certain preferred runways -- the path an aircraft will take over such a large area is much less certain . If you 're really excited about the idea of flying over the Grand Canyon , I suggest you look into booking an <URL> . Otherwise , enjoy the flight as best you can , and think of any Grand Canyon sightings as a nice bonus .
As far as I know there is no such website or app that allows to book last-minute cheap flights . So you have to use any of the well-known services . In particular , the flight trip between Barcelona and Madrid ( or viceversa ) is known as " puente aereo " ( literally " aerial bridge " ) and in general the cheapest company that operates this route is <URL> ( 13 flights per day ) . Prices starts from 50-70 $ but it depends on the schedule . Also the high-speed train is a good option and the bus is the cheapest option .
Yes . Emirates offers nonstop flights from Dubai ( which is on the continent of Asia ) to both Rio de Janeiro ( GIG ) and S & atilde ; o Paulo ( GRU ) . Qatar Airways has nonstop service from Doha to S & atilde ; o Paulo . Near-misses : Etihad has <URL> that it will fly from Abu Dhabi to S & atilde ; o Paulo starting in June 2013 . Turkish Airlines flies from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Istanbul , whose airport is in Europe but is only 16 km from the Asia side of the Bosporus . These appear to be the only nonstop Asia flights . <URL> shows flights from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Seoul ( Korean Air ) and Singapore ( Singapore Airlines ) , but they have stops in Los Angeles and Barcelona respectively .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
I was flying from Singapore to New Zealand ( 11 hours ) . Jetstar will not feed you without additional charge . This is company policy . They wo n't even bring you tea or coffee without charging . In addition , economy class is creepily cold . Bring some warm clothes . In business class meals included in cost of flight ticked . In economy class you must <URL> it .
According to the website <URL> there are no direct buses between Edinbugh Airport - Dundee and vice-versa . Example : 16/5/2013 Depart Edinburgh Airport approximately 9.00 am gives you three options . if you choose the 9.30 am this will be your route , arriving at Dundee Bus Station at 11.32 am If you then depart Dundee on 18/5/2013 at approximately 4.00 pm you are given the following options : If you use the 3.40 pm departure your route will be as following arriving at Edinburgh Aiport at around 5.24 pm Obviously this is an example , as I do n't have the specifics of your journey , but no there are no direct buses for your specified route .
You 're very unlikely to get them rejected if you go through an agency , as they 'll make sure you have all the right information before they submit it to the various government departments . I use <URL> in 2008 to get a tourist visa , and this year for a 3 month double entry business visa , and both times they were fantastic . Both Mongolia and China you can apply for on the road , at embassies or consulates , or just go directly to the websites and fill in the forms and take them to the embassies in London . They 're fairly straightforward , it 's only Russia that is tricky . China I even got at the border last time I went , although I would n't rely on that . One more point - booking the train tickets from outside is FAR more expensive than booking in the countries themselves . I 've just arrived in Volgograd after 34 hours from St Petersburg , and I booked that with 4 hours to go , so there 's really no problem getting tickets in either Kupe or Platzkart classes . Just a thought , it 'll save you a lot if you 're able to be flexible , unless you 're able to get a massive discount by buying the whole lot . It 's tricky to use , but <URL> has the local prices and availability for trains , if you 'd like to have a look and compare . City names must be entered in Cyrillic , but Google Translate does that quite easily for you . Good luck , it 's a fantastic experience .
Officially it varies - the UN does n't recognise Kosovo , but several others do . The big problem for you , as you observed - is Serbia , which considers it to be another province , and indeed administers five of the municipalities . The best warning I can find seems to come from Wikitravel : Visa Restrictions : Serbia officially states that it will block passports containing stamps or visas from Kosovo . However , in practice , immigration officers would usually just cancel the Kosovan stamps and replace them with Serbian ones . If you are just visiting the region , visit Serbia first . You will not be given a Serbian exit stamp if you enter Kosovo from Serbia . If you are living in or intend to travel frequently to Serbia , you should get matching pairs of entry and exit stamps ; this would mean backtracking and leaving through Serbia via a regular border crossing point . If you travel a lot in the region , your passport will be crowded with stamps anyway and border guards may not be able to find the matching stamps , and normally let you pass . Just avoid mentioning Kosovo . You can ask Kosovar authorities not to stamp your passport at the border . So unless you obsess with stamps ( which I can empathise with ) , the simplest solution would be to ask them not to stamp the passport , much like many travellers do with Israel .
According to the InterWebs there are only two Korean restaurants in Romania , both in Bucharest ( <URL> and <URL> ) , however where-ever there is a good number of Korean tourists or workers , there is usually also a Korean restaurant . Looking at the <URL> of Daewoo Mangalia Heavy Industries . all the managers listed there have Romanian names , the president and CEO is Korean , but it seems he is based in Korea . So we can assume there are not many Koreans working at the site , and therefore there is no place to get Korean food . There are a few Chinese places up the coast in Constanta .
There is really no ' trick ' to this type of travel . If you want to book this as a single itinerary then the only ' trick ' is to go to as many booking sites ( brokers and airlines ) as you can manage and do price comparisons . It helps to have some flexibility in the dates . If you do n't mind booking multiple tickets , probably the best deal on this trip will be to buy two round trip tickets . First A - > B - > A and then , separately , B - > C - > B with the latter ticket being within the time you spend in city B . The main issue with this is that these are independent tickets . If flight A - > B is delayed , causing you to miss B - > C then you are responsible for buying a new B - > C ticket . Since you plan on staying in B before proceeding to C , this will only be a problem on your return journey where a delay in C - > B can cause you to miss B - > A. Ideally , you should split your stay in B to ensure against this . At minimum ensure that you have 3 + hours stopover on the way back ( more if the flight B - > A is an expensive one ) . Lastly , it is worth pricing individual flights from A - > B , B - > C and C - > A. Typically , you wont save any money over two round trip tickets , but sometimes it may wind up only costing a little bit more and you get a simpler leg C - > A . This will vary depending on what cities A , B and C are and how they relate to each other . Also if an airline has its hub in A and offers flight to both B and C ( but has no flights between B and C ) they may sell you a return ticket with the legs A - > B and C - > A . This all depends on what cites A , B and C stand for . I did a trip like this recently where A was Reykjavik , B Washington D.C. and C San Francisco . It wound up being simplest to book A - > B and C - > A ( via Seattle actually ) as a return ticket with one airline and then B - > C as a separate one-way ticket with another airline . Doing it this way was actually a bit cheaper ( although only a bit ) but the flight home via Seattle was much shorter then to go back home via D.C.
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
Yes , the situation has greatly changed since 2001 :) Today you can get into Saint Petersburg in many ways by ferry : By St. Peterline company ferries : by <URL> Monday , Thursday , Saturday at 19:00 from Helsinki ( you 'll be at St-Petersburg at 09:30 AM next day ) by <URL> ( sorry , only link in Russian are available ) Wednesday , 09:00 AM from Stockholm without going through Tallinn 's port ( you 'll be at St. Petersburg at 11:30 AM next day ) Saturday , 19:00 from Stockholm with visiting the Tallinn Sunday , 18:00 from Tallinn ( you 'll be at St.Petersburg at 8:00 AM next day ) By AS Tallink Grupp company ferries ( with changes ) : From <URL> you can go to Stockholm , after that use first variant From <URL> you can go to Helsinki , after that use the first variant There is also <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ferries , if the schedule of two first variants is not applicable , but you 'll also need changes . I found the <URL> company , and they are serving many interesting routes in Baltic sea : You can get to Helsinki from <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , and after that use the first variant . You can directly get <URL> from Lübeck or Sassnitz in Germany , or from Ventspils in Latvia : Wednesday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Sassnitz at 05:00 AM at Thursday , departure at 07:15 AM , at Ventspils at Friday 00:00 AM / 04:00 AM , and finally at Saint-Petersburg at Saturday , 08:00 AM ) Saturday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Ventspils ( no stopover in Sassnitz ) at Monday 22:00 AM / 00:00 AM , and at Saint-Petersburg at Tuesday , 08:00 AM ) Update : I strongly recommend minimizing travel time on Russian ships , mainly because of their service level . Ferries are old German ships , and servicemen are not as positive as on Finnish lines . Please do not think this relates to Saint Petersburg where service has highly improved in the last 10 years . Update 2 : Added information about another ferry from Germany via Latvia by Finnlines .
As we pointed out in some comments , there really are tons out there . It being mostly a Catholic ( historically ) and Spanish-Portuguese continent , a lot of the festivals tend to be related to dates at similar times , as well as historical dates ( independence days and the like ) . For this , I 'd recommend a site like <URL> - which lists around 70 well-known festivals . Then they have a sorting tool on the right which will let you sort by country , month and the like . Unfortunately you 're a bit late for Carnaval and a bit early for <URL> , but there are plenty others in that list in South America in the months you mention !
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
<URL> If you select Terminal 2 International and click on each one of the shops listed , you 'll see that a few of them are found before security . These are : Jaya He Museum Store Jaya He Museum Store offers exquisite art , craft and design based collectibles made by renowned and upcoming artists of India . Pick exquisite art and craft forms in contemporary styles inspired by the Jaya He GVK New Museum at T2 . The Museum store also feature an exhibition outlet selling real time works of celebrated artists in the original form as well as product adaptations . Location : Departures , Level 4 Kama Ayurveda Browse through Kama Ayurveda 's treatment based and Internationally acclaimed holistic solutions for the skin , hair and body made with pure , natural and organic ingredients . Location : Terminal 2 , Level 3 , South-west pier , International Departures Xpress Xpress is a one-stop airport shop for a wide assortment of books &amp; magazines , choicest Indian snacks , beverages , gift items , toys and daily essentials . Stopover to pick up a few essentials before you board . Location : Level 4 , International Departures , Before Security Check Level 2 , International to Domestic Transfer Area Level 3 , International Departures , After Security Check , South West Pier I 'm not sure what means , but there might even be a pharmacy available at Terminal 2 : Apollo Pharmacy Forgot first aid for the long trip ? Headache ? Tummy trouble ? Head to the Apollo Pharmacy for all your medical needs . Location : Departures - Opposite Security Check Area - 1 I 'll let you search for available shops in the remaining terminals .
I found <URL> was quite useful for finding different tours from non main stream companies as well as all the regulars . You can choose tours that go through a specific country or ones based in just the country you select . There are also plenty of options to weed out those that are n't suitable , such as age , duration , price , trip type , group size , dates and operators .
My initial thought was along the lines of ' but Maori are just part of the community ' - but while that 's true , there are still some options that are actually pretty awesome . And to time with the Rugby World Cup , <URL> - maraes being traditional community ancestral house or meeting venue . There are some good options out there , and I 'll list a couple of them now : <URL> - two marae on site , where you get two nights stay ( at least ) , cultural experiences , guided tours of the valley and surrounding forest , and an opportunity to see some of their arts and culture . <URL> - probably touristy , but the contents look like you really get the complete experience . From the initial Hongi ( nose touch ) , you 'll learn some language , go to a great marae , sleep over in a traditional meeting house ( optional , you can stay elsewhere for extra , but why would you ! ) , great Maori food - and importantly , you 'll share in making a Hangi - the traditional earth oven meal ( has to be seen and tasted to appreciate ! ) , learn about the Haka and try some of the traditional arts - weaving , carving , as well as learn about the history and culture . If I were a tourist in NZ , the latter one really would cover everything , although as a warning - like so many things in this vein , it 's probably a little touristy . Of course , the other option is to try couchsurfing and see if you can find a homestay on that ! However it 'd be more likely to be modern rather than traditional culture , of course .
It does not appear that any US passenger airlines currently operate flights within the EU . I assumed that if any such flight existed , it would be with one of the big four legacy airlines ( AA , UA , US , DL ) and at least one end would be at a major hub . I checked the Wikipedia pages for LHR , CDG , FRA and AMS , and none of them show flights on those carriers to other EU airports . However , based on those same Wikipedia pages , it does appear that the US cargo airlines FedEx Express and UPS Airlines operate many flights within the EU .
end question
start question
How easy is it to find a temporary job in Brisbane as a foreign university student ?
Do n't worry . Finding temporary unskilled jobs in Australia is easy , the economy is booming and Australians do n't want to do them so hostels , cafes , restaurants , ski resorts , farms etc rely quite heavily on cheap , seasonal backpacker/working holiday labor . As Mark says , the easiest thing is to simply ask around at your hostel after arrival , but also take a look at <URL> to get an idea of the type of jobs and wages on offer .
Some friends and I did some searching , asking at cycling shops , etc , and could not find anyone who rents bicycles . So I followed @Berhard 's advice and bought a used one for R$ 160 ( ~ US$ 72 ) and will either sell or give it away when I leave .
Brisbane seems a bit more enlightened on the free wifi front - the council <URL> The <URL> includes a map of the parks with wifi , and where in the park you can find the hotspot ( if the whole park / square is n't covered ) . Not sure about cafes / shopping centres etc , but if you can go and sit under a tree in the city centre and get online , it does n't matter so much !
With the help of the very handy <URL> , it turns out it can be done just fine ! Currently , there are no trains serving the Sunshine Coast ( though a <URL> ) . Instead , you need to take a <URL> from Roma Street Station or Central Station , and then change at somewhere like Woombye for the bus to the coast . The train takes about 2 hours from Brisbane , then it 's about another 45 minutes on the bus to Mooloolaba . There 's roughly one train an hour , and the last southbound train leaves Nambour just after 8pm on a weekday . So , it is possible to leave Brisbane in the morning , spend the afternoon on the Sunshine Coast , then head back in the evening , all by public transport . Oh , and just to note , sometimes off-peak the " train " between Nambour and Caboolture is actually a <URL> due to a lack of track capacity , which is a little bit slower .
If you ca n't find out anything on-line , just take some time when you get to Tokyo . Find the addresses of some schools and actually go there and hang around outside , then ask some of the students for their opinions as they come out for a break . I did this when I learned Spanish in Antigua ( Guatemala ) which is full of Spanish schools .
In Wikipedia there is a <URL> about the relations between Croatia and Serbia For the first time in history , Serbia as an independent country will be represented by its national team against the Croatian team on March 22 , 2013 in qualification group A of the 2014 FIFA World Cup . For the safety of the lives of those attending the next two matches in 2013 , the football federations of Serbia and Croatia will cooperate to ban foreign guests from coming to the stadiums at which the two games will take place . So I think it 's not possible to attend this game . And even if 's allowed , it 's not a good idea . There will be a lot of police , but it will be still dangerous on and around the stadium
The US and Canada are two different countries , and as such , has different providers for internet , cellphones and data connections . If you have a sim card from one and travel to the other , it 'll cost you roaming charges . It 's easy enough to acquire SIM cards - you go to a shop and buy one over the counter . I found it tricky at first in Canada , but I feel that 's because I dealt with an unhelpful Rogers staff member . We have a question on that , fortunately . . As such , you 'll want to take a look at the following questions for further information : <URL> and <URL> It of course depends on how much you 're going to use them . I 'm in Vancouver with a prepay sim , and when I go to Seattle I just use my Canadian sim - it 's easier , and for the few texts I might send , it 's easy to keep the same number , and use the wifi in coffee shops everywhere there for data .
Right , with a bit of research , I 've put the following together . Modern Japanese mobile phones ( 携帯電話 keitai denwa or just keitai ) tend to operate on unique cellular standards not always compatible with the rest of the world . For instance , most Japanese 2G mobile phones operate on the Personal Digital Cellular ( PDC ) standard , which was developed and is used exclusively in Japan . In a nutshell : A lot of 2G phones ( GSM , etc ) from the rest of the world do not work in Japan . Even Quad-band GSM phones are useless . As AU switches its CDMA network to " new " 800MHz ( used in the rest of the world ) , foreign CDMA phones will be able to be used in Japan for roaming purposes . However , the switchover is still in progress , so only use this if staying in Tokyo or Osaka . 3G phones using the UMTS/WCDMA2100 standard and equipped with a 3G SIM card will most likely work . If your phone is up to spec , double-check with your carrier if they have a roaming agreement with either SoftBank or NTT DoCoMo . Coverage is generally excellent , unless you are heading to some remote mountainous areas . If you have no 3G phone but still have a 3G-compatible SIM card , you can rent a 3G phone in Japan and slot in your card , allowing you to keep your home phone number in Japan . Carrier restrictions may apply : for instance , O2-UK ( operating in Japan via NTT DoCoMo ) requires you to dial 111 # , wait for a callback ; then , dial the actual number you wish to connect . Be sure to double-check with your network provider before departing . GSM-only SIMs are issued by providers that do n't have their own 3G network . If your home operator have no 3G network , or if you got your phone before their 3G network was introduced , this may apply to you . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . USIM cards are issued by providers that have a 3G network or plan to introduce one . Any European who got their SIM card after 2003 has one of these . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . Data roaming works as well ( subject to the above restrictions ) , allowing you to use wireless internet on your phone ( although it can be expensive ! ) . Google Maps on your phone can be invaluable ( although note that tower positioning does not work ) . Short visits For a short visit , your cheapest option for mobile access is to rent a phone . A number of companies provide this service . Rental rates and call charges vary , the best one can depend on how long you are renting and how much you will call . Beware of " free " rental as there is a catch : usually , there are very high call charges . Incoming calls are free in Japan . Mobal Communications Inc. . Free rental ( meaning there is no expense unless you actually call someone ) . ¥ 240/min domestic and international . Very expensive ( around $ 3 ) - have people call you instead , since incoming calls are free . Be careful not to lose the phone or the charger as the company charges horrendous amounts . Rentafone Japan ¥ 3,900 up to one week , then ¥ 300/day . Shipping included . ¥ 35/min ~ domestic . USA ¥ 45/min . ¥ 300 for unlimited emailing . You can also use your SIM in the phones . Offers customers a choice of phones . Japan Mobile Rental ¥ 1,200 per day for unlimited broadband internet Connect up to 5 devices Install Skype on your PC or phone and take advantage of cheap international calling rates Use in virtually any place in Japan Pick-up at our Narita or Kansai Airport counters , or at your hotel . SoftBank Global Rental ¥ 250/day ; SIM card : ¥ 105/day . * ¥ 105/min domestic . USA ¥ 105/min . Incoming calls are free . iPhone SIM Rental ( 3GS/4 ) is available . ¥ 1,500 per day for iPhone unlimited data communications . MyJapanPhone " Free rental " for the first week , but you must pay for shipping at rather high rates working out at at least $ 30 . After that $ 2/day . $ 0.70 / min domestic . USA $ 0.90 / min . Incoming calls are free . Extra $ 10 use email . Service tax of 15 % added to final bill . Run from the US by the people who run Panda Phone ( Chinese phone rental ) . Telecom Square ¥ 525/day . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 800-1800 if you want the phone delivered . . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 100/min ( daytime ) . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . go mobile ¥ 2,995 / week with 15 free minutes , plus ¥ 1,000 for shipping . ¥ 85/min domestic . International ¥ 100/min . Incoming calls are free . Final credit card charge can be up to 2 months after return . Inphonix ¥ 315/day ( rental fee waived for ANA passengers ) . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 1,575 if you want the phone delivered . ¥ 120/min domestic . International ¥ 150/min . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . Air 's ¥ 200/day ¥ 100/min domestic ( NO international calls ) or ¥ 160/min omestic and international . Incoming calls are free . Mobile Phone Japan ¥ 2,900 up to one week / ¥ 5,600 up to two weeks . Shipping included . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 78/min . Prepaid phones - you need to buy a top-up car
I was a night auditor ( see <URL> ) at two different hotels on the Central Coast of California ( specifically , San Luis Obispo and Pismo Beach ) in the mid-1990s . While some things ( mostly the technology ) has changed , most things are about the same . It would really help to know where you will be traveling , because California is such a diverse and huge place ( larger than many states and even entire countries ! ) . Weeks 30-32 are July 22-August 11 , which is the middle of summer . That 's better for finding a room than than June . From late May through mid-June , you have a lot of formal dances and graduations . If those events hit around the same time in an area , you may find that all the rooms have sold out in the entire region . For example , the graduation weekend for Cal Poly SLO ( a top university ) will result in sold-out rooms from Paso Robles ( nearly the northern border of SLO County ) through Santa Barbara ( middle of the next county south ) , which means you might have to drive well over an hour to find a hotel room if you did not plan ahead . I know this , because I had to literally call every hotel and motel I could think of to try to find a family a room that weekend . I finally did , but it was in Ventura ( 1.5 hours south ) . Night auditors are great resources . Especially on weekends , we keep track of ( or at least generally know ) which hotels have vacancy . If you arrive late , ask the person at the desk for recommendations . You might pay more ( usually the larger , more expensive hotels have vacancies when the smaller ones sell out ) . I also found that some B&amp;B s ( bed and breakfast ) had rooms left when the mainstream hotels were full . I sometimes had guests call me back to thank me for " upgrading " their vacation to a B&amp;B ( which they would not have thought of on their own ) . Bear in mind that you will be in about the warmest ( hottest ) part of the year , especially if you are visiting Southern California or the Central Valley . Temperatures may reach 100F ( 30C ) or higher ( especially in early August ) . The deserts will climb even higher , but drop to chilly temperatures at night . However , along the coast you will likely experience cool , foggy days in the 60-68F range . In the Sierra Nevada mountains , days may be quite warm ( 80F ) , nights cold ( 40F ) , with sudden thunderstorms or even rain . That also is fire season , so you may find areas you want to visit closed or undesirable due fires or heavy smoke in the air . The countryside will probably be brown and dry looking -- quite different from the lush green fields that you would see now ( in mid-March ) . Be sure to pack for a variety of weather conditions . Most hotels have laundry facilities on-site ( coin operated washers and dryers mostly , with upscale establishments offering dry cleaning ) , so you can get by with fewer clothes , but more variety . Layer your clothes . Bring tee-shirts , khaki pants ( like Dockers ) , a polo shirt or blouse , a nylon windbreaker , and , depending on where you travel , shorts , a long-sleeve dressier shirt , and maybe a medium-weight jacket . If you plan to visit high-end restaurants or night clubs , or if you will be visiting the San Francisco Bay Area , you might want to bring a complete set of dress clothing . Shoes can range from sandals/flip-flops , to sneakers or running shoes with good traction ( for the beach or hiking ) , to casual dress ( for evenings and dressier places ) . In the middle of summer , you probably do not HAVE to make reservations except on the weekends or if you plan to stay near the ocean , or a major attraction ( Disneyland , Napa , San Francisco , Sea World , etc. ) , or an airport . If you are visiting a small town , and there are limited hotels , I 'd also recommend a reservation . Weekdays ( Sunday night through Thursday night ) usually have lower occupancy rates , but , again , local events or conditions could quickly sell out all the available rooms . Most hotels will provide you ( if you ask ) a complimentary 6pm ( or 4pm if they are stingy ) hold for no charge , no credit card required . They know that they can almost certainly let a room between 6 and midnight , even if you do not show up . Be careful about giving out your credit card , because they WILL charge you for one night if you do n't show and do n't cancel by the required time . Note that a reservation guaranteed with a credit card is not a 100 % guarantee that you will have a room waiting for you . Many hotels offer their front desk staff incentives to fully occupy the hotel on weekends . That means a person staying in every room , even if there are no-shows ! It comes down to the front desk staff making guesses on how likely someone is going to show up or not . If you are going to be late , let the hotel know ! If it is after 8 PM , call the hotel to let them know ( or remind them ) that you are going to be late . If it is after 10 PM , call them again . If it 's after midnight and a weekend , call again . Seriously . You will be charged , of course , but at least you will have a room whenever you finally drag in . Final
Summary : I think your best bet is to look up the price for a slightly shortened trip on <URL> , from the first train 's first stop to the last train 's next-to-last stop . You can find non-TGV prices on Rail Europe as well . I just went to <URL> , entered Paris to Grenoble and clicked on " check fares " . As you can see , the cheapest fare if you book now is slightly cheaper than the TER fare ( which you can get on an open ticket , but only at a station , not online ) . However , I do n't know how reliable this far is , especially since I did n't even manage to display it in EUR . Rail Europe tends to have a markup ; I 'm not sure if this markup is consistent between modes . On <URL> , there indeed seems to be no way to select only trains without compulsory booking ( TER and Intercités , not Teoz ) . The <URL> website does n't have rates , but anyway there are n't any Intercités involved in a trip between Paris and Grenoble , only TGV or TER . You can look up the price of TER on each regional website , accessed from the <URL> . It takes a lot of clicks and it 's in French . Eventually you might be able to find prices for each leg of your journey ( I 'm not even sure of that , for trains that cross several regions there may be cases where you ca n't know the price for a span that crosses a region border ) . Rates are degressive , so the price from your origin to your destination will be slightly less than the sum of the prices of each leg . You may be able to get a rough idea of prices if you split your journey into several legs for which TGV does n't make sense . For example , you can see from the schedules on the DB website that the first stop after Paris on the Paris to Grenoble by TER trip is Sens , and the last stop before Grenoble is Voiron ; if you ask Voyages-SNCF to go from Sens to Voiron , you 'll get prices for the TER-only trip . Rates are degressive , so the price for Paris to Grenoble will be only a little more . Sorry for the suckiness of SNCF 's web sites , it 's very well-known in France . Your best bet to find prices is at a station . Ask an employee , as the machines are n't always able to find trip possibilities that are n't the fastest . In any case , for a trip where you do n't book in advance , you 'll often have to buy your ticket at the station .
I have had this problem in other US cities ( and , to be fair , other countries/cities before ) . I think many taxi companies are not that interested in taking advance bookings - either they figure there 's a good chance you wo n't turn up , or they just do n't manage their taxis that way . In either case , in US cities , when booking something like this a day or two in advance , I tend to use something like a limo/black car service instead - which is n't as expensive as you might be imagining ( in other words , can be price competitive with a taxi ) . I tend to use an aggregator - something like <URL> , which searches several services . There are lots of alternatives , though .
Do n't worry . Finding temporary unskilled jobs in Australia is easy , the economy is booming and Australians do n't want to do them so hostels , cafes , restaurants , ski resorts , farms etc rely quite heavily on cheap , seasonal backpacker/working holiday labor . As Mark says , the easiest thing is to simply ask around at your hostel after arrival , but also take a look at <URL> to get an idea of the type of jobs and wages on offer .
You pretty much will have to go on a tour . It 's through a national park area , and in addition to that , requires extensive knowledge of the area - there are n't many roads as such . So you 'll go on a tour , and they 'll guide you through the border . So in that regards , yes , it 's very easy . You join a tour , and follow their instructions :) I can recommend Tierra Mistica , although our guide only spoke Spanish , it was a very enjoyable trip ( the tour at least , Uyuni did n't go so well for me , but that 's a different story ) .
I believe it depends on the issuing authority , but usually about two weeks if you pay the fee to have it expedited . You really ca n't ask for a definitive time , because it also depends on how busy they are . I have friends who paid the fee and got their passports renewed in just under two weeks , but that was a few years ago . If you were born outside of the US and the issuing authority is the US State Department , it can take longer . I was informed of this when I received my daughter 's passport , she was born abroad . If you are out of the country and renewing through your local embassy , give it several months either way . I recently got a renewal in Manila which took just under 10 days , and inquired if that 's the usual amount of time from most embassies and they said yes . But , do n't let paperwork kerfuffles jeopardize your travel plans , or being abroad without a valid passport for a little while . Additionally , if renewing the passport for someone under the age of 16 , bring pictures of them that show their growth from their last passport photo to their appearance now . The consulate might let you slide if the resemblance is uncanny , but be prepared - not having these could cause substantial delays . To be safe , I 'd allow at least two months . You might not be able to expedite it if you 're out of the country , so keep that in mind . Otherwise , pay the extra fee , the worst that can happen is you get it sooner than expected . That is of course if not having it renewed in time might put a dent in your travel plans .
The answer to this is : Fairly . I did n't use a colectivo in the end myself - for our group and distance , a Taxi only cost 30 MXN more . The walk from the highway is real , but probably only 500m - 800m or so . There is a sidewalk on the highway overpass ( if you need to get to/from that side of the road ) . Once over the highway there is a footpath seperated from the road to take you to the entrance .
Although nowhere near as ubiquitous as in the US , coffee shops are relatively common in major Thai cities , especially those with high tourist numbers ( eg , Bangkok , Chang Mai ) . In addition to over 100 Starbucks stores around the country you 'll also find countless McDonalds , many of which have " McCafe " and - depending on the area - many western style coffee shops serving your choice of various forms of espresso and drip coffees . When ordering it 's worth making sure that you 're getting what you think you are . " Cappuccino " does n't vary around the world as much as some other drinks , but there are slight variations between countries ( and often between shops in the same counties ! ) . Starbucks has the edge here in that they will almost always make the US version of a drink regardless of what country you 're in . Expect to pay about the same as what you would in the US , which means that your morning coffee could well be the most expensive thing you buy all day !
I looked at <URL> 's English and Japanese-language web sites , but neither of them appears to have any weather alerts , nor even any section for weather information or cancellations . Your best bet for accurate information , then , is probably to call them ( 092-281-2315 ) . That said , based on the weather prediction , I expect you 're going to be cutting it very close . The Beetle does claim a <URL> and the ability to operate in <URL> , so I expect that they will operate right to those limits . I would n't expect the final decision to run or cancel your particular ferry to be made until the last minute , taking into account weather conditions at the time .
In general the point of the medical component of travel insurance is to deal with acute treatement abroad and then if nessacery to transport you back home ( flying someone home on a stretcher is not cheap ) . Accidents do n't just happen when travelling , so if you feel the need for insurance against disablity caused by accidents then you should probablly look for something that will cover you all the time . It 's probablly also worth checking if any pension or life insurance policies you have include any cover for this .
You need the drivers license from your home country an <URL> that serves as a translation . Even if there is no legal requirement for this ( I found conflicting information on this ) , you can not rely that the policeman who stops you in the road nor the clerk at the car rental knows English well enough to read your US license . There are different ages required depending on the rental agency . <URL> you to be 21 , <URL> .
If you rent an Automatic , you 'll be given an Automatic . If you do n't rent an Automatic , you will most likely be given a manual . In countries like Ireland ( presuming you mean Killarney , Ireland ? ) , the majority of rental cars will be manual , and renting an automatic will almost certainly be more expensive . On a rental I had in the UK a few weeks ago , the prices for an automatic ranged from 2 times to 5 times the price of a manual , and at least one company was " sold out " of all automatics whilst still renting manuals . As with any rental cars , there 's always the possibility that they will not have what you 've booked when you arrive . This is normally caused by people not returning vehicles on time , leaving the location short of a specific type of car . This is no difference regardless of whether you book an auto or a manual , with the exception that as companies in the UK normally have less autos available there is potentially a greater chance of this happening when you book an auto . If this does happen , you should ask the company to make you a booking at a different rental company and cover the additional costs ( if any ) .
end question
start question
Getting from Halifax , Canada to the US by bus/train ?
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
Yes , you can travel with regional trains . It takes a little over 4 hours plus the connection times , and there are no good connections , so count on 5 to 6 hours for the journey . The bus takes 4 -- 5 hours and is cheaper than regional trains . It is n't easy to find the train times or prices because online planners tend to go for the fastest journey only . There 's an option to avoid ICE on the <URL> , which avoids other high-speed trains such as Thalys ( currently -- it did n't in the past ) . If you ca n't get a list of local trains connections , look up Bruxelles -- Lille , Lille -- Amiens and Amiens -- Paris separately . As of today , you can break your journey as follows : Paris -- Amiens : 21.60 $ , lasts 66min to 99min , about 1 train per hour . Amiens-Lille Flandres : 21.10 $ , lasts 80min , about 1 train per hour . Lille Flandres -- Bruxelles with a change at Tournai : 22.60 $ , lasts 102min , about 1 train per hour . That 's a total of 65.30 $ . It should be a little less if you go to a train station and buy a single ticket ( I do n't think you can buy that ticket online ) . In comparison , a last minute Thalys ticket costs 99 $ and the journey is only 82min . If I elect to travel one day later I find seats for 69 $ ( obviously this depends on how full the trains are ) . A last minute ticket on <URL> costs 39 $ for a 4-hour journey or 29 $ for a 5-hour journey , with no break of journey either way . So regional trains do n't seem like a good compromise between price , comfort and speed .
As @MatthewHerbs indicates , there are taxi companies that will take you from the Blaine crossing to the Bellingham airport and probably as far as SeaTac too for quite a price : about $ 50 to BLI , about $ 250 more to SEA . Much to my surprise , it seems this is it : Toronto or Vancouver and that 's it . The main Canadian airports are : Calgary International Airport Edmonton International Airport Halifax Stanfield International Airport Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier International Airport Toronto Pearson International Airport Vancouver International Airport Winnipeg James Armstrong Richardson International Airport For Calgary ( actually , Medicine Hat is an airport closer to the border ) , Winnipeg , Montreal and Ottawa there is practically nothing south of these cities in Canada neither across the border so there 's no public transit . Compare the population density of northern Montana / North Dakota / the Adirondacks to the Windsor / Detroit area . Edmonton and Halifax are far from the border .
It is completely okay . I do similar things all the time , although the two passports I hold are both visa-free in most of the places I visit . The Greek official will not care whether you have a stamp from Turkey in your passport . She or he will be concerned only with stamps from Greece and other countries in the Schengen area , to determine whether you have ever overstayed your visa . Assuming you have not , there will be no problem . Of course , if the Greek official does ask about your travel to Turkey , or whether you have Iranian nationality , you should tell them that you are an Iranian national , and if it seems they want documentation of that , show your passport . In general , you should volunteer as little information as you need to , but always give any information that they ask for . I would add that I once entered Turkey with some Bosnian/Canadian dual nationals who did not have their Bosnian passports . Turkey is ( or was then ) one of the few places that Bosnians can go without a visa . I was traveling on a US passport , and my visa fee was something like USD 15 or 20 . The Canadians , entering on their Canadian passport , had to pay a fee of $ 60 , if I recall correctly . I think the disparate fee amounts are based on the fees that Turks have to pay for visits to the country in question . My friends regretted that they had not brought their Bosnian passports ; you 'll save a decent amount by remembering your Iranian one .
OK after even more research and legwork I have reached some generalizations ( any of which may be wrong so please correct me ) : There are not actually bus companies operating buses between Greece and Georgia , but travel agencies chartering buses . A bus departs Greece headed for Georgia each day of the week , with one particular travel agency dealing with each particular day of the week . This suggests there may be seven agencies assuming there is a bus on all 7 days of the week . All or most of the agencies have offices in the same area of Thessaloniki , at the part of Filippou Street near Agn . Stratiotou and Mitseon Streets , which is near the ruins of the Roman Forum of Thessaloniki . Not all of the agencies have any English-speaking staff , but Nougzari Tours does . Other agencies in the area will happily send you there if you ca n't manage in Greek , Georgian , or Russian . Departure times may vary , you are advised to check when booking . This is probably a subsequence of the buses being charters . The ruins of the Roman Forum of Thessaloniki near several of the Georgian travel agencies which run buses to Tbilisi : Known agencies running buses on particular days of the week Sunday : <URL> Monday : <URL> Tuesday : Wednesday : Thursday : <URL> Friday : Saturday : Shopfronts of a couple of the Georgian travel agencies in Thessaloniki in the area described above : ( This answer is a Community Wiki so please correct any mistakes or add any missing or new information . )
I live in a very corrupt country - Ukraine . Let me give you some advice . First , try to avoid looking like stranger . Try to look like the locals . That is often difficult , I know . It 's the only advice about how to avoid corrupt police . They often search for strangers just to get some money from them , because strangers are easy meat . All the other advice is how to deal with bribes and police . The key is your behaviour . In corrupt countries it is very important to behave like you are a very important authority . Corrupt policemen are afraid of their bosses only . You need to make them think that you can contact local authorities or your embassy to ask for help . This where the second tip comes from ... Take your local embassy phone numbers with you . Call them whenever any problem with bribes and corruption happens . In my experience that mostly helps , however it depends on the embassy . All developed countries have very good embassies and own citizen 's protection mechanisms . If you are forced to give bribes to police , then ask the police officers to help you to avoid all future problems with other officers . They are mostly happy to help you with that . It 's like a deal , you give him a bribe - he helps you in the future . Take their phone numbers , for example , in order to call them when the next police officer harasses you . I believe it is very important to have an interpreter with you . Without one you 'll be harassed too often . And make sure the interpreter also behaves like alpha-male . The bribe value for strangers is usually 10 times higher then same for locals . So , you can bargain with them . For example , a $ 30 USD bribe could be $ 3 USD . Never give your IDs or papers to police . Just show your documents and refuse to give them . That works in all ex-USSR countries . Try to never leave your car to talk to police . Talk through the window only . If they frighten you with a gun - they have broken a very serious law . Unfastening a holster , talking about their guns - that 's what I 'm talking about . Call the embassy immediately . However , I 've never heard of a policeman who broke that law . Never run away from police . In this case you can get into a lot of trouble . This is not a complete list , of course . But I tried to make it as descriptive as possible . To summarize , I 'd like to remind that your dominating behaviour is the key .
but [ tipping ] is meant to be for a good job Yes , in theory , but in practice it 's standard to ( almost ) always leave a tip . Even if the service is merely " bad " , then you generally leave a tip on the low end of the scale . If it really is appalling ( ie , they got your order completely wrong , or were excessively slow for no good reason ) , then you leave a very low tip ( ie , 5 % ) , or leave the 1-cent tip if you want to send a pointed message . I think I 've only ever done that once or twice ( and I eat at restaurants a lot ) . It 's not legal to pay staff less than the minimum wage excluding tips , so that 's not really the issue . However , minimum wage ( in the United States ) is <URL> ( $ 7.25 / hr ) compared to other countries like <URL> ( $ 10 + ) and <URL> ( $ 16 ) . And then , service staff are often paid on the low end of the scale , despite the relatively difficult nature of the work . So it 's a sign of respect to tip generously as a policy ; and there is a stigma attached to being too cheap , for which poor tipping is presumed evidence .
The end of most major bus lines from Santiago is in Puerto Montt , from there people usually take the <URL> ferry to go further south , for example to Puerto Natales where there is another road . This is not a short ferry , more a cruise ship and takes four days . The other option is to go to Chiloé island which is south-west of Puerto Montt , There are several buses a day ( <URL> ) to Quellon , the southernmost city on Chiloe . Again there is a ferry involved to get to the island , but the ferry ride is much shorter and I think you stay on the bus .
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
As a UK Citizen , you are eligible for the <URL> . Upon entering the US by land , all you 'll need is your passport and to not have entered any of the few proscribed countries in the past . Look at <URL> . I 've quoted Point 4 below , but you 'll probably want to read the whole thing and ensure none of the issues apply to you . If they do n't , you 'll be allowed to stay in the US for up to 90 days , no problem . 4 . What are the specific changes to the VWP ? Under the Act , travelers in the following categories are no longer eligible to travel or be admitted to the United States under the VWP : Nationals of VWP countries who have traveled to or been present in Iran , Iraq , Sudan , or Syria on or after March 1 , 2011 ( with limited exceptions ) . Nationals of VWP countries who are also nationals of Iran , Iraq , Sudan , or Syria . These restrictions do not apply to VWP travelers whose presence in Iraq , Syria , Iran , or Sudan was to perform military service in the armed forces of a program country , or in order to carry out official duties as a full-time employee of the government of a program country . These military and official government services exceptions , however , do not apply to the dual national restriction . Travelers who are known to fall into the dual national category noted above will receive notice via email on or about January 21 , 2016 that their current ESTA is no longer valid . The Act also requires that all VWP travelers use an electronic passport for travel to the United States by April 1 , 2016 . Finally , the Act includes other changes to the VWP to promote enhanced information sharing of terrorism and criminal data , and use of INTERPOL databases and notices for border screening purposes . The vast majority of VWP eligible travelers will not be affected by the legislation . Finally , this answer has only been about entering the US . To fly into Canada , as commented by <URL> , you will most likely be eligible for and want to apply to receive an <URL> .
When I crossed the border Canada - > US ( on a European passport ) earlier this year by car they did not ask for any return tickets . Just what I do for a living , how long I plan to stay in the US , how I plan get out and how much money I had on me and available in my bank account . Been there before for 2 weeks and in transit a couple of times ; so maybe they took my previous records into account ... The first time however was a completely different story ; had to attend a conference , but did not book a hotel before and the guy in customs would n't let me pass until I had an hotel address for my arrival card . Was stuck there for ~ 1h , in the end I just wrote down a random hotel address from the yellow pages . So my advice would be to have some sort of reservation for a hotel/hostel where you stay for at least one night , and the greyhound tickets just in case , because you MUST write some address down on your arrival card , otherwise thou shall not pass ...
<URL> . The first one departs from the Belarusian capital at 7:45 a.m. and returns at 18:10 . The second train from Minsk to Vilnius leaves at 18-50 , and comes back at 6:05 . What happens , in most border crossings by train is that there 's a stop on either side of the border , often at an 'em pty ' station . Border guards get on the train , and check your paperwork , as well as issuing you with any other paperwork you may need for entry into Lithuania . Then you carry on to the other side of the border , where a similar process repeats itself . I would suspect that it 's done in Godagai , 10km pre-border , but do n't worry - they 'll explain it , or just make it happen . Neither country is going to let a train-load of passengers cross the border without checking/issuing paperwork ! Sometimes , as in the case when travelling between Poland and the Ukraine , the rail guage is different , so they do the passport stuff while lifting the train and changing the wheels . It 's a very interesting experience . I have n't done that border crossing , but I 've been between Poland and Lithuania , and <URL> , if that 's of any assistance .
Indian citizens are eligible for single entry <URL> . You should apply for your e-Visa at least 24 hours before your departure .
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
Unfortunately , the online site doens ' t have all the features that a phone booking or in-person booking does . Perhaps one day . It 's not however , a duplicate of their functionality . Most common bookings can indeed be done online , and the assumption is travellers likely have similar discounts , if any . You have two options : Book two separate transactions , which gets you the discount , but causes you problems with bank fees and cardholder rights . You can also get the web discount , which is sometimes cheaper than in person anyway . Phone or book in person ( if possible ) . This allows more complex bookings , and should let you do it in one transaction .
According to the <URL> there is nothing that goes directly to Venezia . There are 2 bus companies that service the Bergamo airport as well <URL> which could get you to Milan or Brescia and then you would have to take the train . The other one <URL> will only get you to Milan and then you can take a train or a bus . But based on what I am reading <URL> it 's not preferred and what you save may not be worth it . But if you still choose to go check out this site : <URL>
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
There are generally two different types of " standby " travel . The first is when you have a confirmed reservation on a later flight , and you " standby " on an earlier flight in order to get to your destination earlier . Many airlines allow this ( sometimes free , sometimes with a fee ) - but I suspect that 's not what you 're referring to . The second type of standby is where you have a specific " standby " ticket - which means that you do not have a confirmed reservation on any flight . If there are seats available on the flight shortly before departure then standby passengers will be given those seats . I 'm guessing this is the type of standby you 're referring to ! Historically a number of airlines allowed for this latter type of standby tickets , often at a discount to the normal price , but with the catch that you might not get on a flight for days or even weeks , depending on how full the flights were . Over the years most airlines have dropped standby tickets - at least to the public - and I 'm not aware of a single airline that offers them on US < - > Europe flights . Most airlines do still allow standby tickets to their own staff , and occasionally to other groups such as family members of staff , staff from other airlines , travel agents , etc - but not to the general public .
end question
start question
Crossing border from Spain to Morocco - possible problems ?
In December 2014 , I took a ferry from Spain to Tanger and , a few days later , crossed into Ceuta , after which , again a few days later , I crossed back into Morocco . Getting into Morocco , from Spain , was a breeze . Immigration was done on the ferry . Getting into Ceuta was a bit more cumbersome , but not a huge hassle . I waited in line for perhaps 20 minutes . Getting back from Ceuta into Morocco was easy as well . On the whole , all crossings were fairly straightforward , and I never felt even remotely unsafe . I traveled on a Dutch passport .
I traveled through 18 countries last year with : Clean-shaven passport photo Bearded Brazilian Visa photo Bearded International Driver 's License When entering Brazil I did n't have a beard , and most of the rest of the time I was bearded traveling with my clean-shaven passport photo . I never had one issue . Does n't mean you wo n't but most of the border agents realize that people do n't look exactly like their photo . If you can split the difference in your photo , I 'd recommend that , but do n't worry about it too much .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
The <URL> on Wikitravel as referenced in <URL> continues : As of March 2007 , travel beyond Kengtung to the rest of Myanmar is not possible , even with a valid tourist visa Kengtung is a town several hours by bus from the Thai border . We stayed there for a few days and then took a domestic flight to Inle Lake . You can also fly to Mandalay and Rangoon and continue to the accessible rest of the country from there . I did meet people in Burma who crossed the border from China but that involved a pseudo tour with a $ 200 price tag . I also know someone who left Burma into Thailand overland from Rangoon , but I do not remember which border crossing she used . I myself entered in Mae Sai and flew out of Rangoon to Chang Mai , which means it is possible to use different crossings when entering and exiting . If the question is whether you can enter from one country and exit into a third , this seems possible from China into Thailand as long as you have the required permits to visit usually off-limit areas . Unless you try super hard and have very good connections it seems not possible to cross the Indian-Burmese border which is what many people including me would love to do .
A number of airlines will append your title ( MR , MRS , etc ) to your first name when they issue your boarding passes , so it appears as SURNAME/FIRSTNAMEMR . It can appear this way on the gate agent 's terminal as well . I have not had any personal experience with Aegean Airline 's system , so can not say with 100 % certainty , but likely you are OK .
In December 2014 , I took a ferry from Spain to Tanger and , a few days later , crossed into Ceuta , after which , again a few days later , I crossed back into Morocco . Getting into Morocco , from Spain , was a breeze . Immigration was done on the ferry . Getting into Ceuta was a bit more cumbersome , but not a huge hassle . I waited in line for perhaps 20 minutes . Getting back from Ceuta into Morocco was easy as well . On the whole , all crossings were fairly straightforward , and I never felt even remotely unsafe . I traveled on a Dutch passport .
You should be fine . All entry points across the country are synchronized to use the same records , so any notes made in San Diego will be visible next time you enter , regardless of where you go . That said , there is a ( small ) risk is that the CBP officer did not completely fix up your records , so when you leave the country , your exit is not tied to your entry . If yes , because the US has no record of you leaving , you might be considered an illegal overstayer and get stopped the next time you come . If you have proof you left the US , eg . an entry stamp into another country , you can sort this out on the spot ; if not , things could get hairy . In a sane country , this would be sorted out at exit immigration , but Uncle Sam does n't have that . If you want to check , you could write to the CBP FOIA department and request a <URL> , which should show your entries and exits , and then you can ( try to ) take action if your exit does n't show . All that said , the mix-up with your niece sounds bizarre and confusing . As a wild guess , I 'd guess somebody screwed up some data entry when they were processing your visa , although I still do n't understand how they could possibly substitute your niece 's details . Which visa do you have , and did she sponsor your application or something ?
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
My Japanese friend tried this week in Islamabad ( not near the border but better than nothing ) , at the Consulate General of the Islamic Republic of Iran . Conclusion : It is hard to get , but not impossible ! The first time she tried , she was turned down . The second time she tried even harder , and that worked ! She paid a Rs . 5000 visa fee .
Anything not going through Switzerland will be much cheaper . Switzerland sells annual toll tickets ( 'M ärkli ' ) only , which for a single trip easily beats any other toll . Each countries ' toll road agencies will have websites where you can calculate the expected amounts . Note that in some countries , different toll roads are handled by different agencies .
It did n't stop me , I got a grilling about the contents of my passport when I traveled for business in February . The people doing the checks were El Al staff , before departing LHR . They asked me about stamps for Egypt x2 ( from the beginning of the civil unrest ) , Jordan , UAE , Turkey , Morocco and a trip to Lyon , France ( though I suspect that was to get a baseline ) . The whole process took about 45 min plus another 45 min for a search at the gate . Then no questions asked at customs - they stamped my boarding pass as I requested and let me in .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
ATMs will only dispense cash in the local currency , but you might be able to get USD from a money changer because USD is quite popular .
Mileage varies related to the traveler 's nationality , but I entered Armenia from Georgia just three weeks ago and got a 6 euro visa at the border without any problems . I was traveling on a Dutch passport . Danes and Germans crossing the border at the same time as me also easily got their visa at the border for the low price of 6 euros . The visa fee was payable in Armenian currency only . No ATMs were available , but a change machine was . I was asked how long i wanted to stay , said about two weeks and got 20 days . I feel I could have gotten longer if I 'd ask . The crossing might have been at Bagramashen , but I 'm not totally sure anymore . I took a regular marshrutka from Tbilisi train station to Yerevan .
I 'd suggest a few things : Learn to how to say " Do you speak english ? " - " Parlez-Vous Anglais ? " and " ¿ Hablas inglés ? " Learn some basic pronunciations in the two languages ( they may have the same letters but they do n't always sound the same ! ) . Reading through a guide then listening to some examples online should help with this Bring a common phrase book , and a pocket dictionary Learn Hello , Please , Thank You etc Then , when you 're there : Generally start with the few words of French/Spanish you know , then switch to the phrase book As soon as you get stuck , ask ( in their language ! ) if they speak English , see above At that point , if they do you can usually switch to English and they 'll appreciate you having tried If not , point to items in the phrase book And get the dictionary out for any problem words ( most commonly I find are dishes and ingredients in restaurants ) And finally , enjoy your trip !
Yes . I recently stayed at Calangute beach and a taxi driver took me to Old Goa and Panjim for 1400 rupees . This price is from a government table and is used by all the taxi drivers . If Panjim was not involved the ride would have cost around 1000 rupees . If you negotiate you can get it cheaper than the table price . I do n't remember exactly how long the journey took , but it was certainly not more than 90 minutes .
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
Technically , you can . Practically , 4 hours is not that much time . If you 're admitted to the US on arrival , you go out through the immigration and customs , and its up to you whether to turn left ( connections ) or right ( exit ) , no-one forces you to go either way . I might have confused left and right , have n't been in LAX international arrivals for a while now . You 'll have to go through the security again if you exit ( if I remember correctly - you 'll have to go through the security either way , but I may be wrong on this ) . To answer your second question : the closest Apple Store is in <URL> , 10 minutes from LAX by cab . The <URL> , both along Sepulveda Blvd South , on your left when driving from the airport . If you 're into buying electronics , then right in between there 's <URL> . You can go to the mall , and walk your way back to Best Buy ( 10 minutes walk + stop at Fry 's , beware of the time though , people tend to spend hours at Fry 's :-) ) , and get a cab back ( call the cab ahead of time though ) .
end question
start question
Travelling to " Azawad " - is it possible at present ?
Updates now state that the MLNA has given up on the Azawadian independence : <URL> <URL> After renewed fighting has pushed much of the MLNA into other battles , as well as the African Union refusing to accept it , it would appear that it 's a lost cause , and is viewed on Wikipedia as a ' former ' rogue state . This negates much of the political travel problems , however the problems of entering a war-torn zone still pose much trouble and danger .
Unless you are trying to enter the country with something prohibited or illegal , customs will not " block " it . They will , however , charge you import duties on anything you are importing -- gifts included . Most ( all ? ) countries provide an exception up to a certain value and for certain items , meaning you may not have to pay duties on gifts if they are cheap enough . According to <URL> from Bangladesh customs ( t/h @GCCampbell ) , you will be charged a 10 % import duty for your graphics card . So be sure to carry the receipt with you to prove how much you paid . Otherwise the customs officer will be forced to estimate the value , and his estimate may not be favorable to you !
I 'll buy a Japan Rail Pass , but I did n't understand if I can use it on nearby subway stations such as Ningyocho , Kodenmacho and others . Is it possible ? No . These are part of the Tokyo Metro , which is not operated by JR , and thus the JR pass is not valid there . The nearest JR station is Shin-Nihombashi on the Sōbu line , but it 's a commuter line that goes only one stop into Tokyo to Toyko main station , where you could change to urban Chūō or Yamanote lines . The Yamanote line itself has the Kanda station a bit further , but that 's already a significant walking distance . is it possible to visit typical tourist places in Tokyo using the JR Pass ? There are some JR lines that are useful within Tokyo , namely the Yamanote and Chūō , and together they cover many of the main tourist attractions , at least if you 're prepared to walk a bit . But you 'll often take a lot longer than if you were willing to freely use all public transportation via the <URL> . Another factor is that with the JR pass , you can not use the normal entry/exit gates - you have to find one where there 's a JR employee and show it to them ( or climb over the gates and look like a criminal ) . So basically , relying only on a JR pass within Tokyo is possible but very inconvenient . Of course you can still use it to save some money when there 's a good connection to your target through a JR line , but that would be the case far more often if you chose a hotel near a JR station .
It depends on what you consider ' special skills ' . With some excercise , paddling should be feasible for most people . For the English Channel , you can easily find operators and boat charterers offering planning support or equipment rent : <URL> Crossing the Øresund may not be much more than 5km ( depending on where you cross ) and can obviously be done with very simple equipment . Here 's a video of two Swedes crossing on stand up paddleboards : <URL>
After visiting Grjótagjá , I 'm able to respond my own question since @MikkaRin answer is not as complete as it should be . When you arrive to Grjótagjá you find these panel : It 's self-explanatory : " The public is prohibited from bathing or use of caves for purposes other than for inspection and photography " . Given this , it states that the temperature is between 43 and 46 degrees , over the <URL> ( that is near 42ºC ) . Also , the panel warns about the possibility of falling rocks and leaves at your own risk the entry . So if with all this you still want to bathe , is possible ? Yes . When we first stayed there , nobody was watching the site and a couple of islanders ( probably , not confirmed ) were leaving the site after bathing . The next morning , when we returned to make some photos with natural light , nobody was at this area . What happen if you bathe ? I confess we bathed . We made a flexible interpretation of the panel : we can bathe here if we have a photographic purpose . Also , we thought that we ca n't have any problem with the owner of the land or the authorities ( because we stayed just 30 minutes , nobody guarding and other people were bathing here before we arrive ) and we thought the probability of failing rocks were very low . The big problem was the water temperature . It 's very hot , hotter than I have ever tried ( in Budapest I could stay 15 minutes without any problem in a 42ºC hot tub ) . I had to go out after 10 minutes and other friends could n't ever stay more than 5 minutes . After bathing , you have to dry up very fast or you will start to shiver and start feeling sick ( it happened to 2 of 5 persons in the group ) .
It almost certainly depends on the ticket , but unless it 's a fully flexible ticket , I doubt you can do this cheaply , or possibly at all . The ticket is most likely a ticket from Tokyo to Rio ; the airline treats the connection as incidental . In fact , in practice they could even send you a different route ( not via LA ) if it made sense to do so on the day ( weather etc. ) . In most cases you are n't allowed to break your journey up , therefore , as that would be a different trip . The only way you 'll know for sure is to call the airline and ask , but if your tickets are non-refundable , prepare to spend a lot of money to make this change .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
Generally , the most popular tourist destination for beaches are located on East and South coast of Korea . With some minor exceptions , I 'd avoid West coast in general because most of their beaches look like this : I know one of your primary concerns is proximity of the destination via public transportation , but what you must know is that Korea has one of the finest public transportation system in the world . Given its system and the size of the country , you could almost reach anywhere in Korea within 3 hours . My recommendations are Haeundae Beach in Busan ] or Gyungpodae Beach in Gangneung . Both locations have clean , swimmable water with lots of infrastructures available . It takes approximately two hours from Seoul to Busan via KTX + maybe an hour to take the bus in between to get to the station and to the beach , you could easily set yourself a foot on Haeundae within three hours . To Gyongpodae Beach in Gangneung , you 'd have to take a bus in Express Bus Terminal . It takes about 2 hours and 30 minutes by bus + 30 minutes to get to the beach . Some of the answers here mentioned Eurwangni . If proximity is an absolute must to you ... you COULD try Eurwangni I guess , but you 'll probably be disappointed . If situation allows , I really recommend you take a day or two to visit Busan or Gangneung . Aside from swimming , there are tons of other activities you can do .
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
I actually remember on Netflix watching an episode of a TV show where these adventists actually spent 48 hours in Chernobyl . Turns out the town is so isolated that the people and camera crew actually had to transfer from a passenger train in the Ukrane and finish the rest of the commute in a freight train car for 48 hours from the main transit hub . From there , they actually interviewed some people who actually were living fairly normally despite the geiger meter being about 8x the safe radiation level , and they were saying how the reason they still lived there was because of family tradition . Surprisingly the people never wore hazmat suits but still survived , although they were taking a ton of iodine and did get sick after awhile , but in the show they did go near the powerplant ( still covered with cement blocks ) and the radiation was ~ 32x higher than the safe limit -- even at 2-3 miles from the plant . I wish I had the name of the show in my head , but I 'm pretty sure the channel was Sy-Fi or something like that -- and overall it was a pretty interesting episode , especially how they showed the residents still living there actually have genetic changes to adapt to the higher radiation ( although the area near the plant is literally a dead zone )
Yes , there are numerous such offers : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They all seem to start at Kathmandu , so you can probably shop around there .
Would getting a nominative card enable me to recharge it through the website without a Dutch banking card ? No it would n't . Last time I 've checked , online payments were done via <URL> , which only works with Dutch banks . Also it 's really crappy solution , where you pay on-line , but then you actually have to find physical terminal to put the credit on the card . There are many types of chip-card recharging machines , some of them in theory do accept VISA and MasterCard credit cards ( although my personal experience trying non-Dutch VISA credit card was negative ) . UPDATE : Seems that this has improved lately , in many places foreign cards with <URL> seem to work in the Netherlands . Generally speaking whole OV-chipkaart system is total mess . It 's also not very clear which products you can put on which type of cards ( some allow you to get both GVB and NS credit , some do n't ) . Safest way is to go to one of <URL> , but unfortunately that means waiting in queue ( very long queue in case of the one near Amsterdam Centraal ) .
I had this problem in Batumi some years ago , except I think we were looking for somewhere around 7am-8am ( I do n't remember why , I think we needed to take an early mashrutka somewhere ) . Batumi is definitely not a " mornings " sort of town . If you want a coffee at midnight though , you 're spoiled for choice ! After lots of walking around , we found somewhere that was ( if I remember right ) opening at 8am but took pity on us and let us in early . I remember it being on the corner of a square / park one block from the beach and beach-facing parks . After some browsing on Google Maps , I think I 've found the place , <URL> . I do n't recognise the name but it looks similar to what I remember and the location looks right : <URL> There 's also apparently an 8AM-opening ice cream place further from the beach , off an even smaller square , <URL> - I 'm pretty sure this is n't the one I 'm thinking of , as I 'd probably remember if I 'd had ice cream for breakfast and it 's several blocks from the beach , but it might be another option . While browsing I also found a <URL> , that 's within 10 minutes walk from both the other options , so this is probably the best area to explore . Whether these places really do open that early , I ca n't say for sure ... But I believe it is possible . Good luck !
An e-mail to Kahlúa asking about tours was answered with : Thanks for your email and your interest in Kahlúa . Unfortunately we do n't currently offer a tour of the Kahlúa facilities . If you have any further questions , please do n't hesitate to ask . Best regards Martin
The main difference between liquid soap and dish washer detergent is price . So not a good idea in general , but only because liquid soap is more expensive . One recipe for liquid soap is given <URL> -- note olive oil , coconut oil , essential oils . Some of the ingredients for a well-known brand of washing liquid are listed <URL> -- note Sodium laureth sulphate , Alcohol denat , sodium chloride . For the first of these three <URL> has " SLES is an inexpensive and very effective foaming agent . " For the second , consumers are used to alcohol ( ethanol ) being expensive , but that is only because of the tax . Denatured ( methylated spirits ) it is very much less expensive . <URL> is offered for AUD 3.30 . The third is common salt . Consider instead the first of the natural liquid soap ingredients . <URL> is offering one litre of olive oil for AUD 5.99 . Coconut oil is much more expensive still - AUD 20 per litre at <URL> . However , while Cocamidopropyl betaine features in detergents it is derived from coconut oil . According to <URL> " soap is natural and detergent is n't " . That was the case around the time detergents were being developed ( say 1930-50 ) but now most ' soaps ' are synthetic products . Another significant difference is the ecological effects -- see <URL> . Soap made from natural products is far friendlier to the environment . However , in terms of cleaning power they both work the same way . They are surface active molecules that cling to dirt at one end and to water at the other , and then get flushed away ( with the dirt ) on rinsing . Though there are some differences in how the two respond in ' hard ' water ( that is , where the mineral content is high ) . In terms of bactericides , some dish washing liquids are advertised for their disinfectant properties but , as with much else in the world of soaps and detergents , there is a LOT of hype . " Soaps " ( some TV programmes ) are not called what they are because the industry giants could not afford millions to promote products earning them billions . Dirty dishes are ones we have just eaten off -- they are not an environment that supports germs the way the human body does . Do we wash our hands in washing up liquid after a trip to the lavatory ? No we use ' soap ' ( at least , I hope you do ) because that kills germs . So , any form of detergent is good enough for dishes and liquid soap more expensive - but much more environmentally responsible . From a travel aspect however washing up liquid is generally more concentrated than ' liquid soap ' so might be more practical if to be carried around . The greater concentration is also a positive for washing up liquids to offset some of their environmental negatives .
There 's good news and bad news . The good news - <URL> , except the church land , private gardens and near water reservoirs . We researched this in 2008 and found many , many resources online saying it 's perfectly fine to camp even on the side of the road . We even checked this with locals in Novosibirsk when we got there . However , they suggested that while it 's cool and all , it 's safer to camp in a campsite as there 's security . And we could register with the campsite owner . The bad news - the campsite owners did n't do registration . However on subsequent trips to Russia , I 've found a lot of places claim to not do registration , or will come up with all sorts of excuses why they ca n't do it ( weekend , only staying a day , etc etc ) . The way around this is to find a travel agent , as it 's possible to register there . Or find a hostel and ask them to register you there for a week . That 's what most who were willing would do for me , as it made no difference to them , and would increase the odds of me staying there if I was already registered . And this <URL> also points out it 's possible to go and register at a Russian police station . Personally though , I 'd exhaust the travel agency / hostel tricks first before approaching the police about an ' unusual ' situation ( see <URL> ) .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
Mileage runs are absolutely still possible , it 's just a lot more complicated than it used to be and there 's no easy way to find them . For example , a simple " cents per mile " counter is useless these days , because almost all airlines have switched to awarding different amounts of miles for the same flight depending on the fare class , not to mention the byzantine complexity of different frequent flyer programs counting and awarding miles differently , bonuses for people who already have status , promotions etc etc , and the remaining deals are often found at the intersection of these . Following a specialist forum like <URL> remains your best bet for finding good deals . As an example , " <URL> " fares for any domestic JAL flight in Japan can be had for & yen ; 10,000 a pop ( actual value up to & yen ; 45,000 ) , which is great value in itself , and the cherry on top is that these award full miles on most oneworld frequent flyer programs -- but you ca n't even book Visit Japan fares online , so it 's not even theoretically possible to construct an engine that can find this . What would kill off mileage runs for good is switching to a simple " 1 mile per $ 1 paid " scheme . As discussed in <URL> , airlines all over the world are increasingly moving in this direction ; for example , for years now , Singapore Airlines has only awarded its highest status ( " PPS " ) to people who spend at least S$ 25,000 in cold , hard cash per calendar year . As far as I know , while nobody has gone whole hog yet , I suspect it 's just a matter of time until this happens , and a lot of hotel award programs already operate on this basis . And a personal opinion : I fly enough that doing more of it purely for Internet airline points has always struck me as silly . There are easier ways to both optimize point collection , like choosing your credit cards carefully and maximizing usage , and to get the most out of the points you have collected . There are some absolute gold mines to be found in the award charts .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
Malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water that collects after monsoons . If you 're travelling during winter or summer in India , you do n't have to worry about this too much as the weather conditions are not conducive for these specific mosquitoes to breed . Locals usually do n't take malaria pills , instead preferring to sleep in mosquito nets that will prevent you from getting bitten regardless of what type of mosquito it is . Most mosquitoes you 'll get bitten by ( and you will ) are harmless . While most travellers going to take precautions against malaria , another mosquito vector-borne disease that is common in India is <URL> . Compared to malaria , dengue is a bigger threat as it 's harder to ' prevent ' ; there are no pills or vaccinations for it . Like malaria , this is also transmitted by a specific kind of mosquito ( aedes aegypti ) locally known as ' tiger mosquito ' as it has yellow-striped bands on its legs . If you see such a mosquito , then you know to be extra careful . City and town authorities take disease control seriously and frequent fumigation is carried out during monsoon season ; you will be fairly safe when if you 're stick mostly to cities when travelling . It helps to keep an eye on local newspapers if you 're travelling for longer periods for news about dengue outbreaks . Take extra precaution when you 're staying near places with stagnant pools of water , such as the nature reserves , backwater lagoons et al. . Long story short : Sleep in a mosquito net , or burn a ' <URL> ' ( ask for it at any convenience store ; it burns slowly and releases smoke fumes that keep mosquitoes away . Handier to carry around than a net , but fragile so no point buying in bulk as they will break when packed in bags ) . It will keep you safe from malaria/dengue-carrying mosquitoes and every other kind .
end question
start question
What are my options for pre-paid SIM cards in Buenos Aires , Argentina ?
There are 3 major carriers in Argentina Claro , Movistar and Personal All three offer prepaid cards you can buy on literally hundred of shops around the city ( I am not sure were in Buenos Aires you are going , but if you are traveling to Capital Federal , then you will find shops on the streets , on every shopping mall , and big movie complex . There are some impromptu sidewalk shops across big avenues , but the discount you will get with them is not worth it ) . The first thing they will sell you is the chip ( SIM ) which is around $ 30 ( $ 6 USD ) . Once the number is activated , which is instantly , you can charge your new number on any kiosk around the city . You will see signs with a legend like ( " Cargamos Personal/Movistar/Claro " ) . You will be asked for your number and the amount you want to charge and they will send you the credit instantly.You should receive an SMS confirmation with your new credit . You will have to pay with cash on most of the Kiosks . If you want to use a CC go to a branded store or use the online option at the official website for the carrier . <URL> / <URL> / <URL> Make sure to ask the seller for current " deals " . Quite often you will find 2x1 on all your credit ( You will get $ 200 for $ 100 ) or unlimited SMS for 1 day , or free 500 SMS . All three companies currently offer unlimited 3G for $ 1 peso a day ( $ 0.20 USD ) . For Claro and Movistar ( and probably Personal ) you have free calls for clients of the same company . Prices will vary A LOT depending on your plan . Make sure to ask the person selling you the chip which one is more convenient . In Capital Federal is quite easy to find free WiFi . Almost every coffe shop , fast food chain or shopping mall will have open and free spots . Finally if you are visiting Argentina with United States Dollars or Euros remember there is a huge differente between the official price and the paralel valuation . $ 1USD can either be $ 4.90 pesos or $ 7.50 pesos depending which market you trade . Hope it helps !
From the Ukrainian point of view , <URL> in 2014 . As a result , transport options have been restricted from both the Ukrainian and the Russian side . In addition , it is now necessary to have a Russian visa ( or visa-free passport ) in order to access the Crimean territory . Flights In September 2015 , all flights between Russia/Crimea and Ukraine <URL> . So it would take at least two transfers from Kiev in order to reach Crimea : Bus It 's possible to take a <URL> from Kiev to Sevastopol for ~ 40 $ , however foreigners ( as in , everyone except Ukrainians ) now require a <URL> to cross the Ukraine/Crimea border : On September , 16 , 2015 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed the Resolution No 722 , amending the Procedure for entry to the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and exit from it regarding the entry to and exit from Crimea by foreign nationals , inter alia : Extract from the Para 3 of the Resolution : Foreign nationals can entry and exit from temporary occupied territory of Ukraine through special check points by presenting a passport and special permission issued by territorial body of State Migration Service of Ukraine or territorial body of Department for Migration Service of Ukraine in Novotroitsky or Genichesky district of Kherson oblast . This permission can only be issued to persons having relatives/property in Crimea or <URL> . Therefore this option is probably not reasonable for most travelers . On Foot The land border can be crossed on foot , but that option requires a special permission ( see the section above ) . Trains <URL> connect Ukraine to Crimea , however it 's possible to take a train to the Ukrainian border in the Kherson region . From the border region one could in theory cross on foot ( see the section above ) . Going from Crimea to Ukraine Unless you 've previously acquired the above-mentioned special permission and entered Crimea via Kherson , it 's impossible to cross into Ukraine from Crimea over land . The Ukrainian border guards could either deny you entry or arrest you for illegally entering the Ukrainian territory through Russia . Conclusion Flying via Moscow is probably the only feasible way for most tourists . Note that this option is technically illegal from the Ukrainian point of view , so I would avoid talking about Crimea to Ukrainian border guards in the future .
I 've been to all those places except for Shymkent last summer ( 2014 ) . But I did not follow your suggested route and walked and hitched a lot but also used some public transport options . Even though there are some bigger buses on some of the more popular routes , you will mostly rely on small buses and shared taxis . Even between Osh and Bishkek , the two biggest cities in Kyrgyzstan there are no regular bus services . Most people take a shared taxi or fly . On the other hand , the main bus station in Bishkek has lots of regular buses to Almaty and Shymkent in Kazakhstan and many other places . Arslanbob is a small place in the hills , you wont find a bus from Osh and even finding a shared taxi will be difficult . You can take a private taxi . You can also take a shared taxi from Osh to Jalal-Abad and then another one or a mini-bus to Arslanbob . In Arslanbob do n't expect to find a taxi to Bishkek or Song Kul , take a mini bus back to Jalal-Abad . I 'm not sure how easy it is to reach Song Kul from the south , most people come from Bishkek . To get to the lake itself , there is no public transport , your have to arrange a tourist bus or taxi in Kochkor . Many people get on horse . In general you find out where the buses/taxis are leaving from and go there in the morning . For shared taxis you always have to hackle about the price , this works even if you do n't speak Russian . You never book anything in advance . The car or SUV leaves when its full , unless you pay for all seats ( which can be more than you think ) . Tashkent has some overland buses , but even a popular route like the one to Samarkand is mostly done by shared taxi . I do n't know about the route from Tashkent to Osh , as I traveled through Tajikistan . So traveling in that region is rather adventurous , knowing some Russian helps a lot but I managed without . Unless you want to go to a really remote area , there are ways to get there , that 's how the locals travel . The main roads in Kyrgyzstan are actually in a pretty good condition , but because it is a very mountainous country , travel takes time . I ca n't give any specific costs and time estimates , but it 's all reasonable . Remember , this is how the locals travel and they are much poorer than you and me .
Generally speaking , from my experience VISA has wider coverage than MasterCard , but neither is 100 % . So to get best coverage , it 's recommendable having one of each . Niche brands like American Express or Diners Club are not commonly accepted , so do n't bother with them for international travel . However , keep in mind , that in many countries , there are places where credit cards are not commonly accepted in shops . For example in the Netherlands you can pay anywhere with " PIN-card " , which basically means only the debit card and only from local bank . It however seems to be slowly improving with introduction of EMVs ( chip cards authorized with PIN ) . As for Visa vs. Visa Electron or MasterCard vs. Maestro , I have n't seen any place which would accept the debit , electronic ones , but not credit cards . On the other hand there are places where only credit cards ( not debit cards ) are accepted ( car rental , hotel reservation , etc ) .
You 'll want to decide whether you need to make calls , send SMS , or if you 're just after it for data . Then take a look at the <URL> . Depending on what phone you have , you have a few options there , and it 'll depend on how much data you plan on using in those five days , of course , as to which one suits you the best , but you 'll be able to choose between 3 KHK , One2Free NextG and PEOPLE 's , each with their pros and cons .
According to <URL> <URL> <URL> , most taxis will take credit cards in Frankfurt . However , as the third link suggests , it 's always worth checking with the driver first to ensure that a ) they take credit cards and b ) whether or not there are any fees associated with doing so : Always confirm with your Frankfurt Airport taxi driver if they take credit or bank cards and if there are any card fees . So short answer - probably , but check with the driver/company before you get in/book .
Airliners or staff tickets are not available to regular passengers , they are strictly available to employees of different airlines . Each airlines provides each employee with certain or unlimited number of free/discounted tickets each year/contract depending on the contract or level of the employee . In addition to that each airline may have a bilateral agreement with other airlines so employees of these airlines can get discounted space available tickets on the other airline , this is called <URL> . The process of getting such a ticket is not as easy as dropping by an airline 's ticketing office and get one ! it has to be issued from the employee 's airline according to the agreement and it may have a special application to be filled and the person has to show proper airlines ID prior to boarding . These tickets usually are extremely cheap ( around 90 % discount or more ) but it is seat available , I have saved a lot of money because of the ZED agreements , I also have faced a lot of delays when the planes are full and I could n't get a seat . Anyway , staff tickets are only available to airlines staff . For regular passengers I am not aware of any disounted " Space Available " tickets , the only way to go is the different offers and discounts from different airlines/websites .
I spoke to multiple immigration lawyers and consultants and the consensus was that the consulate employee was poorly trained in US visa policy , as it was my US visa status that mattered , not the visa stamp . So I went back to the embassy to try again at a later date . This time , there was a different employee , and now , two weeks later , I have in my hands a Schengen visa .
Actually it 's not a tax , it 's a regular service fee . The information you are requesting can be found on the company website ( in Spanish ) : <URL> The service charge is 3 CUC ( + - 3 USD ) per day The minimal duration of a contract is 3 days You need to pay all the daily fees in advance for the period you will be using the line . Phone calls are paid independently You also need to add funds to your account for a minimum of 10 CUC ( + - 10 USD ) No internet service ( there is data roaming if you bring a phone from another country , but this is VERY expensive ) Additionally , there are wifi hotspots in most hotels and <URL> , there is an access fee of 2 CUC per hour that should be paid in advance .
For me , having a kitchen is one of the defining qualities of a hostel . I 'm sure there 's some that do n't have a kitchen but the vast majority do and should . If you want to meet people I would definitely suggest hostelling . Read online reviews though to find a hostel which suits your style . Some are heavy on partying and others are more family oriented for example . One advantage is that there are many great hostels all over Canada so unlike with renting an apartment you can still travel all over the place with little advance plans . You can even join people you meet in the hostel to travel with to your next destination . And now that I 'm thinking about it some of my favourite memories from my 20 + years of hostelling is teaming up with other travellers in the kitchen ! You 'll pick up cooking techniques from around the world and pass on your own favourite techniques .
Hiring cars in western europe ( UK/Spain/France / Switzerland ) , I 've had pre-approved amounts on my card of between nothing and # ( or maybe $ ) 1000 . None of these were especially flash cars - I can imagine the place that asked for 1000 off me would seek twice that for a " luxury " vehicle . In the # 400-800 range seems to be typical . You could always contact the customer services of the hire car company you intend to use to enquire .
There are only three operators in Australia that actually own and operate their own networks , and they are : <URL> , the former state monopoly . My usual recommendation if you 're planning to travel even slightly off the beaten track , since they have the widest network by a long shot , but a bit more expensive than the competition . <URL> , an arm of Singapore 's SingTel , and a good choice if you want to save a few pennies and are sticking mostly to the cities . <URL> aka Vodafail , the local branch of the multinational , infamous for poor coverage and network instability issues and recommended only if you 're a masochist . As a representative anecdote , two friends of mine who worked for Vodafone had their wedding in Yarra Valley , a popular tourist destination just outside Melbourne , and the winery they chose , 1 km off the main highway , had zero Vodafone coverage . Both have now quit , and neither uses Vodafone any more ! All three have booths just outside Customs at both Sydney and Melbourne ( and probably other major airports too ) . I 'm not going to go into plan details , since these change at the drop of a hat , but at time of writing ( Dec 2014 ) Optus 's $ 2/day with 500MB/day plan is about as good as it gets . It 's probably worth mentioning that comparing plans in Australia is ( intentionally ) really difficult , since all operators work on a basis of giving you funny money and pricing everything in funny money . For example , paying $ 20 might get you $ 200 of " credit " , but phone calls then cost you $ 7/min ( actually $ 0.70 / min ) , and of course the ratio of real money to credit varies based on the operator and plan you pick . There are also " virtual operators " ( MVNO ) like <URL> and <URL> that license the big boys ' networks . They claim to be cheaper , and occasionally may be , but tend to have really shoddy customer support , puny data speed limits in the small print , etc. . The small savings are n't worth the potential for big hassle in my opinion , but YMMV . Source : Have used SIMs from all three companies , and seen my wife struggle with a MVNO I shall not deign to advertise . Currently on Telstra and happy with it .
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
I 've used the <URL> in KUL before . You can book with them directly , but if you search around online there are various websites that sell access , and you 'd probably be looking at about $ 30/person . In terms of the lounge , it was ok but nothing stunning . There are showers available ( they 'll lend you a towel ) , but they were n't in great condition ( think slightly run-down hotel rather than a high-end airport lounge ) , though it 's enough to let you get clean and refreshed ! There was some food available , but not a great choice , and some drinks . Free fast wifi though , newspapers and magazines , and fairly nice chairs . For me it was worth the discounted price I 'd paid , but not the full price . If you have any fancy credit cards it 's worth checking with the issuer in advance , as some will include access to the lounge ( the people in front of me in the queue had free access with their platinum card for example ) I do n't believe there are any other pay-for lounges there - the rest tend to be airline ones reserved for their frequent travellers and business/first passengers . That said , KUL is a very nice airport to just wait around in . On the upper level they have 4 areas where you can sit to watch TV , they have free wifi , they have a small tropical garden in the centre of the airport , and everyone 's really nice . Depending on the flight times , you might find you only want a lounge ( for a shower and some food ) in one direction , and in the other just relaxing in the airport itself will be fine . 4-5 hours is possibly too tight to make it into the city and back ( I 've not tried it though ! ) , hopefully someone else can comment on that !
You might want to check out : <URL> The official site for the <URL> which has an <URL> You might also consider the <URL> If you want to buy bus tickets to other cities , consider <URL> If you are staying in Buenos Aires for a considerable time you will save money with the <URL> card . I am not sure about the requirements for foreigners though .
<URL> offers cash passports : You can choose to pick up your currency in one of our many stores or have it delivered directly to your door . It covers many of the major currencies , including Japanese YEN . <URL> You can buy at their counters in most major international airports , or online in advance .
One option would be to bring cash with you , convert it to Iranian currency and then buy something called " Gift Card " from a bank . You can easily obtain them from most of the well-known banks without having an account . You can use these cards to buy stuff almost anywhere within the country . They are also password protected and only the owner can use them . In case you lose them or get them stolen , you can contact the issuing bank to block the missing card and get another one . This is just one of the ways that can help you avoid carrying money . There might be other ways too :) Update : A new card <URL> called Tourist Card : Bank Melli , Iran 's first national bank , plans to issue a debit card exclusively for foreign tourists visiting the country . Issued under the title ' Tourist Card ' , visitors can apply for the charge card at the Bank Melli branch of Imam Khomeini International Airport , said a report in Tehran Times . With all charges converted and billed in the local currency , the card limit will be set at $ 5,000 or $ 5,000 . The tourist card will be valid for the length of stay of the visitors and any remaining money in the card will be reimbursed , the report said . The card can be used at the issuing bank 's ATM 's across the country as well at points of sale ( POS ) and online shopping . The bank plans to issue the cards in more than four Iranian cities , which are yet to be determined , the report said . And <URL> the official website of Iran Melli Bank , which has fully introduced this new card : It is a card in Iranian Rial which is issued for tourists against foreign currencies received from them with designated expiry date and it can be used in whole Iranian banking system . A Tourist Card is given to clients with exclusive passwords . There are two passwords for each card . First password is to be used when the card is used to buy by POS and the second password is used for internet buying . Both passwords can be changed by the holder of the card . Specifications of Tourist Card : It can be used through whole Iranian banking system Cash can be withdrawn only in BMI ATMs . Funds can not be transferred to Tourist Card Cards can be used to buy through internet , their passwords can be changed and funds can be transferred from Tourist Card to other cards . The remaining cash in Tourist Cards can be converted to foreign currencies and paid to customers . The expiry date of Tourist Card will be the date when clients ' visas are expired . The limit of charging these cards in $ 5,000 Customers can be informed about the remaining balance of Tourist Cards through Bank Melli Iran 's website ( www.bmi.ir ) , all ATMs throughout the country and all POS systems . Customers can take billing statements and be informed about the breakdown of their Tourist Card transactions in BMI ATMs .
There are 3 major carriers in Argentina Claro , Movistar and Personal All three offer prepaid cards you can buy on literally hundred of shops around the city ( I am not sure were in Buenos Aires you are going , but if you are traveling to Capital Federal , then you will find shops on the streets , on every shopping mall , and big movie complex . There are some impromptu sidewalk shops across big avenues , but the discount you will get with them is not worth it ) . The first thing they will sell you is the chip ( SIM ) which is around $ 30 ( $ 6 USD ) . Once the number is activated , which is instantly , you can charge your new number on any kiosk around the city . You will see signs with a legend like ( " Cargamos Personal/Movistar/Claro " ) . You will be asked for your number and the amount you want to charge and they will send you the credit instantly.You should receive an SMS confirmation with your new credit . You will have to pay with cash on most of the Kiosks . If you want to use a CC go to a branded store or use the online option at the official website for the carrier . <URL> / <URL> / <URL> Make sure to ask the seller for current " deals " . Quite often you will find 2x1 on all your credit ( You will get $ 200 for $ 100 ) or unlimited SMS for 1 day , or free 500 SMS . All three companies currently offer unlimited 3G for $ 1 peso a day ( $ 0.20 USD ) . For Claro and Movistar ( and probably Personal ) you have free calls for clients of the same company . Prices will vary A LOT depending on your plan . Make sure to ask the person selling you the chip which one is more convenient . In Capital Federal is quite easy to find free WiFi . Almost every coffe shop , fast food chain or shopping mall will have open and free spots . Finally if you are visiting Argentina with United States Dollars or Euros remember there is a huge differente between the official price and the paralel valuation . $ 1USD can either be $ 4.90 pesos or $ 7.50 pesos depending which market you trade . Hope it helps !
The City of Munich operates a number of indoor ( and outdoor ) swimming pools in and around Munich . These pools are invariably fitted out with changing rooms and showers . There is no need to go swimming if you only want to use the shower , but you will still have to pay the entrance fee . You can peruse a list at <URL> . As for ' reasonable fee ' , swimming pools usually charge about EUR 5 to EUR 10 , depending upon location and facilities available ( e.g. , sauna ) .
<URL> quotes 1100 pesos ( 127USD ) as the minimum , and links to the bus company website . So I guess it depends on the day of travel / purchase .
end question
start question
What exactly does " nights " means when you book ? Is it number of night you are going to sleep , or simply days you are going to stay ?
Counting Nights Accommodation bookings count the nights you spend simply because that 's what you need accommodation for : to sleep . This is based on the somewhat valid assumption that your main night time activity is sleeping . I understand where the confusion might arise from between day and night counts . Because nights are interposed between days you think you are staying for 1 day more . However consider that usually check-in time is in the afternoon and check-out is in the morning so effectively you are occupying the accommodation for the exact numbers of hours ( computed as ) you booked it for . To this purpose consider a realistic 3 night booking with check-in at 3pm and checkout at 11am . Total booking time is which is . Your 7-Night Reservation You say you plan on arriving on the 1st December and leaving on the 8th of December . That equates to a booking of 7 nights . Since you mention an arrival time of 10am , the actual check-in time depends on the hotel/hostel . Most of these usually check guests in in the afternoon , to leave time between check-outs to clean the rooms . Check-out times tend to be before noon , for the same exact reason . To be sure , ask the hotel for specific check-in and check-out times . However , if you arrive before your room is ready you can most definitely ask for them to keep your luggage whilst you go to the nearest pub for a good old English breakfast . This should be a free service . As mentioned in the comments below , if you desperately need the room for 10am because you want to shower/sleep then you might have to book for an extra night ( the one between the 30th November and 1st December ) . If you do so make sure you tell the hotel you will be arriving on the 1st rather than on the 30th , to ensure they do n't consider it a no-show and cancel your booking ( most probably after charging you for the whole amount nonetheless ) .
In general , no , you do n't have to , particularly if you 're just looking for a bed for one night , and are n't terribly picky . That said , the later you choose to pull off the road - particularly in peak travel season - the more likely you are to be greeted by that dreaded " No Vacancy " sign . ( Or , in nicer establishments , a polite refusal at the front desk . ) My typical MO when driving long distances , is to pull off the road at a rest stop or town about 2-3 hours before I intend to stop driving for the day ; ( in my case , this is usually right around the time the sun is getting low enough in the sky to blind me if I 'm driving west , so I can wait it out ; otherwise , around Sunset . ) Then , I 'll use my Smartphone ( or , if I 'm running low tech for some reason , a payphone at a rest stop and a map ) , to look up hotels that are about ~ 100 miles further along the road from where I am , and book a room online before continuing my drive . This gives me the flexibility to book same day for wherever I end up , while avoiding the occasional frustration of showing up at 9 PM to no rooms for 50 miles in any direction on a Friday night , followed by sleeping in the car in a parking lot ( it 's happened to me . It sucks . ) . All of the major US chains have pretty decent mobile sites that are geared towards exactly this sort of use . I find the IHG ( Holiday Inn et al ) , and Best Western apps are particularly good for looking a little bit ahead along a highway . YMMV . Keep in mind that in some cases , booking further in advance can give you access to better pricing or promotions , but you give up flexibility to do so .
To the best of the information available it should . The <URL> does accept New York Pass as a ticket option as it is listed on their site . And if you click on <URL> it will give you an option to reserve seating on either the Battery Park Ferry or on the Liberty Park Ferry . You can also see the same mentioned in their <URL> which allows you to enter from one side and leave to the other . Though I would question the wisdom of buying a New York Pass and going to Liberty Park in NJ to go to the Statue of Liberty or Ellis Island .
It is n't really the airline 's decision to choose which travel document you travel on . Yes , we all know for instance that you should enter the USA on the US passport ( by law -- if you have one ) , but should you enter the UK on your US passport or your Greek passport ? The document you use will depend on the purpose of your visit , and your own circumstances . And although we can advise which might be more convenient for most cases , it certainly is not the job of the airline to make that guess . Second , some people ( including airport check in staff who should know better ) assume that you can only have one passport , and that in possessing two you must be breaking some rule [ even if you are n't ] . If you have multiple passports issued by the same country , it 's even worse . Since the airline staff ( or contractors ) then do n't know which passport to enter in the system , or whether they are supposed to report this ( ! ) or something ridiculous , it can cause delays when they go away to find out from a supervisor or the station manager . So actually it 's probably better to turn up at each desk knowing which passport to hand over .
As far as I can tell , there are no practical solution that would be much cheaper than USD 200 . The two fully legal possibilities to stay longer than I know of are : Applying for a Swedish long-stay visa . You could qualify for a <URL> or <URL> ( WHV ) . It 's unlikely to be practical for 10 days because of visa fees and delays but the WHV could allow you to stay for an entire year relatively easily . Getting an extension of the Schengen visa-free stay or " limited territorial validity " visa . Those do exist but most likely wo n't be available to you as they are restricted to force majeure or humanitarian reasons . Other ways to plan this trip without paying for the more expensive flight could be : Traveling out of the Schengen area . Going for a week to Croatia , the UK , Turkey or any other destination outside the area at some point during your stay in Sweden ( not necessarily at the end of the trip ) would reduce the day count and make sure <URL> . With low cost airlines and cheap accommodation it could come close to USD 200 . You would not actually extend your stay in Sweden but it could fit in your trip , with a nice holiday somewhere else to boot . Flying from somewhere else like Copenhagen ( connecting by train ) or even further afield like Frankfurt or Amsterdam ( perhaps going there by bus ) to find a cheap flight earlier . See also <URL> ( about the Netherlands , not Sweden ) and <URL> ( US citizen in Germany ) .
According to <URL> : If you do n't have photos you will be asked to pay a small fee ( few dollars ) for scanning your photograph from your passport , and placing it onto your visa application form . Another opinion from <URL> : passport photo is/may be required ( although you may be able to pay a US$ 1 " fee " to have this requirement waived ) - recently ( June 2013 ) passport photos were not asked for ( at Friendship Bridge ) .
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
Per stay means no matter how many nights . That said , people who are close to a threshold for number of stays ( and who travel light ) have been known to book two hotels in the same city and move back and forth between them each day to get 5 separate stays out of a 5-night trip . It 's annoying to check in and out like that and I would n't do it for 250 more miles a day , but that 's what it would take .
It is , in my experience , either mandatory or forbidden , never optional . On a flight from JFK to JNB , we stopped in Dakkar . Some people left the plane because that was their destination . Then security came on , did a quick search of the empty seats , new people got on , insecticide was sprayed , and we left . On a flight LAX-SYD-Melbourne , everybody had to get off and the Melbourne people were told to stay in the gate area to line up and reboard . Also to take all their stuff with them . Keeping track of who left the plane and who did n't would be a nightmare . Even the Dakkar experience seemed suboptimal to me .
By default , yes . There are a few cases where you might not : the company has some sort of flight pass . Some of those passes accrue miles only by being bought , not by being used the company got you a ticket by redeeming miles or the like - reward tickets do n't earn miles the company booked and bought a super cheap fare that does n't earn miles If the fare earns miles , you 'll be the one who earns them . Make sure your number is recorded ( when you check in , ask the person to make sure it 's there and add it if it 's not ) and you 'll be all set . Most Frequent Flyers earned their status with tickets their employers and clients paid for .
Contact AAdvantage and request original routing credit due to your involuntary rerouting . Provide scans of your new boarding passes , your PNR and ticket number , and a short description of what happened . It is very likely AA will credit you for RDMs and EQMs as a goodwill gesture for the cancellation , although you may not receive segment , e500 , or specal promotion credit for the flight . This is one of the extremely rare cases where it is possible to double-dip . You can request your new flights to be credited to US Airways ( or another Star Alliance carrier , such as United ) , and receive those in addition to the AAdvantage miles . Of course , since AA and US Airways are merging , if you can keep the US Airways account alive for another year and a half or so , you can merge miles from both accounts into the new program as well .
There do n't appear to be any ski hills in Georgia , however , <URL> . I 've never been to any of them , though .
Your colleague is correct . <URL> : A JAPAN RAIL PASS can not be purchased inside Japan . You must purchase an Exchange Order from an authorized sales office or agent before you come to Japan .
If you are caught with smaller amounts of alcohol exceeding the allowed amount , the customs will offer you to accept a " forenklet forelegg " , a kind of fixed rate fine used in the Norwegian legal system for minor issues , e.g. traffic violations or breach of the custom regulations . For beverages with 22.1 to 60 % alcohol by volume , the rates are as such : up to 1 litre more than the allowed amount : 400 NOK ( 48 $ ) up to 2 litres : 800 NOK ( 96 $ ) up to 3 litres : 1600 NOK ( 192 $ ) up to 4 litres : 2500 NOK ( 300 $ ) up to 5 litres : 3400 NOK ( 409 $ ) For beverages with 7.1 to 22 % alcohol by volume , the rates are the same , but the limits are doubled , e.g. 400 NOK for up to 2l too much , 800 NOK for up to 4l too much , etc. . For beverages with 2.5 to 7 % alcohol by volume , the amount are ten times higher , e.g. 400 NOK for up to 10l too much , 800 NOK for up to 20l too much , etc. . For beverages with less than 2.5 % alcohol , there are no special customs regulations in Norway . Beverages with more than 60 % alcohol are generally prohibited and attempting to smuggle such beverages with be punishable similar to smuggling of drugs and controlled substances . There are similar fixed rate fines defined for exceeding the allowed amounts of cigarettes , tobacco , meat , fuel and exceeding the value limit for other goods . A complete list can be found in Norwegian <URL> . If you exceed the allowed amounts in multiple categories , the fixed rate fines ( forenklet forelegg ) will be added up to 8000 NOK ( 961 $ ) . If the accumulated fixed fines exceed 8000 NOK or you exceed the amounts in the fixed fine list within any of the categories , the customs will hand you over to the police and demand a legal proceeding , in which you will be fined by a court . If you deny or refuse to accept the " forenklet forelegg " , the customs will also commence a legal proceeding and you will be judged by a court . If the issue is resolved with a " forenklet forelegg " , you are allowed to keep the allowed amount of alcohol , but the exceeding amount will be confiscated . So to answer your specific question , if you are caught with 10l of beer ( with somewhere between 2.5 and 7 % alcohol ) and do n't bring any other alcoholic beverages , you are allowed to bring 5l and have exceeded that amount by 5l . According to the law , if you accept the " forenklet forelegg " , you will be fined 400 NOK , 5l of beer will be confiscated and you may keep the 5l of the allowed amount . In reality , it is not unlikely that you ( at least for such a small violation ) will only get an oral reprimand and be waved through .
Well I can be evil and if people complain , I call them insensitive because I ( genuinely ) have no sense of smell ;) However , logically you do have a few options : hand-wash - a wash-cloth and some soap goes a long way , and for some reason even though the water is cold , it 's never as bad as stepping under a cold shower . deodorant , lots of it . make sure you have clean ( or your closest-to-clean ) clothes on , minimising the risk of odour , and still helping you to feel fresh . wet-wipes / baby wipes . It 's slow , but hey , if it works ... do what our salt-flats tour group did in Uyuni - made a group pact to not shower , so that nobody had to deal with the ice-cold water ( ! )
The contents of the main page in a passport is dictated by standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) , specifically the Machine Readable Travel Documents standard ( <URL> ) . This document states that all passport photos should meet the following requirements : Pose 1.1 . The photograph should be less than six months old . 1.2 . It should show a close up of the head and shoulders . 1.3 . The photograph should be taken so that an imaginary horizontal line between the centres of the eyes is parallel to the top edge of the picture . 1.4 . The face should be in sharp focus and clear with no blemishes such as ink marks , pen , pin , paper clip , staples , folds , dents , or creases . 1.5 . The photograph should show the subject facing square on and looking directly at the camera with a neutral expression and the mouth closed . 1.6 . The chin to crown ( crown is the position of the top of the head if there were no hair ) shall be 70 -80 % of the vertical height of the picture . 1.7 . The eyes must be open and there must be no hair obscuring them . 1.8 . If the subject wears glasses , the photograph must show the eyes clearly with no lights reflected in the glasses . The glasses shall not have tinted lenses . Avoid heavy frames if possible and ensure that the frames do not cover any part of the eyes . Sunglasses can not be worn or appear on the person 's head . 1.9 . Coverings , hair , headdress , hats , scarfs , head bands , bandanas or facial ornamentation which obscure the face , are not permitted ( except for religious or medical reasons . In all cases , the person 's full facial features from bottom of chin to top of forehead and both edges of the face must be clearly visible ) . 1.10 . The photograph must have a plain light coloured background . 1.11 . There must be no other people , chair back , or objects in the photograph . Lighting , Exposure , and Colour Balance 2.1 . The lighting must be uniform with no shadows or reflections on the face , eye-glasses or in the background . 2.2 . The subject 's eyes must not show red eye . 2.3 . The photograph must have appropriate brightness and contrast . 2.4 . Where the picture is in colour , the lighting , and photographic process must be colour balanced to render skin tones faithfully . Submission of Portrait to the Issuing Authority Where the portrait is supplied to the Issuing Authority in the form of a print , the photograph , whether produced using conventional photographic or digital techniques , should be on good or photo-quality paper . Compliance with International Standards 4.1 . The photograph shall comply with the appropriate definitions set out in ISO/IEC 1974 -- 5 . The last of the points above is probably the most important as far as " why " - <URL> defines standards for Biometric data interchange formats , with part 5 specifically being Face image data . According to the ISO/IEC 19794 documents : To enable many applications on variety of devices , including devices that have the limited resources required for data storage , and to improve face recognition accuracy , this part of ISO/IEC 19794 specifies not only a data format , but also scene constraints ( lighting , pose , expression , etc. ) , photographic properties ( positioning , camera focus , etc. ) , digital image attributes ( image resolution , image size , etc. ) .
The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : All foreigners , required or not to obtain a short stay visa , who wish to enter France must have a 30.000 Euros health insurance that covers all Schengen territory . " Strange that the same requirement is not mentioned in the <URL> . The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : To reduce risks or delays in the border it is advisable to : Hire an international insurance , valid for Europe during the period of stay in the Schengen territory with a coverage of at least $ 30.000,00 for medical or hospital expenses . Even though it is not mandatory for entrance in the Netherlands , some other countries in the Schengen territory require this insurance . Additionally , I looked a few other ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) embassies sites in Brazil and none of them mention the health insurance requirement Besides that , it is common sense in Brazil that a Brazilian who wish to travel to Europe , must have this 30.000 EUR health insurance . For instance , credit cards like <URL> or <URL> advise that they will give such insurance if the airline tickets are bought using the credit card . A few travel forums and sites like <URL> ( backpackers ) or <URL> ( talking about travel ) also mention the need to have such health insurance . All in all , it 's hard to say if the health insurance is really mandatory or no . Evidences suggest it is not for brazilians , besides the common sense , but I just ca n't be sure .
I 've done this all over the world without incident . Just make sure your devices are ok with the voltage coming from the wall , and that you 're not throwing away grounding protection by using a two prong adapter instead of one with a grounding strip . To check voltages , I use <URL> . In your case Spain and the UK are on the same voltage , so that 's not an issue . This kind of adapter for Spain : is not grounded . If you use this to plug in the power strip , the devices wo n't have grounding ( earthing ) protection . This kind of adapter for Spain : is grounded ( though you need a different face on it for a UK plug instead of a US one . ) These larger ones are better for plugging in a power strip .
things I do occasionally with my towel while traveling : fold it to a pillow at night , or cover any ( stained ) pillows i encounter in cheap hostels/motels place wet clothes on one half , then wrap the other half over it and sleep on it , and the clothes should be dry next morning as a beach towel group loose or dirty/wet items together in your backpack fold it a couple of times and rest my arm on it while driving ( the armrest in my car door vibrates too much ) cover the steering wheel while you park your car in the sun , so it wo n't get hot use it as blanket so you wo n't get sunburn make it wet and wrap it around your neck if you go hiking in summer strangle the noisy , drunk backpacker who walks into the dorm at 3am , yelling , slamming doors and waking everyone up or i just dry myself after a shower with it
I did n't want to just provide anecdotal notes , but since Mark Mayo encouraged it here are some -- I 've been to several weddings in the Philippines and I 've heard about many more . The short answer to your question is : it varies . Wildly . A lot of what the Wikipedia page says can happen , but none of it is guaranteed -- weddings are really up to the couple , their family and are often bound by how much money they have . Weddings may be in a church , a resort , a hotel or on a beach , etc. . Similarly the reception may be in the same place , or a different place an hours drive away . There are some pointers I can give you -- for what it 's worth Mark 's advice is excellent . Dress Code Dress smart , you will be OK with a little less formal than you might do for a western wedding -- and remember it 's hot and humid here so you 'll be more comfortable . Philippine men wear a <URL> , you 'll be fine not wearing one and should n't worry about it unless you really want to or you 've been asked specifically to wear one . A white shirt , with smart trousers and nice shoes is fine -- I tend to wear a tie because I think it 's appropriate but you 'll get away without one in all but the most formal weddings . Jacket is optional -- chances are you 'll be too hot with it on . Ceremony If it 's a catholic ceremony it 'll likely be like many others , with slight differences here or there . It 'll likely be on the long side , and depending what they do there are parts where you 're supposed to do or say something particular . You 'll be able to pick it up easily enough and it 's likely to be a lot less uptight and rigid than you might expect . Traditions/Gifts I 'm assuming you 're not part of the ceremony , bear in mind that there 's an extended group of ' sponsors ' who are involved . If you are one you 'll be told what to do , but you 'll probably be expected to give some money to the family ( in a sealed envelope normally , someone will probably point out the right time ) . Otherwise any normal gift is fine , including a card with cash which will be greatly appreciated and is n't frowned upon as it is in some places . Local currency please , whatever you 're comfortable with , do n't go overboard . There may or may not be speeches . Do n't expect anything like the traditional western format of father , best man , groom ( is that the order ? ) , more likely a few people will say some words . Speeches may or may not be in Tagalog , most likely they 'll be in a hybrid of Tagalog and English ( Taglish ) . Reception Receptions can be quite basic , there will be food , there may or may not be alcohol . Food might be catered , brought by guest pot-luck style or cooked by the family . It 'll likely be buffet style . If you 're lucky ( and can eat pork ) there 'll be <URL> -- if it 's a buffet head for that first , everyone else will . Food is a good point -- if you have dietary restrictions you need to let the family know and possibly be prepared to eat in advance . Purely vegetarian dishes are rare ( dishes may be only vegetable but there 's likely meat in any stock ) . Similarly some common western allergies are just not common here and so are n't catered for . Some receptions end after the food but you say it 's a party -- so expect music and dancing . Expect a lot of cameras and picture taking . Possibly a roving video guy asking for soundbites from guests . Just relax and enjoy . Nobody will judge you . People will make an effort to talk to you and find out more about you . Everyone will appreciate the effort you made to travel . I ca n't think of anything you could do that would offend anyone accidentally . A few other things you may want to consider : Timing -- depending how far you have to go make sure you have enough time . Traffic can be pretty bad and it can easily take you three times longer than it looks like it should . Arrive early , but expect things to run late . Make sure you know how you 're getting between the two places if necessary . Weather -- it 's rainy season now , it almost certainly will rain at some point every day . And it 'll rain a lot . If there 's any chance you 'll be caught outside have an umbrella with you . Mosquitoes -- again if you 'll be outside consider wearing and taking insect repellent . I would n't worry so much about disease but they 're annoying as hell if they take a liking to you .
end question
start question
Will I Need a Transit visa or ESTA for the US as a Canadian ?
Good news - as a Canadian citizen , you 're a member of one of the few groups that do n't need visas for the US . From the <URL> : Note : ESTA is not required for citizens of Canada . On 12 January 2009 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) introduced ESTA , the Electronic System for Travel Authorization . This online system is part of the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and all nationals or citizens of VWP countries -- excluding Canada -- who plan to travel to the United States for 90 days or less for temporary business or pleasure under the VWP need to receive an electronic travel authorization prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or cruise ship . So you 'll be fine travelling through the US on the way to Germany ! Enjoy your trip .
You do n't need to apply for a visa in advance to enter the UK with a Nicaraguan passport , as long as your period of stay is less than six months , <URL> . However , the length of the visa issued on arrival is at the discretion of the immigration official who processes you at border control .
I have n't been able to find anything on the South Africa site , but the South African embassy in Australia has <URL> : Transit Visa Requirements Visa restricted passport holders who want to transit South Africa to any one of South Africa 's neighbouring countries , MUST apply for a transit visa . The neighbouring countries are Botswana , Lesotho , Mozambique , Namibia , Swaziland and Zimbabwe . Passport holders who want to transit a South African port of entry enroute to any other country , may do so without the need to apply for a transit visa . I found the same statement on a South African Airlines website .
I am afraid there is no temporary ( nonimmigrant ) visa that allows you to be a tourist and work at the same time ( except for H-1B , H-2B ) , and by work I mean getting paid by any US employer . As a Dutch citizen , you can enter under the visa waiver program which allows you enter for tourism/business/medical reasons only . You will not be allowed to work . To work in the US temporarily you need to have a H-1B visa , to obtain that you need to have a job offer from a US employer . If you managed to get that then you are allowed to work with this employer only and changing the employer is another story . So I do not think this fits your needs . Regarding WWOOF , their page makes it clear that <URL> . Anyway , since WWOOF is not a paid work neither volunteering it will be ok to become a WWOOFer with your tourist visa , according to their website : WWOOF is an opportunity to visit farms affiliated with our network for a cultural and educational exchange . Most people outside the United States who come WWOOFing use a holiday or tourist visa . Although many of the hosts on our network are associated with organic lifestyles and sustainability , it is important to note that persons associated with WWOOF-USA are travelers experiencing a wide variety of sustainable living situations and are not " workers " or " working " for wages or other remuneration in the United States . Bottom line , you need to change your plans a little , removing the " working in restaurants " part will make your trip possible and legal with a tourist visa , other option would be obtaining an immigrant visa which takes time and not as easy as nonimmigrant visa . For more information : <URL> .
U.S. citizens can visit Japan without a visa anyway , so there 's certainly no need to get one for transiting . Regarding the second part of your question , you do n't have to pass through immigration at Narita on an international-to-international connection . From <URL> : When connecting between international flights , passengers are not required to undergo Immigration procedures if they are staying in the departure area ( airside ) until their next flight . The page linked above also contains instructions for how to transit from one international flight at Narita to another with instructions specific to each of Narita 's three terminals . You should probably figure out which terminals your arriving and departing flights will likely use and read through that guide . In short , though , the transfer process is this : After exiting the aircraft , follow the signs for " international transfer . " Go through transfer security . This will be similar to the normal security checks you go through to board a flight , though you might want to look up the specific rules for what Japan allows when passing through security checks , as these may differ somewhat from the U.S. Note that you will need to show a boarding pass or a ticket for your onward flight in order to pass through transfer security . If you do n't already have a boarding pass for your connecting flight , go to one of the transfer desks for your airline to check in and get it . If your departing flight leaves from a different terminal than where you arrived , you 'll need to take a shuttle bus to your departing terminal . The timetables for these busses can be accessed via the link above . These busses are specifically for transit passengers and will depart and arrive inside the airside portion of the terminals , so you will not need to pass through immigration or security again after getting off the bus . Proceed to your departure gate .
I ca n't find a Costa Rican source for this , but according to TIMATIC , it is possible to transit without a visa if the onward flight is within twelve hours of the arrival . Alternatively , the traveler is excluded from the visa requirement if she holds certain visas of other countries , including the EU . Her US visa wo n't help with this because it is a transit visa , but whatever documents she had to enable her to travel in Europe might .
I 've lived in Calgary and Toronto , so I can speak generally about Canada . In larger cities ( i.e. Toronto , Montreal , Vancouver ) , USD is sometimes acceptable at shops near the airport or in tourist areas , although you wo n't get a good rate . In cities like Winnipeg , Calgary , Edmonton , do n't expect that USD will be acceptable anywhere but at the airport . Your best bet would be to convert some of your money to CAD while in Winnipeg .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
No , you do n't need any other visa . You would not get one if you tried to apply for it . On the other hand , your point of entry is indeed Germany , it 's not even something that 's a matter of interpretation . You will go through a passport check and get an entry there , at which point there is nothing physically stopping you from leaving the airport and driving through several countries if you want to . That 's the way airport are setup everywhere in the Schengen area . But allowing you to enter a country with a visa issued by another one is the whole point of the Schengen regulations ( or at least one of its cornerstones ) . It 's by no means mandatory to have a visa from every Schengen country you intend to visit ( what would be the point of a common visa policy if it were the case ? ) nor even from the country you are entering first ( as the rule is very clear : you have to apply to your main destination , not to the country of first entry ) . In some very specific cases , showing up somewhere unexpected with a visa from another country can raise questions about the truthfulness of your application and your real intentions but in your situation , transiting through a major hub with a multiple-entry visa and a ticket to somewhere else , that 's extremely unlikely to be a concern .
In short : Come to the airport early , security checks will take longer . You should expect a longer and more serious security check before your departure and after your landing , including questioning about your whereabouts and activities in Iran or Kuwait . If you just visited there , this should be it - your entrance is very highly unlikely to be refused . Predictive Profiling 101 : Why are you being checked ? Unlike some other Middle Eastern countries , Israel does not ban or punish tourists who have visited certain countries in the past . This is a security measure , based on <URL> often used by <URL> . This means that the passenger 's personal details are aggregated , and if they fit into a presumably dangerous profile , the passenger is thoroughly questioned prior to boarding . This method is based on hundreds of variables ( age , nationality , purpose of travel , ... ) , it 's arbitrary and unpredictable by nature , so nobody knows know if Iranian stamp will raise more questions than a Kuwait stamp . Further notes Do n't lie or hide details . Lying will probably get you into longer questioning , and you 're more likely to get banned . Questions might get nosy and personal . The terminals for Israeli ( and US ) flights are often remote and isolated , especially in European airports . Taking a special in-airport bus to an unmarked terminal is not unusual . Do really come early . For further reading about the roots and disputes about Predictive Profiling , you can also read about <URL> and the <URL> , which are taught in security courses in Israel . This is not a political statement , just the viewpoint of the security official . On a last personal note , I envy you a little ! Iran is supposed to be a truly beautiful country , a mixture of Asian and Middle Eastern geography . I hope I can visit it as a tourist , one day soon .
You are an EU national living in the UK and want to sponsor your cousin for a short visit . Your cousin is an Indian national who is working in Oman . From Paragraph 24 of the rules , your cousin will need an entry clearance . In order to be successful , he will need to clear all of the points listed in Paragraph 41 of the rules . See <URL> Your cousin should apply on-line as a GENERAL VISITOR . Near the end of the application , he will answer some questions about making a biometrics appointment at a facility in Oman . Once the appointment is booked , he will see a page of information on what to do next . If you are lawfully in the UK and have the financial capacity along with an acceptable level of credibility , you can participate in the application process by offering to help . Because cousins do not have the degree of relationship needed to qualify as family , your cousin will be treated as a FRIEND , and they will need a pretty clear understanding of why you want to do this . For example , do you normally sponsor your cousins in the same way ? What 's special about this particular point in time ? With this background information , your cousin should start by opening an account and going through the application rigmarole at <URL>
Per the <URL> , Egyptian citizens generally do need a visa to transit either landside or <URL> in London but can be exempted in some cases . Travelling to the US is one of those cases , having an EEA residence permit is another one . You might be eligible for the ' transit without visa concession ' if : you arrive and depart by air have a confirmed onward flight which leaves within 24 hours have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : [ ... ] you have a valid uniform format residence permit issued by an EEA state The first three conditions must be fulfilled to qualify , which seems to be the case for you . Your Greek residence permit gives you the right to enter Italy as both countries are part of the Schengen area ( I am assuming you have a <URL> , if not then this answer might not apply ) . But you only need to fulfill one of the other conditions in the list ( in fact , it seems impossible to fulfill them all ) and you told us that you do fulfill one of them ( namely having a residence permit by an EEA state , as Greece is indeed a member of the EEA ) . So flying to Italy instead of the US should not be a problem if you fulfill the other relevant conditions . That said , asking the embassy or even applying for a visa can not hurt if you want to be absolutely sure ( the visa does cost something ) . You can also ask your airline , as they will want to check your visa status before carrying you to the UK .
The hospital will want to verify your ability to pay before admitting you . And as your insurance provider is outside the country , they would likely want a local representative to confirm payment services are available within the country . A fair number of " travel insurance " issuers work through just a few actual coverage underwriters . And the bigger underwriters maintain offices in major countries around the world . So knowing who actually underwrites the insurance coverage and their local office number could help in the situation you encountered . But having the phone number is not a guarantee , as some travel insurance policies do require you to pay up front and be reimbursed by filing a claim afterwards . In terms of being refused admittance due to lack of a means of payment , this depends on the nature of your visit . As Choster mentioned hospitals have a mandate to provide primary medical care in an emergency , but this applies primarily to life threatening emergencies . A private hospital can refer less serious cases to the regional public hospital where indigent care is provided .
I think ESTA counts as a permit . I doubt you will be able to establish otherwise with any degree of certainty . In that light , you should certainly disclose the denial . In other words , err on the side of caution . I suspect that Canada will not be terribly concerned about the reason for your denial , but if you answer " no " and they find out about your denied ESTA -- which they probably will -- then you risk a serious loss to your credibility and possibly serious difficulty with future visa applications .
Canada has two programs for transiting without visa between the U.S. and third countries : <URL> , applies to nationals of Indonesia , Thailand , Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , and the Philippines . <URL> , applies to nationals of the People 's Republic of China . For both programs , you need to have a valid U.S. visa , arrive in Canada on certain approved airlines , transit through Vancouver or Toronto terminal 1 , and for China Transit Program transiting to the U.S. , you need to arrive from certain cities . From your comments , you say that it is for a Romanian and a Chinese national . The Chinese national could use the China Transit Program if they meet the above requirements . The Romanian national is out of luck ; Romania also does n't have visa waiver access to Canada , so will need a transit visa . In reality , you only need to go through Canadian immigration when transiting from the U.S. to a third country . When transiting from a third country to the U.S. , you never go through Canadian immigration -- you directly go through U.S. immigration pre-clearance ( unless you arrive outside its operating hours ) , so in that case you may be able to get away with not having a Canadian transit visa , even though the rules say you need it ( if the airline lets you on the plane in the first place that is ) .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
Unlike many other countries , US airports do not have any form of physical immigration controls when you are departing the country on an international flight . In fact , in most airports there is n't even a concept of an " International " terminal/gate , with the same gates frequently being used for international flights and domestic flights . As a result of this they ca n't enforce the concept of a ' transit ' passenger - once you 're in the departure area , even if you got there on the pretext of catching another international flight out of the country a few hours later , there 's nothing to stop you boarding a different domestic flight , or even simply walking out of the airport ! This means that ALL passengers arriving on international flights in the US must have the legal right to enter the US ; i.e , you must either be a US citizen/green card holder , be from a country that is a part of the US Visa Waiver Program and have a valid <URL> , or have a US Visa . If you require a Visa then there is a <URL> available which is normally a little easier to obtain than a normal visa , but you 'll still need to go through the full visa application process , including showing proof that you intend to leave the US ( almost ) immediately .
If you travel from USA to Brazil , you will need both passports - the US one to leave the USA ( <URL> ) and the Colombian one to enter Brazil . Certainly you will have to show the airline your Colombian passport to proof that you 're allowed to enter Brazil . The only thing you must keep in mind about dual citizenship is that , if you go to Brazil on your Colombian passport , in case of an emergency , the US Embassy may not give you diplomatic protection since you are a Colombian citizen in Brazil . From <URL> : In addition , their dual nationality may hamper efforts to provide U.S. diplomatic and consular protection to them when they are abroad , especially when they are in the country of their second nationality .
The proposed change does n't affect you or your wife , and she wo n't need a visa . The <URL> allows citizens of certain countries to visit the US without getting a visa or any other form of authorization . It is n't what your wife has been using ; she can enter the US any time , because she already has a different form of authorization : a green card , which avoids any need for a visa . The VWP is unrelated to permanent residency , and I have n't heard of any proposed changes to the permanent resident program . Anyway , Iran is not one of the countries included in the VWP , which is another reason why your wife has n't been using it up until now , and why any changes to it would n't affect her .
end question
start question
Where/how can I find a listing of prices for in-flight WiFi usage on Qatar Airways ?
According to <URL> ( screenshots of the signup page available ) , the prices are : For Laptops 20MB for $ 10 USD 50MB for $ 18 USD Full Flight for $ 22 For Mobile 12MB for $ 5 USD 5MB for $ 2 USD 3 Hours for $ 10 USD It is worth mentioning that the blog owner had a bad experience using the onboard wifi as most of the requests were timed out and pages were not loading . I personally had better experiences in other airlines using this service . So , I guess it totally depends on the strength of the Inmarsat satellite 's signal .
Answering my own question because this took a lot of legwork : We found precisely two insurers who cover travel beyond 26 weeks . ( Only for uncomplicated births : no multiples ( twins ) , no IVF . ) <URL> offers coverage up to 36 weeks in some countries . However , if you 're based in Australia , <URL> , and that requires an expensive " Pregnancy Extension Option " that pushed the insurance price to over $ 800 for 5 weeks ( ! ) . <URL> offers cover <URL> as a part of their standard policy , and will even provide a letter on request stating so ( handy for those US immigration authorities ) . They 're happy to insure residents of any country for travel to virtually any country , and while not cheap , at 323 euros the cost was still about half of what Columbus wanted . No prizes for guessing which one we went with ! Update : In the end , neither check-in nor US immigration noticed my wife is pregnant , and the birth occurred outside the US as well . So we never had to " test out " the insurance .
Hitchhiking in Greece is rare nowadays , but not so uncommon in islands and mountains ( between small villages ) . As another commenter said , there 's a popular belief amongst Greeks that it is illegal , but as far as I know this is n't true ( but might had been true for a period in the past , hence the myth ) . Turkish truck drivers are mostly found in Northern Greece , as RoflcoptrException said , usually traveling in <URL> ( official website , map available ) , the highway that connects the customs of Kipoi ( Κήποι ) / Ipsala to Igoumenitsa ( Ηγουμενίτσα ) . It is easy to identify them from their different <URL> . Between Igoumenitsa and Alexandroupoli there are very few truckstops and gas stations , around 8-10 as far as I remember , and I would say half of them between Thessaloniki and Alexandroupoli . Most of them have been available during the years 2011-2013 ( Egnatia is a fairly new highway and most of the truckstops are not yet depicted in Google Earth 's imagery ) and some of them are not yet open to the public . I 've been to most of them , and I 'm pretty confident that none is owned or at least predominated by Turkish drivers . But that does n't mean that you might not find some Turkish trucks in any of those truckstops . It is probable that you will . I 'm not sure if this is useful , but a place where you will ALWAYS find Turkish trucks resting , is the area between Kipoi and Ipsala customs ( between the borders ) . Please note that you can not pass the borders as a hitchhiker , you will have to pass by walking , and then enter to the truck .
If you ca n't find out anything on-line , just take some time when you get to Tokyo . Find the addresses of some schools and actually go there and hang around outside , then ask some of the students for their opinions as they come out for a break . I did this when I learned Spanish in Antigua ( Guatemala ) which is full of Spanish schools .
I found <URL> which , as the name implies , lists late trains in Sweden . The user interface should be fairly self-descriptive . You can specify destinations , time period ( what you are actually looking for ) and minimum late time . Not sure if you can export the data to perform statistical analysis ( if that 's what your thing ) , but there seems to be an <URL> in beta that spews out JSON . Documentation is in Swedish , though . Other possibilities are <URL> ( with an å in the domain name ) and <URL>
Yes , but it 's a bit fiddly . If , when you are booking , you are either logged in with a BAEC Silver or Gold membership active ( BAEC silver and gold get seat selection for free at the time of booking ) , or you are doing a ( not logged in ) search for a fully flexible ticket ( full fare tickets get free seat selection at the time of booking ) , then almost at the end of the booking process before entering your credit card details , it lets you pick a seat : At that point , bring up the seat selection tool , and see how many seats are free on that flight . If not enough , go back and pick a different flight . If so , go back and pick the fare class you really wanted to book on . Expect to take a minute or two per flight you check , by the time you get to that bit of the booking ! Remember that this will only show if you 're doing a search when logged in as a BAEC Silver or Gold ( other BAEC tiers or other OneWorld status wo n't work during the booking process ) , or when doing a fully-flexible search when not logged in . Otherwise , some travel agents can look it up , and they can also look up how busy the flight is in a general sense ( how many tickets for sale in each cabin in each fare class ) . If you care , it might be easier to get a good travel agent , ring them up , have them look at the loadings then book you onto the flight with the loading / seats you 're after .
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
A list of all the customs and import fees is available on the <URL> along with explanations , forms etc. . And <URL> is their guide for customs for tourists , including student visas ( In Hebrew ) . The guide specifies exactly what is exempt from fees , food is exempt for up to a total of 3 kg , as long as each kind of food does n't exceed 1 kg . The list of fees is available <URL> ( In Hebrew ) . Specifically for your question , the fees on " mixed food up to 15 kg " ( מזון מעורב עד 15 ק " ג ) are : 17 % for goods worth 75 $ -500 $ 17 % + 2.93 ILS for each kg for goods worth 500 $ -1000 $ " according to the imported item " for goods worth more than 1000 $ . * - 17 % is the VAT is Israel .
According to <URL> ( screenshots of the signup page available ) , the prices are : For Laptops 20MB for $ 10 USD 50MB for $ 18 USD Full Flight for $ 22 For Mobile 12MB for $ 5 USD 5MB for $ 2 USD 3 Hours for $ 10 USD It is worth mentioning that the blog owner had a bad experience using the onboard wifi as most of the requests were timed out and pages were not loading . I personally had better experiences in other airlines using this service . So , I guess it totally depends on the strength of the Inmarsat satellite 's signal .
According to <URL> and <URL> there is no visa on arrival for Thai citizens at any location including South Sinai airport ( which I am guessing refers to Sharm el-Sheikh ) . So even if the website you linked states otherwise you should consider <URL> as an authoritative source for the airline .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
Usually , depending on the country , an embassy or consulate is where you 'd go to , in order to obtain a visa . In your case , the nearest ( that I can find ) is the <URL> . 1233 West Loop South , Park Tower North , Suite 1150 Houston , TX 77027 (713) 961-3063 / 64/65 Fax : (713) 961-3070 E-mail : consbras@brazilhouston.org So they 'd be your most likely best bet for first point of call . For a rough idea of the documentation you 'll need to apply for your visa , have a look at the <URL> - they have a solid wall of information which will be of great use . If you 're really worried about the process , your travel agent would be able to help out with the whole thing . If you do n't have a travel agent , do n't worry , really , many of us apply for visas all the time , and while the wall of documents required sounds scary , as long as you follow the steps it 's actually pretty straightforward . Note that according to the Miami website , it can take 10-45 days to process depending on the method taken , so given you are travelling in March , I 'd get the ball moving on the whole process pretty soon .
As was explained in the comments : The way that all the airline booking systems work , it is not possible to have people on different booking ( fare ) classes on the same ticket . If you have two people on the same flights in the same booking classes , it 's fine . If you have two people on the same flights but different booking classes ( could be business and economy , or even just flexible vs non-flexible economy ) , then they must be on different tickets and PNRs . You therefore need to make two different bookings for you , one for the people in one booking class ( + cabin ) , one for the people on the same flight but in the other booking class . Your best bet in this case is to skip the internet , and talk to ( shock horror ! ) a person . Be that a travel agent , or the airline 's booking line , either should work . They will create the two itineraries for you , hold them while you confirm you 're happy and double check that everything else is the same , then ticket the two for you . They should also be able to attach notes to indicate the bookings are linked . Oh , and one thing to be aware of , because you 'll have two bookings , if there 's a problem with the flight and it gets cancelled , you will almost certainly have to speak with another human . Otherwise , you may find that you and your wife are re-routed one way , your kids another , because the automated re-booking system wo n't necessarily know to keep the two together because they 're on different bookings . Note that if by " mixed-class tickets " what you means was the more common " one way in economy , return in business " or something like that , then many ( but not all ) online flight booking systems will be able to sell you the ticket , as will the airline or a travel agent .
<URL> allows you to specify almost any conveivable trip combination . You can specify the cities or airports to fly through , the layover times , the airline alliance or airlines and even the aircraft that you 're willing to fly . Example : If you wish to fly from London to San Francisco via New York with a stopover in New York of more than 48 hours on the outbound , only on aircraft operated by American Airlines , you would use LON : :O : AA * / minconnect 2880 to SFO : :O : AA * If you 'd like to further specify your requirements , I 'm sure we could supply you with the options you would need to use .
A website of <URL> , marked on a map for your convenience ! :) ( the red markers have a low fee ; the green markers are free )
Nobody will be offended . It is a common practice among children to search for amber or shells . However I would not expect too much . Amber can be easily mistaken with other rocks and if you ever find something it would be rather of a small size . The beaches along the whole coast are easily accessible and I can hardly believe in the existence of hot spots .
First , make sure you are allowed to leave the airport with your passport/visa . Visa on arrival is available for many countries , but costs US$ 28 for 30 days . But that 's only certain countries , other ones are more complicated . <URL> is limited , but suggests the following sites : The Museum of Islamic Art , Doha Souq Waqif : the traditional old marketplace of Qatar . Has many good restaurants , especially at night time . Also sells many national products - bargaining is recommended . The Pearl : a man-made island connected to Doha by a bridge . You can find a big variety of restaurants and shops , mainly in the high range . Villaggio Mall : a spectacular Venetian style shopping mall with a canal and gondolas as well . A huge variety of shops from casual to luxury . Mathaf : The arab museum of modern art Katara : Cultural village which is home to many international and Arab restaurants , a beautiful beach , and holds many cultural events . Definitely a place to see . Aqua park : Aquatic Funfair . Personally I 'd see maybe one thing , do it properly , and then go hunt out strange foods and experiences . Middle Eastern cuisine is everywhere , and in many forms -- kebabs , breads , hummus , the list goes on . Do n't be afraid to venture into the Souqs looking for a meal ; it will be a unique experience in an authentic setting , and although some of the places you see may look rundown , that 's just the area in general , and the food will be probably be quite good . Be advised that many of the restaurants in the Souqs ( as well as the shops ) shut down during the afternoon hours . If you are in a funny kind of mood , you can try a McArabia -- McDonald 's Middle Eastern sandwich available only in the region . -- <URL> Another thing that I did in Dubai , and apparently they offer in Qatar as well is dune-bashing - riding around in big Landcruisers across the desert - it was AMAZING fun ! However , after my suggestion of it to a relative went bad - do n't do it if you get at all carsick ;)
It 's not necessarily suspicious , but the airport staff are trained to look more closely at anything unusual . As you may suspect , a big device with wires and batteries will likely garner some additional attention . The best thing to do is to be prepared . Make sure that you 've checked the airline 's list of prohibited items ( the one with guns , grenades are obvious , but there 's also the batteries etc ) . Make sure none of the prohibited items are carry-on , so that you 'll be checking everything in the hold . That gets rid of half their concern , if you wo n't have access to it during the flight . Then , bring documentation . Have a print out of the competition details , hopefully your entry form , details of where you built it , a letter perhaps from your company/university where it was built detailing the purpose . Also include print outs of your accommodation , and any correspondence you have with organisers of the competition . When it comes to the security check , what the staff are generally doing is looking for answers to questions that your robot will raise . Is it a bomb or benign ? Is it dangerous ? What are all those spare parts ? If you can answer those easily and clearly , with documentation , then they 've done their job and will be at ease with it . Every day people travel with equipment , devices , and more and more these days with wires , batteries and cables , so they 're becoming more knowledgeable and understanding . One last tip - get there early , and check in and go through security as early as possible . This reduces your chance of encountering a stressed agent ( at departure , anyway ) and also in the event of extra questioning , or inspection of your device by an expert , reduces the risk of you missing your flight .
It appears not , <URL> : Making your booking and taking your flight The DEFRA Export Section ( Dogs and Cats ) will advise you of the current documentation and vaccination requirements for your destination . We will also require a health certificate from your vet to show that your pet is fit for air travel . When you make your booking you will need to let your travel agent or British Airways booking representative know that you will be travelling with a pet . Your pet will not be able to check in with you but will be handled professionally by British Airways World Cargo , a cargo booking will be required which can be requested through the local British Airways World Cargo booking office . On the day of travel , deliver your pet to the British Airways World Cargo Office . The travel container will be checked and the appropriate charges collected . Please check local payment options when making your booking .
end question
start question
USA immigration JFK or Seattle ?
No . USA immigration and customs is always at your first stop in the USA , except if you are departing from an airport with <URL> . Brussels is not one of those . The JFK terminals are connected by a <URL> .
You should be fine . All entry points across the country are synchronized to use the same records , so any notes made in San Diego will be visible next time you enter , regardless of where you go . That said , there is a ( small ) risk is that the CBP officer did not completely fix up your records , so when you leave the country , your exit is not tied to your entry . If yes , because the US has no record of you leaving , you might be considered an illegal overstayer and get stopped the next time you come . If you have proof you left the US , eg . an entry stamp into another country , you can sort this out on the spot ; if not , things could get hairy . In a sane country , this would be sorted out at exit immigration , but Uncle Sam does n't have that . If you want to check , you could write to the CBP FOIA department and request a <URL> , which should show your entries and exits , and then you can ( try to ) take action if your exit does n't show . All that said , the mix-up with your niece sounds bizarre and confusing . As a wild guess , I 'd guess somebody screwed up some data entry when they were processing your visa , although I still do n't understand how they could possibly substitute your niece 's details . Which visa do you have , and did she sponsor your application or something ?
There are several ways , but it does n't really matter . First there are several ways US immigration can know these things . You might have been on a flight to the country in question . Or the US might find out from one of their intelligence partners . Your own country probably knows you made the visit , if you exited the country on your way there . But that 's not the point of the exercise . They really do n't care about someone who has visited Syria as a tourist . The targets of this measure are people that the US suspects of having links to terrorism , but no real evidence . They know enough about those people to know that they have visited the countries in question , so they ca n't evade the measure by lying . People visiting these countries for legitimate reasons are just collateral damage . The second point is that if you do n't declare your visit on the ESTA , and US immigration knows or find out about it , you are guilty of lying on an immigration form . That 's going to get your VWP privileges removed , and make it much harder for you to get a visa in the future . That 's just fine by them as it gives them a reason to exclude someone acting suspiciously without needing any evidence of wrongdoing . Lying on an application form is a great way to get yourself in trouble .
Considering you are a Greece passport holder you can simply hop on a plane and go to Chile for a stay of up to 90 days . Greece nationals do not need a visa if they intend to visit Chile for less than 90 days . Kindly make sure your passport is at least 90 days till expiry , prefer to be 6 months . resourceful links : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you want to clear any confusions you can call the embassy @ 202-785-1746
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
How does it work ? You go and stay in the queue for the taxi , usually just outside the terminal . When it 's your turn , you get inside the taxi and tell the driver your destination . And than you ride in ( sometimes smelly ) taxi for a while ( for a long while ) and eventually you get to your destination . How can I recognize it ? You wo n't miss it . There will be signs with directions , as well as the sign where the queue starts . Also , there is usually quite a lot of people queuing for the taxi . How can I recognize a legit taxi ? Although it never happened to me , some people may ask you if you need a taxi INSIDE the airport terminal . Avoid them , they are not legit . Head to the exit , search for a man or a woman with a little printer and dressed in uniform . ( credits to @Napolux for the information ) Once you are in official taxi queue you do n't really have to worry about taxi being legit , but you can still check taxi medallion . It will look similar to this and will be attached to the bonnet ( aka hood if you are American ) of the car . Additionally , there will be numbers inside of the taxi . <URL> You can check the number here : <URL> How much will it cost to take the taxi from JFK to Manhattan ? Is there a fixed fare ? There is a fixed fare , JKF to Manhattan is $ 52 + tolls + tips . Payable by card or cash .
The astronomical spring ( Northern Hemisphere ) 2014 begins on March 20 and ends on June 20 , that includes USA .
You 'll find no shortage of Breakfast locations along Venice beach , all open from at least 8am , many 7am or earlier . Although I 've never been there for breakfast , it 's hard to go past Figtree 's Cafe , if only for the view and because they do a half-price happy-hour from 8am to 9am . Other than food venues you wo n't find much else open until around 10am .
With the possible exception of Niagara ( Niagara Falls is a smaller , more tourist-oriented city , so the <URL> may be somewhat less comprehensive ) , all of the cities you listed should have extensive public transportation coverage . Most cities offer some form of unlimited travel pass , and in most cases a weekly pass is available . I think in general , you will find that the schedules of US public transportation will be a bit looser than you are used to in the UK ( at least from my limited experience of the London Underground ) . Pickup times can vary by 15 minutes or more in many cities without being considered unusual , especially for the bus lines . Generally speaking , you want to be a few minutes early ( 5 or more ) , just to be safe . Philadelphia , as Raj More mentioned , is serviced by SEPTA , and has a good combination of buses , subways and trains . The trains are generally reliable , and provide fast and easy access through the main parts of the city , operating out of 3 main hubs within the city , and provide access to most of the suburban areas . The subways provide good access throughout the city , to the areas not immediately serviced by the trains . The buses provide access to just about everywhere else , although they tend to run less frequently , particularly for the less popular destinations , and their schedules are more ... flexible . Chicago is served by the <URL> that is similar to Philadelphia 's SEPTA train system , providing access to most suburban areas . There is also an above-ground elevated train that provides good access within the city . I am less familiar with the bus system , since during the time I lived there , I took the elevated train ( " the El " ) when traveling within the city . New York 's subway is an excellent means of travel within the city . Edit : I missed Las Vegas , which deserves some special mention . Las Vegas may be a bit atypical , as , much like Niagara Falls , it is largely tourist-oriented . However , it diverges considerably from Niagara in attitude towards tourists . The lure of the free or cheap deal is frequently a means of attracting tourists to specific casinos , and this can frequently be exploited for traveling . Many of the hotels and casinos offer free shuttle services , plus there are a number of non-traditional public transportation methods available : <URL> .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
You and your passport and your boarding pass will be checked by <URL> , as they 're the ones who run the " <URL> " . They need to verify you are actually departing from YUL to the EU . The airport 's <URL> do n't actually show the counter , but there 's <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> .
Is a prior/recent entry into Mexico a red flag for U.S. immigration officials ? I have recently finished watching all of the episodes of the TV show <URL> . I know you asked about the States , but in this regard , I would say that the immigration practises are not too dissimilar . I have observed two things : Mexico : considered to be a drug source country . There are a good number of cases shown whereby visitors to Mexico and other South American nations bring back banned substances to their country of origin . This happens knowingly as well as under duress . Substances tend to be concealed within the body at times and this can only be brought out of the traveller under extensive questioning/checks . India : I 've heard immigration officers state that India is also a drug source country especially when packages are shipped from India . Another flag : it is not uncommon to find Indian visitors bring in undeclared food/fruits/meat products . Is so , why and is it fair ? I think this to be a matter of opinion . Every country has their own rules on who they want to screen based on circumstantial clues . There are going to be people who think it makes a place safer and there are going to be people who think it is a nuisance . I have my opinion too : immigration officers have a job to do regardless of a travellers country of origin , gender , race , etc. . If you feel like you have been treated unfairly , there are channels through with grievances can be reported . I do suspect they treat a Mexican entry as a risk , but I 'm looking for concrete citations that they do . That is not in the public domain . A lot of the time , immigration officers tend to question persons they feel could be concealing something .
They are different . The reason people use the terms interchangeably is that at many border crossings ( especially at airports ) one set of people handle both . Customs is about the stuff you are bringing into the country . Is it allowed , should you pay duty , should it be confiscated and burned , etc. . By default , none of your stuff is allowed in , even if you 're a citizen returning home . Immigration is about a person who is visiting , immigrating , or returning home . By default visitors are ( technically ) turned away unless they have a good reason and meet other criteria ( for example visitors to Canada may be turned away if they have a criminal record ) and those who live here are let in . Immigrants are let in if the paperwork they 've done in advance is all correct . Both processes involve " who are you , where are you coming from , why are you coming here , why were you there " and so on . Both involve a uniformed person , your passport , and probably your baggage . For example if you say you are visiting for 3 days , but you have brought weeks worth of clothing - probably all you own - along with more permanent possessions like books , photo albums , and CDs , an immigration officer may suspect you are moving here . Customs officers may want to inspect your baggage for contraband , and your explanation for your visit may make the difference between being inspected or not . As a result they are considered a single process in most people 's minds . To add to the complication , many airlines wo n't let you board unless you convince them you will be let in at your destination , and some airports ( especially in Europe ) want to look at your passport and other immigration-related documentation several times before you get to the boarding gate . None of this counts as " clearing customs and immigration " but it may sure feel like it .
I 'm not aware of any official statistics but as far as I remember it took me about 30 minutes . The airport is small and did n't look very busy but I arrived at 2:00 am so I 'm not quite sure if it 's going to be more crowded during daytime . You need to compile an entry paper and pay a fee ( about $ 50 now for a single entry ) .
This really depends on the country , your citizenship , your reason for visiting , etc. , but in general - yes , being unemployed increases the chance of having trouble with immigration . When admitting someone as a short-term visitor , immigration officials look at thing like the following : Does the person have enough money for the intended trip ( without resorting to illegal work , trying to get government benefits/welfare , begging , etc ) ? Does the person have significant ties to the home country ? How likely is the person to be lying about the purpose and length of the visit ( could the person be secretly looking for illegal employment , etc ) ? Being unemployed counts against you on all 3 items above . So , you should have really good answers to all 3 questions . Even if it 's not strictly required , you should carry with you things like : you proof of sufficient funds , onwards travel ticket that takes you out of the country , proof or already-booked ( and ideally already-paid-for ) accommodations , proof of insurance ( so that an unexpected illness will not leave you without funds ) , proof of ties to your home country , etc. . Be extra diligent with carrying all this proof , printed out , even if you think you wo n't need it at a particular border crossing . Do not carry items that may indicate that you 're looking to stay in the country for a long time or seek employment ( e.g. I 've heard of people getting in trouble with carrying resumes ) . As for customs ( opening bags , etc ) I do n't think an " unemployed " status will be much of a concern here , unless it 's opening bags for immigration and not customs purposes ( i.e. to check that the items you are carrying are consistent with the purpose of your trip ) . DO NOT lie to immigration officials . Doing this can have very serious consequences in many countries , including entry bans for many years . You may , however , want to rethink how you present your unemployment . Technically , " unemployed " means that you 're looking for work and you 're unable to find it ( which is why it sounds so bad ) . But if you 're e.g. just taking a year off to travel ( i.e. you 're " intentionally unemployed " ) , you could say that you 're taking a " sabbatical year " or something . If you 're old enough to retire , perhaps frame it as " early retirement " . Also I notice from your profile you are a " sole-proprietor Software Developer " - if you actually have money coming in on a semi-regular basis from freelance clients and such , I would say you 're " self-employed " rather than " unemployed " . ( Even if you find a better term than " unemployed " , all of my advice about carrying proof with you still applies ) .
You basically have three options : Amtrak . Take the <URL> train from Vancouver to Seattle in about four hours . The big benefit here is that the train is n't nearly as affected by car traffic at the border , which can be very lengthy especially going into the US . This is because you actually clear US immigration at the train station in Vancouver before boarding the train . The down side to that is that you have to arrive earlier than you think , to be sure that you have time to clear immigration . Another down side is that it 's expensive . The cheapest ticket I could find was $ 41 each way , and for a more reasonable schedule you may pay more than $ 60 each way . These prices are likely to go up as the dates approach . Also note that you have to be careful when booking on Amtrak as most of the schedules they offer for this route are actually on buses . Bus . Several bus services ( <URL> , <URL> , and such ) offer service between Vancouver and Seattle , for as little as $ 15 each way . The down side is that you are subject to traffic jams at the border . While the bus companies generally factor border waits into their schedules , if it 's unusually busy , you might find yourself arriving later than you expected . A typical trip is also about four hours . Drive yourself . If you can cross the border at less busy hours , you can avoid the traffic jams and complete the trip in as little as two and a half hours ( assuming you are n't speeding ) . Late night on a weeknight would be such a time . And , gas is cheaper in the US than in Canada , ( even though it 's more expensive in Washington state than most other places in the US ) so you have an opportunity to fill up your car both on the way down and on the way back . If you have a NEXUS card you 'll skip most of the traffic at the border anyway . Aside from traffic at the border , the big down side is that you have to figure out where to park your car in Seattle .
From <URL> : Complaints concerning allegations of misconduct/discrimination The U.S. Customs and Border Protection takes allegations of employee misconduct and discrimination very seriously . Allegations of misconduct or discrimination are referred to the CBP Office of Internal Affairs . Personnel are specially trained to investigate and review allegations . If warranted , CBP will take appropriate action against the employee . CBP INFO Center OPA - MS1345 U.S. Customs and Border Protection 1300 Pennsylvania Ave. , N.W. Washington , DC 20229 How to file a complaint ? Please see the complaints section of the customer service page . In addition , " complaints section " is a link , which , after a couple of steps , will lead you to <URL> The behavior may be argued to be discrimination , but it is certainly misconduct . The text message ought to serve as clear evidence of the misconduct , so your cousin 's complaint would likely have a real effect .
The cheapest option to get to the city is to take an MTA bus directly from the airport . You can transfer for free to one other bus line or , if you use a prepaid MetroCard " gold " , to the subway . The fare is currently $ 2.75 , but depending on which MetroCard you buy , you may spend slightly less . JFK is served by five MTA bus lines , all of which have a free transfer to at least one subway line . Three of the five stop at terminal 5 : the Q3 , the Q10 , and the B15 . The others do not stop at any passenger terminal . You 'll most likely land at the wrong terminal , so you 'll have to take the AirTrain to the bus stop , but this is free of charge . Plan on at least an extra hour for this trip , compared to taking the AirTrain to Jamaica or Howard Beach . I think most people 's time is worth more that $ 5 an hour , but maybe you have additional factors to consider . See <URL> for the Queens bus map .
As of 2016 , the manned passport checks at Prague airport were replaced with boarding pass scanners . As a matter of fact , I did n't once have to show an ID flying PRG-BCN today . Therefore the question is now moot .
Both Turin and Genova are two big cities able to provide you a lot of attractions , the choice of the best one really depends on what you are interested in and what kind of cities you prefer in general . As a personal point of view I consider Turin far more elegant than Genova : nice streets with elegant buildings , the possibility to climb ( by car or by a little old train ) on the hill of Superga close to the city and have a wonderful view on the city and the Alps in the background , a lot of history related mostly with the period of the wars that brought to the formation of Italy as a single state ( but also big roman ruins ) , the biggest egyptian museum in the world outside Egypt and a vibrant night-life . Genova has a strong connection with the sea : the wonderful acquarium is considered its main attraction and its internal streets ( Carrugi ) are quite peculiar too . Even Genova has a rich history and has been one of the major european cities in term of power , so you can find several nice buildings reflecting this . I do n't know about the night-life there but I never heard anybody praising it like I did with the Turin one . Regarding the food , both have particular regional dishes ( pesto from Genova for example ) but I guess that Turin with the wonderful wines from Piemonte and the " fassona " meat could be considered better even from this point of view .
end question
start question
With Aegean airlines GoLight how many pieces of cabin baggage ? Are seats allocated together ?
The Aegean website says that <URL> : The only moment in which you can select your seats is upon checking in . Fortunately <URL> Note however that the airline has the right to move you to a different seat if they want to , so guaranteeing that you 'll be sitting together is kind of impossible . It 's likely though that your selected seats wo n't be changed unless there 's a real need for it .
I remember reading a piece about these recently enough that I thought it was on here . Evidently not . Anyway , there are brands like Vapestick , which at least on their website state that it 's legal to use them onboard . I assume they 'd get sued to infinity and beyond if that was n't true , by now . <URL> : While it is n't illegal to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes , it could definitely raise questions or cause other passengers to be alarmed , so you will need to approach the situation carefully if you plan on getting away with it . However , further down the same page they also note that despite it not being illegal , many airlines do BAN it , so it 's best to check with your airline first . Electronic cigarettes on planes are banned by some airlines operating in the US . In the UK , you can still get away with it in most cases , but there 's no way of knowing for sure . The easiest way to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes without raising any questions is to smoke in the rest room . Personally I find something mildly suspect about how they tell you to ' get away with it ' and the like . If there 's a place in this modern world you really do n't want to be upsetting people , it 's onboard an airplane at 37k feet ...
I ca n't find the reference now , but there was a great story that an organisation was testing security at airports around the world , by taking a suitcase to the airport and leaving it there , timing how long before it got stolen or identified . The exception was Johannesburg , where the car was hijacked enroute , and the suitcase never made it to the airport ;) Anyway ... Apparently in the last year , luggage theft has been reduced by 60 % : <URL> which bodes well . Baggage pilfering is down to 0.6 % of all bags that pass through the airport , which when you think about it is still bad , but if you lock your bags and use the bag wrapping machines available , it 'll deter the opportunistic thief .
Yes , particularly in your circumstance where the airline can see it occurred because of a delayed inbound flight . In that condition the delay has encroached into the " minimum connect time " between LGA and EWR ( which is three hours ) . If you were involved in a delay between LGA and EWR I would also expect to be re-accommodated . However this is a bit more difficult to assert and prove . ( All of this relies on these flights being on a single ticket -- that is , bought at the same time from one seller . ) By the way , you can write " LGA-EWR " as " LGA / / EWR " to indicate that you are not flying between LGA and EWR but using alternative transportation .
Prague is safe , I would say to the European standards . You really do n't get people coming to you with a knife and wanting your money , certainly not in touristic areas and not during the day ( a bit more to this later ) . So , most theft comes from people not being careful enough . The standard rules apply that nothing valuable has to be accessible : no wallets in pockets , no valuables in handbags , no loosely carried cameras etc. . Also , be careful about your cellphone . If you want some money accessible easily for convenience , have change and maybe two notes in a pocket ; this would n't be much a loss if stolen . So , either wear a backpack with a pocket not accessible from outside ( and also not easily accessible through cutting ) or use a money belt . Common places for theft are the Charles Bridge , in front of the Astronomical Clock , places with seasonal street markets , and especially the underground and trams . Second type of theft is through people offering something on the street ( could be jewellery , drugs , sex services , money exchange , ... ) . I recommend not to interact with these much , simply say a firm " I do n't need anything , thanks , " and ignore them from that point , avoiding any further contact . Things get slightly different at night , but only in some places . Most importantly , the top of the Wenceslas Square and the adjacent street Ve Smečkách , the park in front of the Main Railway Station ( " the Sherwood " ) and quarters Holešovice , Karlín , Žižkov . You do n't need to go there at night , so do not . ( Not that someone would kill you , but local people have some interesting stories about these places . )
The only easy way to attain AA status is to have it gifted to you , either by the company or by another elite . Still , there are some avenues to shorten the climb . <URL> allow Executive Platinum members who earn 125,000 EQMs to gift AAdvantage Gold status to a friend for one year . A company enrolled in <URL> can redeem 2,400 points ( equivalent to $ 24,000 in spending ) to give Gold status to an employee . AA does not generally <URL> except some cases negotiated through corporate travel departments ; however , earlier this year they pounced on problems at United to poach some upper tier Premiers with matches . <URL> -- Each calendar year when you reach $ 40,000 in spending on purchases , you will earn 10,000 EQMs . This card is also sometimes promoted with a one-time signup bonus of 5,000 EQMs for new cardholders . Completing a <URL> is usually the easiest way to attain status quickly if you have travel already scheduled , particularly if in a premium cabin as the challenge is based on EQPs , not EQMs . Note that the challenge is only offered to attain a status , not to maintain it . AA periodically runs <URL> . If you 're a true mover-and-shaker , someone who is giving AA hundreds of thousands of dollars of business over the years in full fares , you may be invited to the <URL> program . Also , while the <URL> prepaid card no longer comes with status , it does come with Admirals Club membership and priority checkin/screening/boarding .
According to <URL> , as a Business class customer you 'll have access to the following services : Comfortable , reclining seats <URL> <URL> More luggage allowance Access to lounges ( <URL> - AC Maple Leaf Lounge , Between gates 52 and 53 ) Priority check-in , baggage drop and boarding A toiletry/comfort kit for the flight More miles awarder on the flight
I was flying from Singapore to New Zealand ( 11 hours ) . Jetstar will not feed you without additional charge . This is company policy . They wo n't even bring you tea or coffee without charging . In addition , economy class is creepily cold . Bring some warm clothes . In business class meals included in cost of flight ticked . In economy class you must <URL> it .
There are many possibilities here , and there 's no definitive answer , travel pricing is complex enough just looking at flights when you start talking bundles it gets worse . First off , this is n't impossible but it 's also not always the case , depends on where you 're going , for how long and what time of year ( also what particular days , weekend/weekday ) . So I 'd just accept it , be pleased and move on . You 'd have to check the conditions on your confirmation to see if you need to stay at the hotel , but the most you 'd likely have to do is check-in / check-out nobody will check you 're actually staying in the room . So why the low price ? First you 're booking something on short-notice , generally that means higher prices . Perhaps Expedia have a deal with the airlines where they pre-buy X seats on a given route at a much lower price a long time ago . Expedia knows from experience that they can sell enough to cover the costs , the airline knows that they have some guaranteed money which is good on flights that might not otherwise sell out . The same goes for hotels . I 'm assuming the flight you 're getting is the same as one of the ones you priced separately -- i.e. Expedia has n't given you a charter flight or linked two different ends together . It may just be that Expedia gets a discount from some airline that 's not available to people booking directly . As I said , there are lots of possible reasons , if you let us know where you were going ( and where from ) it might be possible to come up with something more specific .
Depending on the flight routing , air crews do have the ability to communicate with the airline offices during the flight . Most likely in this case , the fact that a special meal cart was improperly stocked was relayed to the operations office , either during flight or upon landing . A caring staff member who received that communique probably made a note in your booking record . And a thoughtful flight attendant who saw the note came to express an apology . Passenger manifests are constantly updated right up until the door closes . And they contain quite a few tidbits about the passengers for the flight attendants reference . So it is quite easy for your issue to have been noted before the flight left .
Promoting some comments to an answer There are various things you might want to consider for your seat : Some seats are near the galley ( can be noisy ) or toilets Some seats have the tray table or screen in the arm rest that can reduce seat width Some seats are n't aligned with a window Some seats have extra leg room in front of them Some seats do n't allow you to put baggage on the floor / under the seat in front Some seats have extra storage space alongside Within a given airline , some planes can have slightly different sized seats to others within the fleet ( eg the 777 planes might have different seating to the 319-321s ) The good news is that there are websites that track all this , who can let you compare seats between airlines , and identify good or bad seats + why ! These sites include , but are not limited to , things like Seatguru.com and Seatplans.com . Search around for sites like that , see which one ( s ) you get on with , then check those . Also , different things matter to different people , so be sure to read the full details . Someone might say " by the toilet , bad , mark as red " , while someone else with bladder problems might decide that that seat is therefore the best on the plane and shout be green !
Western Europe is divided north and south by the Alps . For this reason , there are currently no water routes that go all the way from northern to southern Europe . The closest thing for now to a pan-European waterway is a route along the Rhine to Bavaria , to a point just over 100 miles from the Danube . A canal connecting the two was completed in 1992 . This was in the " middle " Alps , still a relatively low elevation containing the sources of the two rivers . Note that while the Rhine goes from northwest to southeast ( upstream ) , the Danube flows mainly east to the Black Sea . So your " southern " leg really ends in Southeast Europe . There are several proposed canal routes . <URL> The most interesting of them would connect the Rhine in Germany to the Rhone in France , linking the north Sea and Mediterranean directly . That 's over hillier country than the Rhine-Danube connection . Another proposed connection is from the upper Elbe to the Danube , across the Czech Republic and Austria , also linking the Oder river in Poland . Those parts of Europe are not as populated or as prosperous as the Rhineland , which is why completion of the connections may take some time . As for reaching the Aegean/Adriatic Seas ? Maybe in another century or two across the Italian and Yugoslavian Alps . The connections mentioned above were envisioned in 1938-9 , probably in connection with World War II >
Two other possible solutions . There is a funny-looking <URL> on sale in several places that can be used to fill the gap between the two joined beds . This makes things a bit more comfortable at the beginning of the process , but it works only until the gap becomes too large . Moreover , it does n't look exactly travel-size . You simply have to increase the friction between the bed legs and the floor . The easiest way is putting something sticky or rubbery below the legs . Be creative ; you can use for instance <URL> , or even duct tape ( is there anything it ca n't fix ? ) .
It would appear not , but there 's nothing stopping us from creating one . People can edit the answer as we find more . Airlines that ban the Knee Defender Air Canada <URL> American Airlines <URL> Continental Airlines <URL> Delta Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Qantas <URL> Southwest Airlines <URL> United Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Virgin Australia <URL> ; <URL> WestJet <URL> Airlines that discourage but do n't ban the Knee Defender British Airways <URL> JetBlue Airways <URL> Airlines that allow the Knee Defender EasyJet <URL> Virgin Atlantic <URL> Airlines with seats that do not recline Allegiant Air <URL> Spirit <URL> Ryanair <URL>
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
If you are flying economy If you have a baby flying with you : Take the first row of the zone you are setting in . First rows are usually where the fittings for the baby basinets are available . Also , you will be close to toilets to change diapers and so . If you are travelling with kids : Take a side of a row next to the window at the beginning or end of a zone . The windows too keep kids busy and the end or beginning of a zone to be close to toilets because kids are frequent pee-ers and vomiters . If you want to sleep during the flight : Take a window seat in the middle of a zone . In the middle to be away from noise ( lavatories and galleys ) and a window seat so no one bothers you to get in or out . If you are planning to stay awake during the flight : Take an aisle seat , will be easier for you to get out and in anytime you want to stretch your legs or just to get little social in the plane . You are a teacher and traveling with group of kids , like in school stuff : Group the kids in one part of the plane , and take a seat at the very other side of the plane . Travelling with the significant other : Cinema rule apply here , take two seats at the end of the plane either on the left or right . In many wide bodied airplanes the last row on the sides have only two seats due to the shape of the fuselage . No one will be sharing the moment with you ! If you are flying First or business class This is extremely different from one airlines to another , some airlines even provide shower rooms , bars and other services . You will get the best of the airline in these classes , limited number of passengers and many services . So no worries . Please note : I said zone , not class . Classes can have multiple zones , especially in economy class in wide bodied airplanes . A zone is usually the area between two sets of doors with a bulkhead separating them .
Number one easiest way : A padlock . It comes down to psychology : you 're looking for a bag to steal - are you going to choose a locked one or an easily-opened one ? Secondly , having a unique , distinct bag is likely a deterrent too . A thief is less likely to pick up the gaudy unicorn-emblazoned pink and purple backpack than the standard black bag that has 9 duplicates of it on the carousel . <URL> Try not to make a bathroom stop until you 've got your bag . The longer it 's travelling around the carousel on its own , the longer it 's unattended and inviting attention . Another simple idea is to buy cheap , simple luggage ( expensive luggage implies the contents may be valuable too ) .
It does not appear that any US passenger airlines currently operate flights within the EU . I assumed that if any such flight existed , it would be with one of the big four legacy airlines ( AA , UA , US , DL ) and at least one end would be at a major hub . I checked the Wikipedia pages for LHR , CDG , FRA and AMS , and none of them show flights on those carriers to other EU airports . However , based on those same Wikipedia pages , it does appear that the US cargo airlines FedEx Express and UPS Airlines operate many flights within the EU .
It 's not hard to identify flights which may fly over the Grand Canyon -- but finding out which ones definitely will , and whether or not you will have a view if you take one , are a different story . With some trial and error , you can find flights that pass over the area on any of the websites that offer flight tracking , like <URL> . Grand Canyon National Park is labeled on the " Aviation Sectional " map view , and its contours are visible on that view as well as the " Earth View . " Since FlightAware and similar services show the actual reported flight paths of aircraft , they are more reliable for discovery than , for example , tools like the <URL> , which rely on purely mathematical calculations . The <URL> shows aircraft currently reports in an area , though this will include many non-commercial flights . As there is a good amount of traffic through this area headed to and from Southern California or Phoenix , you can try plugging in city pairs like MSP-LAX , SLC-PHX , or SEA-TUS in the " <URL> " for some ideas . There is a great deal of variation in actual flight paths , however . Flight plans take into account the winds and the weather , and flights are subject to rerouting by the air traffic control system . Consider that on 25 September 2014 , <URL> passed straight over the eastern Grand Canyon , but today , <URL> flies well to the northwest , bypassing it entirely . Even if you had been on the 25 September flight , you might not have had much of a view . There could have been clouds ; or the plane might have been turning , banking your side of the plane towards the sky ; or you may have passed at an angle that showed only a vague gap on the horizon , and not any view into the canyon itself . But most importantly , of course , you 'd have been flying through the area after sunset . While approaches to airports are somewhat more predictable -- airports have certain prevailing wind patterns and certain preferred runways -- the path an aircraft will take over such a large area is much less certain . If you 're really excited about the idea of flying over the Grand Canyon , I suggest you look into booking an <URL> . Otherwise , enjoy the flight as best you can , and think of any Grand Canyon sightings as a nice bonus .
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
end question
start question
How does a tourist visa from Visatorussia with AirBnB work ?
I contacted visatorussia and got a quick answer to this question : If you do not plan to stay at a hotel , please leave the field blank . A hotel will then be mentioned in your invitation for form 's sake and you will have to indicate the same hotel in your consulate application form . This way you will obtain a tourist visa with no complications and once in Russia , you will be able to choose accommodation in accordance with your convenience .
How an airlines handles musical instruments like guitars depends on the one you are flying with . Some require you to put it into check-in luggage . Some allow you to carry it on-board ; either by paying an excess baggage fee or by buying an extra seat ( perhaps at a discounted rate ) . Many low-cost airlines either force you to check-in or buy a full-cost seat for it . With low-cost airlines , you also may need to book the music instrument upgrade online before your flight , otherwise you end up paying at excess baggage rates at the airport . There are very few airlines who offer a free seat ( even to economy class fliers ) if the flight has seats available . One airlines that does this in the international sector is <URL> .
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
Ah , German nitpicking ... Willkommen in Deutschland ! But have no fear , since this is Germany there 's a well-defined process for appealing . The German Embassy in Manila , Philippines has a <URL> about how to apply for a " remonstration against " ( their term ! ) the visa rejection , and I 'm sure more or less the same process applies for the Chennai consulate . Quoting the relevant bits : You can remonstrate only in writing , and your remonstration must contain the following details : Your name , first name , date of birth , place of birth , and the number of your passport The date your application was rejected A serviceable address that contains the street name , house - or apartment number , City / Town / Village , postal code , if applicable : please state your e-mail address The remonstration must be signed by your own hand ( a remonstration by a third party e.g. your sponsor , can only be accepted and processed if you have given your sponsor a power of attorney , which is submitted with the remonstration ) . And If you applied for a visa of the category " C " ( Schengenvisa ) , the deadline for filing the remonstration is one ( 1 ) month after your received the letter of rejection . You can submit by mail , fax or e-mail , but if e-mail , you have to send in a scan of a printed letter with your signature . And obviously the better you can explain the discrepancy ( a revised letter and/or note from your office should do nicely ) , the higher the chances of success . Incidentally , if your remonstration also fails you can apparently try once more with the High Court in Berlin , but that 's probably a bit overkill for a tourist visa ...
I phoned TfL to find the answer to this . It 's simple and straightforward : The rate depends on when you touch in . Peak fares apply from 06:30 to 09:29 and from 16:00 to 18:59 Monday to Friday ( excluding public holidays ) . Off-peak fares apply at all other times . That is , if you touch in during those two three-hour periods , you will be charged the peak fare . If your journey starts in off-peak time but strays into the peak period , it 's still an off-peak fare .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
There 's an Airbud interpretation of laws that goes along the lines of " There 's no rule that says a dog ca n't play football " . Or in <URL> : There 's a great Canadian article on it on <URL> , where it comes down to being ' murky ' . They point out the NYC rule , as well as when a landlord says you ca n't let your place out , or finds out you are and can kick you out . In the end one of their renters gave a quote which sums it up : " To have a great experience , sometimes you have to take a chance , " says Clarke . " Staying at a Marriott is like a bank account : low return , but your investment is safe . Airbnb is like a risky stock : Things can go wrong , but you can also win big . " Of course , that 's as a guest . Fortunately , if you 're a guest , you 're probably not the one in hot water if it is n't allowed . It 'd be like a regular hotel forgetting to renew their license . However , consider ... As someone letting out their room , it depends if you own it . If you yourself are a renter , one would want to check your letting agreement with your landlord . Mine have had specific clauses saying guests staying longer than x days need to be verified , and no subletting is allowed . If you really wanted to be sure , check with your landlord as well . He 's getting his rent , and as long as you 're not wrecking , many would be ok with it . Some obviously wo n't , however . And that 's where the problem lies . IF they do get into trouble or it turns out to be banned by their lease , you may find yourself getting turfed out , or turn up in town only to find you have nowhere to stay . However , the majority of people are reporting great experiences with it . I 'll be using it when I visit Australia in November .
In my experience , a " visa at the airport " ( or " the border " ) is something you pay for , and probably fill out an application form for . A US citizen entering the UK as a general visitor does neither . In addition , such a visa usually takes the form of a piece of paper stuck into the passport on one of the visa pages , not just an inked stamp . There is no such piece of paper for US tourists in the UK . I also note that the government site <URL> says that a US citizen coming as a tourist " wo n't need a visa " -- they do not say that you have an implicit visa represented by the passport stamp or anything like that . They say that you do not need a visa . That implies that the passport stamp is not a visa .
MOST IMPORTANT : Get to an embassy/consulate . Identification can be done later . But if at all possible , that embassy/consulate is the most sensible , safest place for you to be . For example , let 's say you 're a Kiwi . Many countries have NZ embassies or consulates . Failing that , like when I needed one in Bolivia , there 's the Australian embassy who will also help out . Or the British . Even if it 's not YOUR embassy , another embassy will at least know who to call and how to deal with these things . Lost passport ? You can get issued an emergency travel document . Go to the embassy , not necessarily the police ( friend did this in Russia and spent the night in prison for travelling without ID ( ! ) ) . Sick , injured , or worse ? Hospitals can be arranged with the embassy , and Interpol can contact families overseas ( I 've had to do this on behalf of a friend while in Bolivia ) . No money ? Well if you can get to an embassy , they 'll help out there , but you could contact someone for a Western Union transfer from overseas . Let 's look at when I was pick-pocketed in Bunol , Spain - had no money for a phone call even . A bit of begging got some Euro to make a call , and in the end a kind police officer even helped with organising transport . Bottom line , the kindness of strangers is incredible sometimes . In Bolivia my inadequate Spanish would have been a massive problem , but a random employee of the place I was staying cancelled his day and took me around everywhere , translating for me . He did n't know me and expected nothing in return .
The rule of thumb here is whether the traveler is able to convince the Immigration officer that she is definitely planning to leave the country within the required term . A return ticket may be a factor , but it is neither a guarantee to entry nor it is required . As a citizen of Ukraine , once I 've traveled to the States holding a B-1 visa , and my return ticket had an open return date . So formally , I did not have ticket to a specific date . However , traveling for business purposes often has a good , documented , time-specific reason . In my case , it was my participation in an expo , and , obviously , an expo ends at a certain date . In my case , the officer looked at the expo invitation ( two weeks or so since the date of entry ) and stamped me 3 months which I have used shamelessly . Also , remember that the visa does not guarantee the entry to the country . Everything is up to the immigration officer . Let me put it even in a less neutral way : her entry may depend on a bad mood of a particular Immigration officer . So , do n't set yourself up into a potential trouble . So , your mother-in-law may be asked various questions so that the officer were sure she 's not a potential offender of immigration rules . What you may do is : Try purchasing an open-date return ticket . This alone will simplify things alot ( however , it might be more expensive than a fixed-date one ) . Prepare your answers in advance . Remember the factors that may help your argument : Is it her first travel to U.S. ? -- the more times she has been there , the fewer questions she will be asked ; Did she have prior issues in U.S. , even driving tickets ? -- counter-intuitively , this may count ; She 's probably going to a certain event , does n't she ? Does she have an invitation letter from the company who invites her ? -- this may help , provided that the letter states some required time-frame for her stay in the country ; It is also important to show how tightly she 's linked to her ( Ukrainian ! ) employer , family , and so on ;
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
You do n't need to apply for a visa in advance to enter the UK with a Nicaraguan passport , as long as your period of stay is less than six months , <URL> . However , the length of the visa issued on arrival is at the discretion of the immigration official who processes you at border control .
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
( some of the info here might be dated - but still it might show that such a process is indeed recognized by some international laws ) Yes , Since I am travelling really a lot for business , I have encountered them in some ( special ) situation , although not in Airports , but in walk-in borders , trains or ferries - and usually where the countries have a special relation . For example , in Zuhai ( China ) where there is a walking border to Macau , you can apply for a special 3 days Chinese visa at the border itself . In Shenzen , You can apply for a special 5 days Chinese visa at the border also . Now , while those situations Can be considered a " visa on arrival " - for Chinese citizens , it is the other way around . A Chinese citizen can apply for a Macau visa ( or respectively - HK ) at the border itself BEFORE exiting China . This can be also done for other non-Chinese citizens that require a visa to HK or Macau ( I do not require one - But I have seen it done there ) Another Example is the walk-in Border between Jordan and Israel when one can apply for a Jordanian Visa BEFORE exiting Israel ( there are 3 such borders , I only have done it in one ) . Another example are some remote borders ( Can not remember the names ) between Ecuador and Colombia and Ecuador and Peru , where some years back ( actually - a lot ) I had a visa made BEFORE exiting the Ecuadorian customs , and the visa was made by Colombian and Peruvian officials INSIDE Ecuador . India and Nepal ( were ) another such example - and come to think of it - so does China and Tibet . . Back to China , in Guangzhou South train station there is a special direct train to HK , where you actually do passport control at the train station ( more than 150 km INSIDE china ) before boarding the train . A few years back ( maybe now also - I do not know ) You could have applied for a visa there also ( before buying a ticket ) So I guess yes , In some special situations these type of visas exists ( or - existed ) so they are sanctioned by international law and applied somewhere - although today in the age of e-visas and computers , I guess they are disappearing or will soon .
It 's difficult to give a concrete , sourced answer to this without knowing which country we 're talking about . However , in most cases , I would n't worry about it if I was you , as long as your main intention is tourism . If you 're very keen on being careful , you could contact the embassy of whatever country you 're going to visit . But this has the very real danger of complicating the visa application process when the time comes . Maybe ask them after you 've returned ? ( <URL> ) The situation might change a little if you become known as someone selling photographs on the side ( For example , if you have a website , etc. ) This still seems very unlikely , though , but some countries will demand that all persons who are known to work in related professions visit on a journalist visa , regardless what they claim any given trip is for . For example , two years ago my mother , who works in publishing , wanted to visit India , purely as a tourist . The Indian Embassy demanded that , due to her profession , she did so on a journalist visa , regardless of her stated intentions for the trip . Now , since you probably are n't working in media , even this would n't apply to you . But if you got into the habit of selling photographs , had a website , or were otherwise known as someone making money from photography , it 's not impossible ( though still very unlikely ) that it could happen . Mostly though , if the main intention of your trip is tourism , most countries wo n't mind , let alone notice , if you happen to end up selling some of the photos you took as a tourist . I find it extremely unlikely that any government is gon na track down an amateur photographer after a trip and say " Hey , what kind of visa were you on when you took that photo ? " And even if it did happen , it 's such a gray area that you 'd be unlikely to get anything worse than a warning .
Have a look at <URL> . You apply for visa online , and then physically get it by reporting to a consular service within 3 days of entering the country ( you get an entry permit sent to your email which you use to actually enter ) . I would not advise trying to obtain visa/entry at the border , unless you are exempt from visa by Abkhazia . Also take note of the following important info : Citizens of the following countries must have double entry or multiple Russian visas to come to Abkhazia ( it is a mandatory requirement , since the Russian Embassy in Abkhazia will not issue transit visas to the citizens of these countries ) : Algeria Angola Afghanistan Bangladesh Vietnam India Iraq Iran PRC DPRK ( North Korea ) Nepal Nigeria Pakistan Rwanda Syria Somalia Chad Sri Lanka Ethiopia See more at : <URL> and : NOTE ! When visiting Abkhazia through the territory of the Russian Federation you must receive at least a double entry Russian visa ( the first time you enter Russia on the way to Abkhazia and the second time you visit Russia on your way from Abkhazia back to your home country ) . Foreign citizens are required to have a double entry or multiple visa of the Russian Federation . See more at : <URL>
I 'm going to assume you 're from the UK , based only on the fact the learning to fly abroad is popular for UK residents , since many places offer flight time cheaper than the UK . You 're from Saudi , but I do n't think that changes anything . The southern USA used to be the venue of choice , because of low flight time costs and reliably good weather . I understand that recent visa restriction changes mean that USA is now pretty much off the table for someone wanting to earn their PPL on a vacation . My first recommendation is Canada . The <URL> starts by saying you need a student visa , but then notes that students intending to come to Canada for six months or less do n't need one . I would recommend checking this out before committing to anything . The weather is good , in the sense that flying conditions are rarely poor enough to prevent you flying . ( I recommend summer rather than winter though , just because people mostly do n't want to fly light planes when its very cold , even if the weather permits it ) . Other popular venues are Australia and South Africa . I 'm afraid I ca n't speak for their visa requirements . The schools I found with my brief search were all focussed on CPL training ( even more popular than foreign PPL training since the savings are higher ) . Your search results may vary . If you have a ticket paid to anywhere , those two would also provide you with the advantage of an awesome vacation experience . Be aware that learning to fly is going to occupy you full time for several weeks . While the weather may be nice , you wo n't get much ' vacation ' in the sense of relaxed beach-sitting or sightseeing while you are doing it .
The official page is the <URL> page . Working Holiday visa holders from the UK are an exception to the usual rules , where you are able to extend your total stay to 23 months ( the normal maximum for visitors from most other countries is 12 months without the ability to extend ) . The only restrictions on employment are : You must not take up permanent employment ( unless you apply for and are granted an ordinary work visa while you 're here ) . You must not work for a period exceeding 12 months . You can enrol in one or more courses of training or study of up to six months ' duration in total during your visit . The second point means that you can not work for the same employer for a time greater than 12 months . Working Holiday schemes for visitors from other countries may have different restrictions . For example , visitors from <URL> can not work for the same employer for more than three months . These restrictions change from time to time , and when you get a visa it should state on the visa itself what your restrictions actually are .
There are restrictions on importing left hand drive vehicles into New Zealand . It is unlikely that you would be able to purchase a new caravan overseas and successfully import it . From <URL> : Are there restrictions on LHD vehicles ? Yes . Most left-hand drive vehicles have to be converted to right-hand drive ( RHD ) before they can be driven on New Zealand roads . For modern vehicles , this is either very expensive or impractical -- especially if the vehicle has a modern frontal impact protection system ( eg airbags and crumple zones ) . The only vehicles that can be registered as LHD and driven on New Zealand roads are those that belong to one of the specific categories of LHD that are permitted by law . Before going to the expense of importing a LHD vehicle , you should check very carefully that your vehicle is either belongs to one of the permitted categories or is capable of being converted to RHD . Otherwise , you may find it impossible to use the vehicle on New Zealand roads . Additionally , New Zealand Customs has an information page on <URL> . There are concessions on taxes for residents importing certain vehicles , which would imply that non-residents may still be permitted to import such vehicles but are not eligible for the concessions . <URL> indicates that motorhomes attract both 15 % GST plus an additional 10 % duty . If you intend to take your vehicle with you when you leave , Customs states : Temporary entry -- tourist motor vehicles If you are a tourist you may import a motor vehicle into New Zealand without payment of Customs charges , provided your intention is to take the vehicle out of New Zealand at the conclusion of your visit . However , even in this case you would still be required to properly register the vehicle with NZTA for use on New Zealand roads . You would almost certainly be better off buying a ( used ? ) caravan in New Zealand and selling it when you are done . This will likely be considerably less expensive and time-consuming than attempting to import a vehicle . ( Even if you were to successfully import a vehicle , you may not be able to use it for weeks or months as it passes through customs , biosecurity , licensing paperwork , and so on . )
The US Government does n't publicly specify how it decides on a person 's eligibility for a visa , hence there can be no " official " answer to your query . In general , your local embassy will only know that you applied for the Green Card Lottery , if you are selected as those names are sent to the embassy , non-selected names that are not . But they do ask if you have previously applied . And so it is up to you to decide on how honest to be . What an immigration lawyer told me ( a neighbor ) is that if your qualifications are solid for the visa , having applied for the lottery has little effect . But if you are borderline , then it becomes a bigger factor .
end question
start question
Sydney to Perth on the Indian Pacific , what is included ?
The " Red Service Sleeper Cabin " is 2nd class and they indeed have power outlets . At least in 2007 I charged my laptop to watch movies on the train . I heard beforehand that the food is n't that great at least not worth the money , so I brought food to cater myself . Bring a book and lots of movies/series to watch . I 'm not sure about the booking ahead . I just provide you links to <URL> and <URL> . source : <URL>
Tatkal tickets are exactly the same as normal tickets , except on a priority quota . You do n't need any special documents to book or travel with those tickets . ( Source : My dad 's general manager at Indian Railways ) With the changes in rules , you need to provide ID number of any document such as PAN Card or Driving Licence or Passport of one of the passengers in the reservation form and produce the same to the TT when he/she comes to check your ticket in the train .
Since you 're connecting Qantas to Qantas , you 're entitled to use the <URL> . Basically : On checkin in Melbourne , you 'll get boarding passes for both flights and your bags will be checked straight through to SCL . ( This means they 'll be transferred through SYD for you , you do n't need to pick them up or anything . ) On arrival at SYD T3 , look for the Qantas Transfer Lounge at Gate 15 . From here you can take a Qantas bus directly to T1 . On arrival at T1 , go up to Departures and proceed straight to security ( yes , again ) and immigration . And yes , if Qantas sold you connecting tickets , 90 minutes is sufficient , although only barely ( IIRC that 's the minimum allowed ) . You should be OK if your flights are on time , but even if it comes in late , Qantas will put you on the next flight -- although for SCL , that might mean waiting a day .
If you are in Suwon , the very first thing you should do is to try suwon galbi . Suwon is one of the best places in South Korea to try galbi . Also , do n't forget to visit Hwasong , a fortress which was built after imjin japanse invasion . There is also a famous amusement park in Korea near suwon called , ' everland ' . Plan on spending about 2-3 days to look around and try things I suggested above and you should be good .
Adding a new answer since this needs an update : there 's now a new choice in town , namely the <URL> . As of Jan 2015 , it covers all public transport in Sydney and nearby , including trains , ferries , buses and light rail . Opal is your standard pay-per-use ' smartcard ' , just tap on and tap off every time you get on/off a vehicle . Some noteworthy catches/features : You pay for distance travelled , so long trips cost more . Every vehicle you use is charged separately , so train to ferry to bus means three fares , no discounts . ( Bus-bus , train-train , ferry-ferry transfers are free though . ) On trains ( only ) , you automatically get off-peak discounts when applicable . There 's a daily cap of $ 15 , which is handy especially for ferries , which get pretty expensive pretty fast otherwise . There 's also a weekly cap of 8 " trips " , after which all travel is free . ( Note that just transferring does n't start a new trip , you need to wait an hour for it to count . ) On Sundays you can travel all you want for just $ 2.50 . The airport access fee is not covered by any of these special rules , and must be paid in full each time . You can pick up an Opal for " free " at the airport , major stations ( not all though ! ) , 7/11s , newsagents , etc , paying only for the value you load onto it ( minimum $ 10 , IIRC ) . For time being , the MyMulti card covered in Gagravarr 's answer still exists , and a weekly MyMulti for the appropriate zone may be a better option depending on your travel patterns , particularly if you 'll be transferring a lot . The <URL> calculator can help you compare your options . ( Disclaimer : I wrote it ! ) But sometime in 2015 , they 'll pull the weekly MyMulti too ( they 've already killed off monthlies and longer ) , and Opal will be the only game in town .
This will most depend on your own pace , so this is hard to predict . However , <URL> we can find that the PCT association recommends 6 to 8 months for the entire trail . Starting near San Francisco ( at Lake Tahoe , still hundreds of kilometres from San Francisco ? ) , you seem to be able to start near the <URL> , which starts at mile 1092 , out of the total 2659 mi ( 4279km ) . Therefore a quick , absolutely imprecise computation ( ( 2659-1092 ) / 2659x6-8 months ) gives us an order of magnitude of 4 to 6 months . This is obviously a very rough estimate and if you are ready for this commitment , you know what daily distance you can achieve . Achieving the 1600 miles in less than 90 days means an average of 18 miles a day , without rest days and without refill stops . This is certainly doable for an experienced hiker , but if your time frame is constrained , you should probably find easily accessible trail heads for a shorter section of the trail .
NOLI is used to indicate that the Terminal Tax has not been paid for flights . I am not sure what the letters stand for .
According to flypeach <URL> : Fees and charges are quoted in the currency of your first point of origin This is typical for airline websites , but online travel agents often allow you to book in the currency of your choice . If you wish to view the price in an alternate currency , then you could install a web page currency conversion plugin .
Yes , at T1 ( International Terminal ) and T2 ( Domestic Terminal ) . I was there in 2011 but ca n't remember the details ( except that I did use internet connection at the airport ) . Anyway , <URL> is a good memory aid , and several tips from 2011 and 2012 say there 's indeed wifi available . <URL> : Free wifi all over with the " FREE WIFI BY EXPEDIA SYD " network . Just choose a destination and flight number . <URL> : You get free and fast wifi here ! <URL> : Free wifi in the international terminal ( T1 ) <URL> : Aquí el wifi gratis funciona !!! Update : The <URL> also confirms this : Free Wi-Fi is available throughout International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) . Sydney Airport now provides free Wi-Fi for all travellers at both the Domestic ( T2 ) and International ( T1 ) Terminals . You can use any Wi-Fi enabled device to connect including your laptop , smartphone or tablet . Simply select " Free Internet by sponsors name &amp; SYD " from the list of available networks , answer the questions , read the terms and conditions and click " Proceed " . You will be shown a sponsored message then directed to a website . From there you can browse the internet for up to 2 hours and 500MB of data . Coverage is provided throughout the entire International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) .
Clothes Wear confortable clothes . Try everything heavily before travelling . Remember that you will do the same leg movement for several hours . Seams or other similar things rubbing the skin will " burn " and to the limit hurt . Take lite clothes to cycle . Even with cold weather you will heat up . Weight Try not taking more than 20Kg ( the less the better as you can imagine ) Eating and drinking Carry a lot of water ( and drink it ) . Remeber that 1Lt water = 1Kg and that 's weight you will carry so manage well you water reserve . Prefer carbohydrates Small cereal and chocolate bars are excellent snacks . ( Try to avoid too much chocolate or sweet things though , including " sugar " drinks . These will make you more thirsty ) . Cooking I am not sure it fits your situation but considering you will be cycling and camping it might be a good idea to take some cooking gear . Now and than it 's good to be able to prepare a warm meal or drink something warm . Tea , for example , is a nice drink to carry if you like it . Just take a small camping stove and a camping cooking kit . You can find these for very affordable prices and lite enough . If you 're in a " <URL> " you can also <URL> . Tools Before departure you should do a checkup on your bike . Brakes , brake cables and the tire condition is fundamental . Put oil on the chains and other mechanical parts . Take the tools you need to do minimal repairs . Choose carefully to avoid weight . Most good quality bicycles only need one or two types of tools to do standard repairs like adjusting brakes or removing a wheel . Think of what are the most commons things that can happen and prepare for those situations . Some examples are flat tires ( very common ) , adjust brakes ( after few hundred km 's you will need that ) , broken chain ( rare , discussable , but the tool to fix it is small ) . Take a tube to replace in case of a flat tire , and a tube repair kit . A small pump is also important . Sleeping There is not much to say here . Reduce your needs to the bare minimum . Take whatever you really need , as small as possible and adequate to the weather conditions . Of course like all camping ( and biking ) gear smaller means either less resistant , less warm or a lot more expensive . Try to balance your needs . Physical preparation / finishing successfully It 's good that you have some preparation . You should at least enjoy cyicling and do it regulary . It 's important to know your limits and plan the Kms/day you will do . Above that , the most important thing is will . If you really want to do it you will do it . Listen your body though and allways have plan B ( eg. : extra meal , extra water for emergencies , extra stop points planned etc. ) in case you have to rest or stop earlier in the day . You should also be prepared to skip a scheduled night stop . It can happen that you plan a place to stay and upon arrival you discover you ca n't stay there for some reason . Last words Avoid carrying things on your back . Try to put everything on the bike . You will probably need a back support and double bags . This depends a lot on the terrain , but if you 're going in a flat clean road ) even if it 's unpaved/dirt you can use the maximum pressure in the tires . It will be easier to cycle . If you start " feeling " too much the ground decrease the pressure a bit . It will increase safety and comfort ( it will be a bit harder to cycle though ) . You have to evaluate it yourself . Do n't try any " stunts " with the bicycle . Even if the stunt is not that big deal like climbing a small step . The center of gravity of the bike shifted and its behavior is completely different with the extra load . You can easily get a flat tire or worse fall and injure yourself or break something on the bike jeopardizing the trip . I learned that the hard way . I was lucky enough not to jeopardize the trip but it was a short miss .
There 's two close to that there I 'm aware of . Mountain Designs City Crag . Located within the Mountain Designs store ( go right to the back and its on the left ) at 499 Kent st. Sydney ( about 2 blocks from Centrepoint ) . This has closed and re-opened at least a few times over the past few years , so it 'd be worth calling first to see if they are actually still in operation . <URL> Pitt st Mall . Sydney . I 've never been here , so I 've got no idea what their access rules are ( eg , whether you need a membership , or if you can just do a single visit ) If you 're willing to go a few stops on a train there 's a few other options : <URL> at St Peters ( Unit 4C/1 -7 Unwins Bridge Road ) which is probably the largest in Sydney , and <URL> at St Leonards ( Unit 4/12 Frederick St )
It 's likely to be about 10C at overnight . It might be a little cooler before dawn .
One journalist did attempt to <URL> - both the artificial labs and the natural spaces . He details it in his book - <URL> if you 'd like to read it . The highlights in nature : Several years ago , the Campaign to Protect Rural England declared a <URL> the most tranquil place in the country ( when the nearby military base is n't doing training exercises ) . 12 such quiet places exist in the US , with more found around the world . A spot in the <URL> in Washington is one , as are places in <URL> in Canada , <URL> in Minnesota and <URL> in Hawaii ( see gallery ) . The others , however , he keeps confidential . On the other hand , he identified a quiet place deep in the <URL> , he suspects other such places in Poland , Norway , Sweden and Finland Recently , <URL> was created to show the quiet spots on a summer day . So that gives some idea for sound levels in the US . As you 'd expect - away from people , cities , and wildlife tends to produce quiet , although windy areas also affect it . Aside from nature , he points out the quietest places are custom built , such as the <URL> , in Minnesota . <URL> : " Group tours are available a few times a year and include a brief stop at the anechoic chamber ( call the lab for details ) . But the facility has had so much interest in the 45-minute challenge that the founder Steven Orfield is considering making that option available to the public within the next year , and is working with the Guinness Book of World Records to establish an official record for the longest time spent in an anechoic chamber . The 45-minute challenge will not come cheap , however , as companies renting the space normally pay $ 300 to $ 400 an hour , and someone trained from the lab must be able to supervise the participants to ensure their safety . " UPDATE : As of this month , Microsoft now officially holds the Guinness World Record for quietest place on earth - <URL> .
Right , firstly according to <URL> , each airline has different chime meanings . However , on <URL> , we have a list of all of the chimes - but presumably it 's for a specific plane , and it does n't say which : Generally they are as follows : - 1 x chime for a passenger call bell 2 x chimes if the crew are calling each other 2 x chimes to indicate takeoff and landing 5 x hi / low chimes an emergency !!! 2x bong !! for the seatbelt sign flashing for top of climb for crew to be released and same again for crew to be seated for landing ! 3x Chimes if toilet smoke detector activated 1x Chime for toilet call bell 1x HIGH , HIGH LOW Chime for emergency Interphone call to Manager 1x LOW LOW HIGH Chime for Crew help needed ! If you listen carefully the are two tones of call chime . A high and a low . These will vary depending on operator and aircraft type ! This is confirmed again on <URL> , where they show that for Canadian Airlines it 's as follows : 1 bell - passenger call , lav call , change in cabin signs , five minute warning prior to landing , crew communication via interphone 2 bells - F/A to contact the flight deck for a message 3 bells - Take-off or landing imminent - take your jump seat 5 bells on the ground - evacuate 5 bells inflight - F/A to report immediately to the flight deck to receive emergency instructions The same forums have <URL> , so it would certainly seem to vary from company to company .
Security rules prohibit casual visitors entering a cruise ship while in port , for same security reasons that keep folks from wandering into an aircraft parked at an airport . But as always there are exceptions ... Travel agents can pre-arrange to inspect a ship when it is in port , but this comes with strings attached , such as the volume of business your agency has sent to that cruise line , being escorted around the ship by a crew member , restrictions as to which ports this is possible , etc Some cruise lines and/or ports allow family members onboard during initial boarding at the port of embarkation . But not usually at stops during the cruise .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
I actually almost answered this question in your other question :) . Simply put , Indian railways has a very very powerful backend development team ( their reservations were running fine with a cross country network when internet was still unheard of ) , however their front-end team is amateur at best . <URL> which is a reasonably good portal is not owned and operated by Indian Railways , this allows you to reserve your train tickets . However , your answer has to be <URL> , they use the data from Indian Railways website and so they are reliable ( 99 % of the times , but its easy to double check once you zone in on a specific route from the official site ) . They use google maps to demonstrate travel routes , show fares for each class , even link to live train arrival and departure , all using a simple ajax based interface . You just need to know the places you are going to and you are good to go . Finally , <URL> is surprisingly good for travel in India , when they introduced their services ( probably 4 years ago ) the first test I did was from a remote village ( where I worked with Indian Railways ) where the only mode of transport is a train and they had spot on results , I have been shocked by their accuracy many times ( including while trying to answer your previous question about Sambalpur ) .
TL ; DR : If you have < $ 1000 - < $ 2000 worth of money , use a travel card ( you can easily get one from Axis Bank ) otherwise use a wire transfer for either your Bank Account or from a Forex Service . I happen to have a BoA account as well , so I do this quite often . In India , in order to transfer money to the US , you have three options , Use your local bank in which you have an account with all that money in it . If you have most of your money in cash , then your best bet is to deposit this in an account because that 's what they will need in order to wire transfer to BoA . This would ideally be the easiest way if your money is already in a bank account . Axis Bank is one of the better bank which you could do this with , because they provide a lot of forex services such as travel cards and all as well . Use remittance services with a leading foreign exchange service such as <URL> . They might be willing to take cash as well but they might require you to write them a check from a bank account . If you absolutely want to use cash , I think a PAN Card would be required in order to make sure that the cash can be associated to your account for taxation purposes . Get a free <URL> or any other service and load that with all your money in it and make a withdrawal using any ATM in the US and deposit all the money in your BoA account using the Travel Card . Now , let 's talk about the costs , Unforunately this depends more on your negotiation skills that anything else , for a small amount i.e < $ 1000 , carrying in your Travel Card would be a better option , otherwise , using one of the two services I mentioned is better . Now , I have gotten better rates from the bank as well as 3rd party dealers with respect to Forex Bank Transfers but typically for larger amounts i.e > $ 10000 you are looking at an additional rate of about 0.3 - 0.5 % . For the travel card , the rate is usually 1 % is the norm . Note : BoA will charge you about $ 12 for an incoming wire transfer whereas the banks I mentioned might charge you a flat fee of about $ 10 or Rs . 500 for both travel cards and wire transfers . As you might expect , these depend on the Bank/Forex Service . If you carry the travel card and you withdraw money from the card , a fee of $ 2 is usually charged by the withdrawing ATM ( in this case a BoA ATM ) and of course to deposit the money into your account , ( maximum of $ 800 per transaction in both cases i.e if you have more , then you need to withdraw and deposit multiple times ) . Lastly , what documentation do you require , Simple , all you need is the Swift Code <URL> of the bank and the Bank Account ( either Checking or Saving , any one is OK ) number you wish to transfer to and although not required , but the branch of the bank will be additional information which wo n't hurt . Basically any information which is required to uniquely identify the transaction to your unique account . To add , I would be highly surprised if you carried a major amount of money outside India in INR . This is not allowed as per the FEMA act and is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , Residents are free to take outside India ( other than to Nepal and Bhutan ) currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank of India notes up to an amount not exceeding Rs . 10,000 - per person . More information about the same has also been discussed earlier on this website , check this question , <URL> In case you did though , there is not much you can do with it , because it is ultimately illegal and if you turn up with that sum of money in Indian Rupees anywhere outside India , you will turn heads and you risk confiscation of that money .
The UK Business Visitor Visa is <URL> so your question has limited life . The new rules will be posted at Immigration Rules <URL> On the start date ( 24 April ) of the new rules , your BVV will automatically convert to a Visitor ( standard ) visa . You do n't have to do anything for this to happen . People who hold a valid visit visa that was issued prior to 24 April 2015 can use this to enter the UK provided they are still a genuine visitor . They will be able to use this visa to carry out the additional permitted activities . For example , a person with a business visit visa can use this to enter the UK for a holiday or to receive private medical treatment . Source : email from the Home Office to UK lawyers sent on 3 March 2015 The Visitor ( standard ) visa allows you enjoy tourism or business or recreational coursework for as much as you want on multiple visits until it expires . For your other questions , you will always have a landing interview with a British Immigration Officer who will determine if you still qualify . They will look at the same paperwork you originally used with your application so you should bring it along . As long as you are still a genuine visitor , you will have no problems . Adding As always , during a transitional period when old rules change to new rules , it 's advisable to carry a print-out of the relevant rule with you .
I do n't know about other places , but when I visited Istanbul a few years ago I had the opportunity of seeing a ceremony of Whirling Dervishes in the former train station of Sirkeci ( where the Orient Express used to end its journey ) . It is held in the evening , I think more than once a week ( but I was there in late December , so perhaps it was more frequent than in other periods of the year ) . The tickets could be bought at the ticket office in the train station . I do n't know whether you are deeply interested in Sufi philosophy and traditions or if you are just curious ( the way we were ) ; if the latter holds , you may have a look at <URL> or even <URL> . If you are interested in getting in closer contact with this group , you may want to visit <URL> .
end question
start question
Which ATMs in Germany have the lowest fees for the foreign Visa debit cards ?
When you have a card from another EU-country , it 's possible that your bank has a partnership with one or more German banks and those will have the lowest fees . You should ask your bank . At the airports and train stations there are some ATMs that have very high fee - avoid those . Use only ATMs that belong to banks ( Postbank , Deutsche Bank , Sparkasse , Citi Bank etc. . ) . I think that Sparkasse and Volksbank do n't have low fees , but I 'm not 100 % sure . Before every withdrawal , the ATM will show you the fee and you can confirm or cancel .
In my case , after formal letter exchange with American Embassy in Italy , a B1 visa was required . Supporting documents to get a B1 visa are listed here : <URL> And an interview at the Embassy is also nedeed . You 'll get asked the purpouse of your visit and other related questions . In my specific case I have already a work here in Italy to be started in the months following my trip to the U.S. so it was easy to prove my non-immigrant intent . Also I showed emails between me and the Department that 's hosting me and non-disclosure agreement with their hospital . Another important part of the interview was showing them a bank account balance that would suffice to self-fund myself during my staying . I honestly do n't know why VWP is n't suitable for this , but I think sending an email to your local American Embassy is the best option since each case is different .
From <URL> : Language : Serbian 90.1 % ( official ) , Hungarian 3.8 % , Romany ( Gypsy ) 1.1 % , other 4.1 % , unknown 0.9 % ( 2002 census ) So in that respect , Hungarian is the next best bet . However , that 's ' official ' languages and was a 2002 Census - if you keep on top of world affairs , things have changed a lot in that area since then . So reading further down the same page : Serbs are warm people , especially towards tourists . They are very welcoming towards tourists , of which there are not many as the country 's full potential has yet to be reached ! Most Serbs speak some English and are eager to speak it ( seniors , however , are more likely to speak German and/or French ) , so you will be able to find your way around by asking directions . Most tourists come to Serbia in the summer and you can often hear German , Italian , French and English in the streets of Belgrade , while Slovenian tourists pour for New Year holidays . So based on that - English is a pretty good bet , if you speak that ( which it seems you do ) - ask the young people questions for a better success rate . If you speak German or French , I 'd be asking older people for directions etc. .
Unless it is a significant amount , changing coins is n't worth it . The amounts are small and most banks and foreign exchanges wo n't accept coins generally . My solution is to collect the left over foreign coins until I fly on an airline that participates in the <URL> program and then donate them . British Airways and Virgin also have their own programs . It is a great concept as a small amount of foreign coins is n't very valuable to you , but when compounded across thousands of passengers a year , it can make a real difference . If you do n't want to wait until your next flight to donate , many charity shops ( at least in the UK ) accept foreign coins .
According to <URL> , Visa Electron is accepted in South Korea in many ATMs ( make sure to choose the bank from the drop down menu ) . Also , According to <URL> Cirrus ATM cards are the most widely accepted in Korea .
Coming from New Zealand , when I arrived in the UK I had one of the credit cards that I had n't gotten around to putting a pin on . But without fail , as long as there was a person there , they 'd be happy to let me sign for it - and they 'd usually request a form of ID to compare with . In theory a pin is more secure , but signing is still perfectly valid . I then got myself a chipped and pinned debit card while living there , so I did n't end up using my NZ one that often , but when I did , it worked . I had a bit more trouble in Central Asian countries , but a bit of hand waving and you 'd usually get the message across ;)
When you have a card from another EU-country , it 's possible that your bank has a partnership with one or more German banks and those will have the lowest fees . You should ask your bank . At the airports and train stations there are some ATMs that have very high fee - avoid those . Use only ATMs that belong to banks ( Postbank , Deutsche Bank , Sparkasse , Citi Bank etc. . ) . I think that Sparkasse and Volksbank do n't have low fees , but I 'm not 100 % sure . Before every withdrawal , the ATM will show you the fee and you can confirm or cancel .
Many airlines do offer discounted tickets for children between the ages of 2-12 and fares are typically 2/3rds to 3/4ths of a full adult fare . Because the number of tickets is limited and airlines offering such rates on various routes are n't the same , the best advice I can give is to try a search on travel sites like <URL> , <URL> , <URL> et al ( <URL> is a surprising omission because it offers no way of choosing children / senior travellers ) and specify you 're travelling with children . In this particular case , you will be better off search with ' online travel agents ' like Travelocity than ' search engines ' like Kayak , as the former are more likely to offer special deals negotiated with airlines for children .
<URL> applies : No , you do not need a visa for going from the US to India via Frankfurt airport ( or vice versa ) , as long as you stay in the transit area and have a connection in less than 12 hours . <URL> , emphasis mine : Indian nationals can Transit without Visa via FRA or MUC if holding a valid visa for the destination and a valid Visa for any of the following countries : Bulgaria , Canada , Cyprus , Ireland , Japan , Liechtenstein , Romania , UK and USA ( the approval notice I-797 is not valid document for visa free airport transit ) . <URL> confirms this as well .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
I went to Seoul in summer 2015 and I could use my Visa everywhere . I can not tell if there are some places which will reject your mastercard , most likely there will be but I 've stayed there for a month and I could pay and withdraw money without any issue . As far as I know , Koreans have plenty of credit cards and they use it on daily basis so you should not have trouble using yours . ;) I did not have my Mastercard so I could not try but most ATM were compatible with it . I did n't check for American Express since I do n't own an AE card . EDIT : see more details <URL> and <URL> EDIT2 : as said in one of the link , do n't forget to notify your bank that you 'll use your card abroad ... For security matter my bank was denying any operation from abroad , I had to tell them where I was and the dates of my travel . NB : I used a Visa credit card issued by French bank .
Manuel , apparently there 's a document called ARB , Autorização de Retorno ao Brasil ( " Authorization to Return to Brazil " ) . I first found it on <URL> , then I found it on the <URL> . Sadly , I could not find any link on that subject in a website from brazilian consulate or embassy in Australia . In short , ARB it is a document valid for a single trip back to Brazil . Once in the country , it will be seized by the authorities and you 'll need to renew your Brazilian passport before leaving the country ( or use your Australian one ) . I 'm sure you can call your nearest consulate in Australia and obtain this document that will allow you to come back to Brazil .
First of all , it does n't matter where you 're flying from . What really matter is what airline you are flying with , so the short answer is : it depends . Some airlines , in an attempt to fight frauds , may ask you to show the card and if you fail to do so they CAN refuse to embark you . I once flew Royal Jordanian from Milano Malpensa to Amman and I was asked to show the credit card . Since I paid that flight with my father credit card , I did n't have it with me . They refused to embark me and I had to call home and make my father fax a self-certfication signed by him along with a copy of the credit card used to book the flight . Another time I was leaving from Amsterdam to Atlanta flying Delta and I was asked the same . That time I had my credit card with me and I pass the control flawlessly . Always read the conditions very carefully . It 's always stated somewhere if they may ask you to show the card or not . If unsure , write an email or call them . Here some examples : <URL> [ click on " What happens if I do n't comply with the credit card verification requirements ? " ] If the booker does not bring his or her card used for the booking at check-in for verification , then passengers on the booking will not be allowed to check in and will be asked to purchase a new ticket using a new credit/debit card . However , the ticket price will remain the same . A refund will then be manually processed for the earlier purchased ticket . <URL> On the Enter billing information page where the credit card details are entered , if the " Cardholder name " can be typed in , you would be able to pay for the booking even if you are not travelling . If the " Cardholder name " appears in a drop-down menu and can not be changed , you would unfortunately not be able to pay for the booking unless you are travelling . In some countries , for security reasons , the holder of the credit card used to book a ticket or group of tickets must be one of the travellers on that itinerary , and will be required to show the actual credit card at the airport check-in counter prior to receiving boarding passes . Skywards members may make a redemption booking for friends and family , and pay for the applicable taxes online with their own credit cards , if the country of departure offers credit card payment . Business Rewards administrators may also pay for their organizations members bookings by credit card , if the country of departure offers credit card payment . <URL> [ click on the credit card link ] To safeguard against credit/debit card fraud , the purchaser may have to show us the credit/debit card along with a valid photo ID . The time varies based on the billing address of the credit/debit card or the country of travel . If the purchaser is not traveling , they can show us their credit/debit card and ID at an airport ticket counter or another ticket office location , whichever is most convenient . <URL> Due to increased credit card fraud problems , Air France does not accept third party payments ( the credit card holder not being the passenger or part of the group traveling together ) . Exception : We allow payments for family members with the same surname . Please make sure the family member you book for brings the personal identifier you specified during booking to check in at the airport or to Customs and Immigration if required ( this applies to e-tickets only ) . <URL> If you have booked directly with British Airways , either through ba.com or a British Airways Telephone Sales office , and you paid with your debit / credit card you must present that debit / credit card at check-in . This is to assist the check-in process and to provide debit / credit card verification .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
This <URL> as long as you do not publish the video . In case you want to , you need to pixelate license plates and faces . Also you are not allowed to have a specific person " in focus " , meaning : You are not allowed to sit in the car and point it at specific people . Regarding your comment , having a camera in there that does not record is perfectly fine , no need to remove it . You can present the camera in Germany in case there is an accident but the validity of the video as a proof has to be decided by the judge . So while there is no guarantee , the chances are high of course that this will help you a lot . Be careful though : If the police takes the camera as a proof and finds you crossing red lights earlier in the video , they can take that as a proof to get you in return .
I 'm currently in Chile and have withdrawn money on several occasions . So far , once I 've aborted my withdrawal because the machine told me it was going to charge for my withdrawal . This , while , later , an ATM from the same bank did not charge . I 've tried with 3 or 4 different banks . This suggests to me that ATM withdrawal fees depend not on the bank , but on the ATM . Note , though , that my girlfriend , who does have a card from a bank in a different country to mine , does get charged ( and told she will ) , by ATMs that do n't charge me .
From the <URL> : Transit passengers who do not clear customs will not have access to any ATM in Incheon Airport . The only ATMs at Incheon airport are outside the sacred circle of customs . So if you need cash when you land at Incheon , you have to clear customs . There are two currency exchanges on the transit side that will exchange money into Korean won , as well as most stores/restaurants accepting US dollars and some other currencies .
You 'd have to verify this , but Las Vegas could be an option . However , the question is whether your country of residence accepts this marriage ; contacting the US consulate of your home country might be a good idea ; they would also be able to tell you what you 'd have to do to validate your marriage before you leave the US .
No , it 's not the same . Whether that 's the case for a given journey will depend on a few details but , unlike the US , there is no blanket requirement to pick up your luggage and walk it through customs when entering Germany or the EU . Usually , in Europe , your luggage will be routed to your final destination and you will clear customs there . You have n't provided much detail but I expect it wo n't be necessary to collect your luggage in this case . However , immigration formalities ( passport check by the police , Schengen entry stamp , etc. ) will have to be completed in Munich . There is some info on transit time in Munich in <URL>
Dörtyol Ticaret Merkezi Misafirhanesi , which apparently means " trade centre guesthouse " had a room with shared bathroom available for 12 Azeri manat as of August last year . That 's about 11 euro or $ 15 USD currently . This comes from somebody calling themself <URL> on <URL> Apparently the cheapest option according to the author .
end question
start question
How to deal with excess baggage ?
There are basically three options : 1 . Check excess baggage on the flight ( s ) you are taking . 2 . Use a plain-old courier service to send the baggage . 3 . Use a " Baggage Service " . Of course , there are pros and cons to each mainly with respect to cost and convenience . Cost Comparison The cost of checking excess baggage is usually dramatically less expensive than using a courier or baggage service . There is <URL> in forum chat . You can also get a good sense simply by comparing shipping costs using a courier estimator ( <URL> ) with the cost of excess baggage on your flight ( s ) ( <URL> ) . As a concrete real-world example , on a recent trip from YVR to OGG I checked an additional item which cost me $ 20 CAD . The $ 20 CAD + tax permitted the item to weigh up to 50 pounds or $ 0.40 per pound . I also took that same additional item on a regional flight to YVR . That leg cost me $ 0.65 CAD + tax per pound for a total of $ 1.18 per pound . On the same trip I also couriered an item from the same originating town to the same destination town where I was travelling - this is an apples-to-apples comparison . The item weighed 40 pounds and cost $ 219.09 CAD taxes included for a cost of $ 5.48 per pound . There were no duties incurred as the item was imported as unaccompanied baggage ( see customs and duties below ) . So , in concrete numbers , the cost of couriering an item in this case was between 4x and 5x the cost of checking baggage . I do n't have concrete experience with a " Baggage Service " , but the one estimate I was able to produce was approximately 20 % less than the final Fedex cost . Another site for Canada to the USA offers <URL> . These estimates , however , are not quotations , so I can only assume that the estimates are optimistic . There is one case where couriering excess baggage can cost less : Multi-destination journeys . For example , suppose you are going golfing in St. Bart 's ( do people golf there ? ) from London . But first , you are visiting family in Quebec , doing some business in Chicago , and going to a wedding in Florida , before going to your final destination . Your golf clubs might cost you a baggage fee on each of the four or five legs of that journey , so it could work out cheaper to just courier them to St. Bart 's . Convenience Checking excess baggage requires no pre-planning but you have to physically handle your baggage for much of the trip . This can become a pain in the following circumstances : you are physically unable to fit all of your baggage on an airport cart or in a single taxi cab you are too small/weak/tired / ill to move your baggage from the curb to/from baggage check/claim your itinerary involves multiple baggage claims/rechecks , complicated terminal transfers , or public transit Shipping via courier or excess baggage service avoids baggage complications while traveling , but requires organization and logistics before and after the trip . Generally , this involves a bunch of paperwork/online form filling , scheduling a pickup or dropping off the baggage , then picking up the baggage near your destination . Altogether , takes a significant amount more time time than checking bags . Limiting Factors There are certain circumstances that rule out one option or another . Most airlines have hard limits on the size and weight of checked baggage . If the item you want to check exceeds the limit , you simply can not take it on the plane with you . These limits are usually disclosed on the airlines ' websites and are also printed on the terms and conditions of the itinerary you receive from the airline . Heavy , large , and odd-shaped items that are checked are more likely to end up in an unexpected place in the baggage claims area . Tracking them down can take time ( think an extra hour or so ) . This is not a big deal if you are at the end of your final leg . However , if you have a tight connection to a flight/train/boat your excess baggage can easily cause you to miss it . Small planes can only carry so much baggage . If you are on a small plane at capacity with passengers , it likely has only a small amount of remaining capacity ( if any ) for excess baggage . Again , this is not big problem if it is the last leg of your journey . However , if you need to catch a connecting flight , you 'll have to wait for the next flight of that small plane that has capacity to take your baggage . This usually means you 'll miss your next flight ( and the flight after that , etc ) . For couriering items , you need to have a suitable destination address to ship to . Residences are generally a poor destination address to use . It is unpredictable when the delivery will happen , so ensuring that someone will be home is difficult . There are also areas where the courier driver will not even attempt to deliver and just hold it at a depot somewhere . Specifying to hold a package at a specific courier depot is quite predictable and avoids your item from ending up in the depot other side of town/island/region by chance . Courier transit times
The bag will remain on the claim belt until eventually an airport worker removes it and takes it to lost property . If the claim belt is used for many flights at a busy airport then of course that could be a long time ( all day , perhaps ) . It is not unusual for international bags to go unclaimed for a long time ( many hours perhaps ) because of immigration delays . In most places bag delivery is contracted out to the local airport or a local contractor , so the airline will not be concerned . The bag tag barcode on the bag identifies the baggage in the global baggage computer system . Information there also includes your name and telephone number , which might be used to contact you . However in all probability no one will care that much . Some identification may be required to retrieve the bag later . If there is a customs concern the airport may be unable to release the bag to you until that is settled . When there was a problem at London Gatwick last year , British Airways told customers to go home instead of waiting all night ; their bags were subsequently delivered to them by courier .
I see you 've already found Perama , which is the largest cruise/ferry operator around Lombok , and they 're quoting Rp 1.3 million for a deck fare , which sounds about right ( ~ US$ 110 ) . There are other operators , but I doubt you 're going to find anything substantially cheaper , and if you do it 'll be cheap for a reason ( <URL> ) . Even Perama is <URL> , but hey , Indonesia ' gitulah , it 's either that or fly and Merpati is n't much better . What you can do , though , is negotiate your own package where you just combine the dates/bits you 're interested in -- since there are 4 to 6 of you , you 'll have a fair amount of bargaining power . I would n't even bother trying to sort this out beforehand , just show up at the Perama shop in Labuanbajo and see what they can do .
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
Some crazy variant : put your bottle into the bag , after that place it into the box , and add the polyurethane foam : It 'll save your bottle , and after the flight you can easily remove it with knife .
There 's at least two separate facets to consider here . Legally , you 're in the clear . Restrictions covering <URL> and <URL> only require you to declare amounts exceeding EUR 10,000 . Norway , however , being outside the EU , <URL> ( ~ EUR 2,800 at time of writing ) or face a 20 % penalty , although it 's a little unclear to me where/how exactly you 're supposed to declare if coming from a fellow Schengen country . Safety is a bigger concern , as carrying around EUR 9,000 just seems like a really bad idea . The right thing to do would be to deposit it at a Latvian bank , declare its origin and pay any applicable taxes , and then you can transfer it easily to other countries , withdraw it from ATMs , use it to pay credit card bills , etc. . If you wish to stick to plain old cash , then <URL> and <URL> have some advice for you , although most of it boils down to " do n't " . In short , divide your money in multiple places , preferably directly on your body but in unobvious places ( hidden pockets in pants , etc ) -- this way you minimize the risk of losing them through both theft and violent robbery . The latter is n't a huge concern in Sweden or Norway , although one of the three times somebody has tried to pickpocket me did occur in Stockholm 's T-Centralen ...
I phoned TfL to find the answer to this . It 's simple and straightforward : The rate depends on when you touch in . Peak fares apply from 06:30 to 09:29 and from 16:00 to 18:59 Monday to Friday ( excluding public holidays ) . Off-peak fares apply at all other times . That is , if you touch in during those two three-hour periods , you will be charged the peak fare . If your journey starts in off-peak time but strays into the peak period , it 's still an off-peak fare .
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
From the information provided online it seems that you may only have to pay for a date change which is as follows : Flight change fee 50 % of the original fare . Minimum and maximum amount of the fee is shown in the table . via wizzair.com Per flight , per passenger $ 10.00 - $ 60.00 / # 9.00 - # 53.00 <URL> This accounts for the original fare only . The baggage which you purchased is a separate add-on just like WIZZ Xpress priority boarding etc ; so they wo n't account to date changes . If you are still not satisfied you should contact there customer service @ 0330 977 0444 ( UK Number )
If it 's booked as one trip with the same airline , then the lugggage will be checked through to the final destination with a very high likelihood . To be absolutely certain , ask the Lufthansa employee at the counter when you check in in Chennai .
The Eurostar arrives at London Kings Cross/St . Pancras . From there you can catch the midland main line ( to Sheffield ) or the east coast main line ( to Newcastle and Edinburgh ) . If you wanted to go to Manchester you 'd need to take the West coast main line from Euston ( a 9 minute tube ride away ) . As long as you do n't mind changing trains , the Eurostar is a perfectly reasonable way of getting to northern England
The aircraft you are flying on use containers for baggage , so even if they were off loaded at the stopover , chances are your bags would remain in the original container they were loaded in . Bags are loaded into containers based on destination to expedite loading and handling . Whether bags are off loaded or not depends on multiple factors from both the airline and airport . As bags are the last thing loaded , so they can be first off upon landing , containers holding through bags may have to also be offloaded to allow cargo to be unloaded .
This happens quite often ( although not as often as it used to ) . Mine was lost probably around dozen times or so . Always made it to me though . You should file a written claim with the airline right at the baggage claim . This usually involves signing the custom forms for international flights ( the airline would clear the luggage through Customs for you ) . You should ask whether they will deliver it to your hotel/apartment/home , and insist they do ( they usually do , unless it is your fault , such as late checkin ) . Note that in some countries - Russia , for example - the airline can not clear Customs for you , so you would have to be at the airport anyway . In this case ask the airline to provide the transportation , or reimburse the transportation costs . You should receive : a ) the claim number and b ) the local phone number or web site URL where you can check the status of your bag . Some better airlines have an Android/iOS app which you can use to track the bag return . You should also ask if any compensation by the airline is due because of the delay - the rules are complex and may depend on origin-destination and connecting airlines , so self-research might be more difficult here . There are rules that the bag is considered lost ( and compensation due ) if it is not delivered within a specific number of days - even if it is found later - worth asking about this too . If you have travel insurance , call the insurance company and file a claim . They typically give you allowance for delayed luggage , usually $ 250-500 a day . Note that your spending has to be relevant to luggage loss ( i.e. not movie tickets ) , the reimbursement is not automatic - you have to submit your receipts for approval - and they do n't pay if the luggage is delayed on your return trip .
Think about what your luggage goes through from the time you check it until you get it back . It travels on automatic conveyor belts . In many situations , it must be shunted from one conveyor belt to another . This is done by machines , not humans . The machines can not see the " fragile " tag . It is moved from conveyor-belt to dolly by a human . The human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . It is packed in the cargo hold by humans . Depending on the orientation of the item , the human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . When they pack it in the cargo hold , they may put other bags on top of it . It spends some time outside , exposed to the elements . No matter how many fragile tags you put on , there will come a point where your suitcase must make its way up the conveyor belt into the aircraft . If it is raining , snowing , cold , or hot , it will be exposed to the elements at this point . It spills out of an automatic conveyor line onto a rotating baggage carousel . As it rotates on the carousel , other bags may fall on top of it . Other passengers may pick it up , thinking it 's their bag , and handle it . When they discover it 's not theirs , they may , or may not , honor the " Fragile " sticker . Oh , and let 's not forget : It flies through the air , at 40,000 feet , at 600 miles per hour . It may encounter bad weather or turbulence , causing intensive shaking of the contents for a prolonged period of time . When all is said and done , it 's a miracle anything gets anywhere unscathed , " fragile " sticker notwithstanding .
I found <URL> . It says all rights reserved so I 'll just link to it . It clearly shows that they take coins credit cards bills I do n't see any indication of change-giving although it 's possible that is below the frame of the picture . Next to the coins slot someone has taped up a diagram of what coins are ok and they appear to be Canadian toonies , loonies , and quarters only . The bills appear to take both Canadian and US bills based on the pictures next to the bill slots - the top two have more colour and are probably Canadian $ 5 and $ 10 and the bottom three look , from a distance , like they might be US ones - $ 1 , $ 5 , and $ 10 would make sense .
It depends on who is at fault for you not being able to claim . If it is the airline 's fault , so they did n't load the bags / bags got lost / bags did n't make a connection etc , you must speak to the airline staff or their ground handler before leaving the baggage hall . They will get you to fill out a form about your bag ( size , colour , make , identifying features etc , plus your details ) . The form will include ( in almost all countries ) a customs waiver/release . When your bag is eventually found / turns up , the airline will take the bag through customs ( assuming customs do n't find something in the bag of interest ... ) , then get the bag to you . However , if it 's not the airlines fault , or you left the baggage hall without completing the missing baggage form , or if customs have taken an interest in your delayed bag , you first need to speak to the airline staff at the airport or their ground handler . ( Note - likely not airline customer services , they probably wo n't know , usually needs to be people actually at the airport in question ) . They will let you know where to go , and what times you can arrive ( it may only be possible at some times of the day ) Once you 're at the airport , you then contact the baggage staff ( maybe via the airport information desk , maybe by phoning them , maybe by using a special phone , maybe by going to a landside desk and having the phone someone , it varies - that 's why you need to speak to someone before getting to the airport ! ) . You 'll then be escorted to airside , often through a staff security channel . You will almost certainly need photo ID , often a passport , and your details will likely be recorded in a log somewhere . Once airside in the baggage hall , you 'll head to the baggage queries desk for your airline or their ground handler , the place you 'd go to report missing bags . They will likely want your baggage receipt tags ( the bits stuck to your passport or boarding pass at checkin ) . They will then go and get your bag , often from a locked storage area somewhere airside . You 'll sign some paperwork , and if it 's your fault possibly pay a storage fee/fine . You and your bag then exit through customs , who quite possibly will pay more attention to you and your bag than they normally would for a typical traveller , so allow extra time ! . The easiest way to avoid all of this faff is to ensure you either collect all your bags on arrival ( if they 're there ) , or speak with the airline / handling agents before leaving the baggage hall to properly report any missing/delayed luggage + fill out the appropriate forms then !
best way was round-trip buis ticket ( A11 ) , costs 65 hk dollars .
OK , here 's the answer . Three hours after making my booking I 've received the following email from National Express : So the answer is to wait a few hours while they issue a ticket .
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
end question
start question
Where can I leave my kids to visit Las Vegas casinos ?
Most of Las Vegas is very family friendly so you should n't have any problem taking the whole family pretty much everywhere . You can visit all the major hotels and attractions with the kids . However , while they are allowed in the hotels , the kids are technically not allowed in the gaming areas so unless you want to actually gamble , you do n't need to leave the kids anywhere . You can still watch a lot of table action from the pathways through the casino though . These are usually noticeable because of different carpet or other delineaters . So long as the kids stay inside the lines , you 're ok .
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
There are a couple ( literally : I saw 2 ) publicly accessible sockets in the primary B terminal , which is nice and modern but very crowded ; both of the sockets I saw were in use , which is n't surprising because there were probably a couple hundred people in the terminal . However , but there are many more sockets in the A terminal , which is older , dirty , and only has four gates , but was almost completely empty ( I had my choice of 10 or so sockets close to seating ) .
How long I need at the peace dome ? It 's just the ruin of a relatively small building to look at from the outside . The whole park , including the <URL> memorial , takes an hour , tops . There 's a museum that probably takes more time , but probably not a good place to take toddlers to . Is Miyajima a whole day trip With toddlers , it 's at least a half day trip . and is it worth seeing in early November ? Very much so ! In fact , that would be one of the best times to visit , as the trees in <URL> should be in full fall splendor . And the kids will love the <URL> . What other things are interesting in Hiroshima There 's a <URL> ( a reconstruction , of course ) with a museum inside and a viewing platform on top . How long public transportation takes From the city center to Miyajima it 's about 45 minutes ( including the ferry ride ) , otherwise everything is in walking distance .
The fascinating <URL> records four visits to ( 0,0 ) . <URL> was by a US Coast Guard vessel that happened to be sailing past , and they took a ( bad ) photo of the buoy too . Visit # 2 is not listed . Mysterious ... <URL> was by a group of artists ( ! ) , who sailed from Hamburg , Germany to <URL> on a cargo ship . There they chartered a boat and sailed almost two days non-stop to get nearby , finally taking a small zodiac ( rubber dinghy ) to the exact spot . This is the only remotely practical option for the average tourist , and also the first and only visit that fully met the Confluence Project 's exacting rules -- but no sign of the buoy !? <URL> was on a research ship sailing from Angola to Europe .
The UK is not part of the Schengen agreement . So you would need a seperate visa . The only situation you would n't is discussed in <URL> .
There appears to be no self-service laundromats or laundrettes in the Peak District proper any more . Instead there are only laundry services in <URL> ( GBP 9 per load ) or <URL> ( GBP 4 per kilogram ) , both of which are decidedly more expensive than doing laundry yourself but correspondingly more convenient . However there are a couple of options just outside the Peak District itself . There is a laundrette in <URL> if you are in the northern half and one in <URL> if you 're staying further south . These are both easily accessible by public transport from various parts in the Peak District depending upon your location .
Right after security checks ( at least in the terminal I used ) there were two changing rooms that are probably used for extra security checks . I asked the security staff if I could use it to get changed and their response was " sure , of course " so I went ahead and did . Indeed nobody even seemed to care . The changing room featured a chair , enough space and was very clean . <URL> Alternatively let me propose a solution here that has not been mentioned yet : Go to a clothing store in the airport shopping area , find a sales clerk that is free and ask politely if you could use their changing rooms for a second to change your clothes . No guarantee that it 'll work but you can try at least .
I do n't think the Family Visit Visa is an option for 2 reasons , based on the published <URL> . Reason 1 : Ineligible family relationship The list of people who can be visited under a Family visa is given as : spouse or civil partner children parents or siblings grandparents or grandchildren your spouse 's or civil partner 's siblings or parents your child 's spouse or civil partner step parents , step children or step siblings a person you 've been living with in a long-term relationship , as if you were married or in a civil partnership , for at least 2 years before the day you apply A cousin is none of those things . Reason 2 : Ineligible residency status The family member being visited must be one of : a British citizen settled in the UK granted asylum in the UK under humanitarian protection in the UK You 're not a British citizen , and I do n't think being in the UK on a short-term visa yourself counts as being " settled in the UK " . The other 2 options are presumably not relevant either .
Buses run infrequently and are privatized so it 's extremely difficult to document . Taking the subway to Giza and connecting by mini-bus is much more difficult then catching the No 355/357 behind the Egyptian Museum . It 's an " unofficial " stop , costs two Egyptian pounds , is air conditioned and will take you right to the base of the pyramids . Things to remember , you have to " hail " buses in Egypt for the most part . Behind the museum a local will normally do it for you and you can just piggy back on their quick acting . Bus numbers are in Arabic , mini-bus or regular . My girlfriend always tells people when looking for that bus , Arabic is backwards " 7 " " 0 " " V " . Good luck and have fun . Egyptians are friendly and will help you if you ask , just do n't let them lead you anywhere ... you 'll see what I mean ;-) All harmless fun though !
Most of Las Vegas is very family friendly so you should n't have any problem taking the whole family pretty much everywhere . You can visit all the major hotels and attractions with the kids . However , while they are allowed in the hotels , the kids are technically not allowed in the gaming areas so unless you want to actually gamble , you do n't need to leave the kids anywhere . You can still watch a lot of table action from the pathways through the casino though . These are usually noticeable because of different carpet or other delineaters . So long as the kids stay inside the lines , you 're ok .
A <URL> revealed many luggage storage facilities in Osaka . IMHO it would make sense to leave the luggage in the station/airport from which you would be departing/returning when heading/coming back from Tokyo . Shin-Osaka Station To this purpose , <URL> , for a cost ( at the time of writing ) of 410 per day , until the 5th day after which the price becomes 820 : Outside the Southern Shinkansen Gate at Shin-Osaka ( which puts you on the 3rd floor of the station -- see map but it wo n't show the luggage room ) you will go down two more floors to First Floor to get to the bus pickup . At the bottom of the steps to 1F turn left to see Central Gate and the bus and car area outside , as well as some bicycle parking just past a convenience store . Go left on the other side of that convenience store and you can see the luggage storage at the end of the walk up a short ramp for your suitcase 's rollers . JR-Osaka Station JR-Osaka station has both coin-operated lockers on 1st and 3rd floor , as well as a manned luggage storage room . <URL> is the information page from the station website , and <URL> is its google translate version in English . <URL> is a map of the station in English . Note that coin-operated lockers are emptied regularly by staff , so you might have a maximum storage time of around 48-72h . I could not find any official information on prices . I did however find <URL> mentioning . Kansai International Airport Kansai International Airport also has a <URL> . The liked page mentions carry-on baggage storage , and your 15kg should fit this criteria : There are temporary storage facilities for carry-on baggage at the northern and southern ends of the 1st and 4Fs . The northern counters are operated by Kansai Airport Baggage Service , and the southern counters are operated by JAL ABC . It is 620 yen to leave a suitcase for one day , 360 yen for a Boston bag , 1,030 yen to leave a coat for 4 days or less ( from the 5th day , 210 yen is added per day ) , and large items such as surfboards may be left for 1,030 yen a day .
According to <URL> you can buy it at various certification agencies ( TÜV , DEKRA ) and theoretically any auto repair shop that 's certified for doing emission tests ( though apparently many do n't offer this service ) . You need to show them the vehicle license and registration papers , from which they determine whether your car can get such a badge , and which one . Here 's <URL> in English from a TÜV website , and here are lists of branch offices where you should definitely be able to get the badge : <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> allows ' today ' flight searches . You should also be able to make bookings with airlines on their websites directly .
In Germany , the Zoos of <URL> and <URL> have Dolphin exhibits/shows ( another one in [ Münster ] will be shut down this fall ) . The one in Nürnberg is probably closest to you and also seems to be the largest . But note that there 's considerable controversity about whether keeping Dolphins in indoor pools constitutes animal abuse , given that even the largest pools are tiny in comparison with their natural movement habits .
Broadly speaking , tea plantation tourism is not a thing in Japan , for multiple reasons : the picking season is short ( as little as ten days , although Kagoshima squeezes in 4-5 harvests per year ) , they do n't want tourists in the way of the giant lumbering machines that do the bulk of the harvesting , and traditionally the places that process , roast , package and sell tea are separate from those that actually grow it . But ! After way too much searching , I found one group in Kagoshima that organizes tea tours : <URL> ( 茶寿会 ) , who in season run " green tourism " tours every couple of days that tour a live tea plantation and sample some fresh produce , for a token & yen ; 200 per head . Two major catches : you need a group of at least 15 people , and you will likely need a Japanese speaker to book and accompany you . If this sounds like too much hassle , you can pay a visit to <URL> ( 大野岳 ) , from whose viewing platform at the 466m summit you get a panoramic view of all the tea fields around you .
Unfortunately , there is no way to definitively answer this question . Visa outcomes depend from embassy-to-embassy and case-to-case . From what you are describing , it appears the mistake was made by the German embassy rather than by you - although you should have taken the prerogative to check a visa of the correct length had been issued , but there 's not much you can do about that now . I would suggest that you apply for an Estonian Schengen visa and when you 're called for an interview , take documentation along with you to prove your student status in Germany , copies for the application form of your old visa , et al and explain your situation to the visa officer who interviews you . And then hope for the best .
After quite a bit of research , I wonder whether this is n't some sort of weird combination of stories . <URL> exists . That 's not under debate . For this you need to go to China or the US , especially in Louisiana . Now most commonly , turtle soup in China is made with soft-shelled turtles . This is important , because <URL> !! Now given that a lot of animals are prone to wetting themselves when frightened , then it would stand to reason that if instead of cooking the turtle , you dipped it in the water , it might well pee / poop in the water ... One other less sanitary means of doing it is demonstrated <URL> , although it 's not particularly kind to the turtle .
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
end question
start question
How to protect my gear during a monsoon ?
There 's a great <URL> on this very topic . But yes , as far as your backpack goes , most backpacks seem to have raincovers these days . I also carry an emergency poncho for myself , although I 've only ever used one once ( Iguazu Falls ) . In addition you can wrap your clothes in plastic bags INSIDE your backpack . Do n't forget to double bag your electronics . Clothes can dry , not all electronics can . You can also put plastic bags around your shoes , if it 's really wet , but you may find it hard to walk in them . Best answer is to seek shelter as soon as possible , and then do what the locals do .
The best way to do that on a mobile device is by using <URL> to share your location . Whatsapp can be installed on any smart phone ( even some feature phones comes with it ) , click the " send location " button and the other person will receive an accurate location and once click it will automatically open the navigation application . I personally always use Whatsapp when I need to share location . Other messaging applications also offer the same feature but Whatsapp is like a universal app and most people have it . Anyway , if you want to do it by sharing GPS coordinates in any browser in any device that has a GPS feature , go to <URL> and it will give you your GPS coordinates . Copy and paste the location and send it using any messaging method and let them use either the same page or any other page/app to reach you .
Very often , the accommodation place where you stayed will have a long-term storage . It 's exceedingly common for hotels or hostels to have guests leaving stuff there while they go elsewhere - eg skies from their mountain trip , or stuff they 've bought to take home but do n't want to keep travelling with until they return to the hotel a few weeks later . Sometime 's it 's complimentary if you 're coming back soon and if you 're staying with them again shortly , but more often there 'll be a nominal fee . I 've even seen a comment on here somewhere about someone who was n't staying in a hotel paying the hotel anyway to store their stuff - you do n't necessarily need to be a guest . Of course , this 'll depend on the specific hotel . Alternatively , train stations and airports often have day and long-term storage lockers , for a fee . It 'll usually get x-rayed , and then kept for you . I 've used these in the past as well when I did n't want to take all my bags into the city to explore with , and they were very quick to use , and seemed very secure .
It may be not better than much closer places , but a time honoured retreat from the heat has long been Ootapramund aka " Oooty " , a " mere " 6 to 12 hours / 550 km from Madras ( aka Chennai ) . How does an average June high of 18.3 and record June high of 22 C sound ? :-) . <URL> . Missionary children used to be sent there to boarding school . I 'm told it has the only rack railway in India , and one of the two best " toy trains " in India - real trains but small and following steep and winding alpine routes - and suitably hard to get tickets on . <URL> Wikipedia : The Nilgiri Mountain Railway ( NMR ) is one of the oldest mountain railways in India . The NMR was declared by the UNESCO as a World Heritage Site in July 2005 . This connects Ootacamund with the town of Mettupalayam , at the foothills of the Nilgiri Mountains . It is the only rack railway in India , and uses the Abt system . Map and example bus route and timetable here . Many others available . They claim the distance is 549 km , but others say otherwaise . YMMV * :-) . <URL> This site <URL> say <URL> depending on operator etc. . This varies from the ( more likely ) 12 to 12 hours suggested in the link supplied by @vedic . There are 5 bus operators providing Ooty to Chennai bus services . K.P.N , SRM Transports , NAS Travels , Shama Sardar Travels , Alsafa Travels are the top bus operators providing 3 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 daily buses on this route respectively . The journey takes between 5.3 - 12.0 hrs to complete depending on the operator and the bus type . One can also avail of A/C Sleeper ( 2 +1 ) , A/C Semi Sleeper ( 2 +2 ) , Non A/C Seater ( 2 +2 ) , A/C Seater push back ( 2 +2 ) on this route . The first bus leaves at around 18:00 Hrs and last bus at 19:00 Hrs . The most preferred boarding points for Ooty to Chennai are Ooty , Bus stand with 7 , 1 buses departing daily . The average ticket price between Rs . 599 and Rs . 975.0 depending on bus type and operator . <URL> - * YMMV - Your Mileage May Vary :-)
It looks like there are quite a few places , but most of them only have websites in French . The magic search term is . For example , Diabolo Funboard ( who did the video I linked to ) have a rental location on Anse Vata Beach ( la plage de l'Anse Vata ) . <URL> which Mark mentioned are in a similar area , and appear to have some quite nice gear from Naish . So , it looks like there are several places there , with a range of kit from beginners to experienced !
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
To <URL> , I 'd like to add the passenger perspective : If you know that you may vomit during the flight , prepare yourself : Have a change of clothes in your carry-on , in case you manage to vomit over your shirt and pants , plus a plastic bag to store your dirty clothes . Bring tissues , or a towel , to clean up . Make sure that there actually is a vomit bag in your seat pocket as you board , and move it somewhere you can easily reach , maybe get your neighbor 's one as well , just in case . Do please put the unused bags back , though . Talk to the crew , since they 're really helpful . They may even be better equipped than you to clean up the mess , so do n't try to fix it all by yourself . If you 're flying with a person you know may need assistance ( such as a kid that wo n't give you much advance warning ) , be on high alert during turbulence ( obviously ) , but also during pressure changes , i.e. take-off and landing ( same problem as altitude sickness ) . Best wait a few minutes to calm down any upset stomach before exiting the plane . to freshen up afterward , you may want to bring your toothbrush and toothpaste ( there are small enough toothpaste tubes so that you 're below the 100ml container liquid/gels rule ) . Alternatively , you can bring some mints/chewing gum ( thanks , @zuallauz for the suggestion )
Ok , the comments have given a suggestion about booking another berth , which is impractical if you are concerned that the baby may actually roll over . Some practical tips to consider You can either book a first class or a 2-tier AC berth ( if you are travelling 3 tier AC already and are considering a second ticket for the kid , it may work out cheaper to do this ) , and ensure that you get a lower berth ( which is tough unless you book early ) , the berth in a 2-tier AC or First AC or First Class compartments are much wider than the one in other classes and can give enough room for the kid If you really want this substantiated you can see ( <URL> ) which has pictures and detailed measurements . If you like to be a bit bold and can convince co-passenger the way I did with a year old daughter you can look to replicate what I did . I used to make a cradle in between the seats , I will have to draw up something to explain ( and kindly forgive my horrible drawing ) , you tie a sufficiently long piece of cloth i.e. a saree or something that 's circa 2 metres long and tie it up to the top berth , since the train only shakes sideways this would actually provide a very comfortable journey to the kid ( if he is used to sleeping in those age old cradles made with a similar style at home it would be even better ) . <URL> The third option is to get two lower berths and actually carry a small flat cradle into the compartment and make the baby sleep in it , like this : <URL> I have only thought about this never did this for my travels . Happy sleeping
There 's no way you can get to the capital and back and make your flight . 1 hour 30 should be plenty of time to get to your departure gate . Keflavik is a well laid out airport which has all the gates within about 15 minutes walk . If I remember there are less than 40 gates in the entire place . My suggestion would be to explore the shops in the departure lounge .
Lavatories ( airplane toilets ) can be inoperative for many reasons , they could get blocked by someone vomiting in the sink , or by throwing tissues or other objects in either the sink or the toilet seat . Sometimes , when a waste tank is full , or there 's a problem in the sensor of the tank giving a wrong signal , all flushes connected to that tank will not work , this happens in modern aircrafts . If a sink or a flush are not working , the toilet has to be blocked by the crew/maintenance or stuff would be piling up ! For each aircraft type ( usually depending on the passenger load and toilet locations ) , there is a limit of toilets that can be inoperative while airborne before the flight has to land at the nearest airport . This depends on the model and airline 's policy . But a rule of thumb is : half of the toilets in each zone should be operative . Otherwise the flight has to land if this happened during the flight . If the flight is on ground and for example all toilets in business class are inoperative , the plane can take off but no passengers should be in that class . In some airlines , if all the toilets at the front are inoperative , even if there are no passengers , the plane has to land if it 's flying or will not be able to take off if it 's on ground because pilots are only allowed to use toilets in the front .
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
According to the <URL> of SNCF , you can ask a refund via post : To obtain a refund write to : Service relations clients SNCF 62973 Arras cedex 09 FRANCE It specifies that you need to send : the original tickets if you have received them your booking reference your full contact details ( full name , address and phone number ) Note that I have n't actually tried this .
You can take your bike along in most trains , but not in the ICE . It 's probably best to check when you look up the connection online ( you can even use it as a search criterium ) . In some local trains you do n't need an extra ticket . It seems to <URL> , including the time of day . In <URL> , you always need a ticket for your bike as well as a reservation . Yes , <URL> . It costs 25.50 EUR per bike , and an additional 8 EUR for international delivery ( only to Luxembourg , Austria and Switzerland ) . Note that the bike has to be wrapped ( you can order a wrapping for 5.90 EUR ) .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
Everything you need to know is on the airport 's <URL> . The short answer is yes , easily . The fastest , but most expensive , way is just to take a taxi . Follow the signs to the taxi rank , should take around 20 to 30 mins to get into town and budget around 25 pounds one way . You can pick up any black cab on the way back . Trams are 8 pounds return , run every ten minutes or so ( officially every 8 to 12 minutes ) and go down Princes Street which I 'm guessing is the <URL> you wish to go to . You can get off on the terminus or just after it turns off Princes Street . Journey time is around 35 minutes . Similarly the Airlink bus is 50p cheaper , takes about as long , runs about as often and stops at Waverly which is a short walk . There are local buses that are much cheaper , but they take a long route and stop a lot , I doubt it 's worth it . So , even if you want to get back to the airport two hours before departure you 'd still easily manage two and a half to three hours in the city . Time enough to go shopping and grab a bite to eat . Of course you 'll have to clear security when you return to the airport , and this can take a looong time during peak hours . They 've redone the security area so it 's faster now but it can get very busy . Also if you 're pulled over for further screening you may need to wait in a queue for that . Basically I would n't try cutting it too close . I 'm also assuming that you can legally enter the UK . I guess any big bags will left on the plane but for what it 's worth there 's a <URL> service at Edinburgh airport . There 's also one at <URL> but the airport one is cheaper .
Unless it is a significant amount , changing coins is n't worth it . The amounts are small and most banks and foreign exchanges wo n't accept coins generally . My solution is to collect the left over foreign coins until I fly on an airline that participates in the <URL> program and then donate them . British Airways and Virgin also have their own programs . It is a great concept as a small amount of foreign coins is n't very valuable to you , but when compounded across thousands of passengers a year , it can make a real difference . If you do n't want to wait until your next flight to donate , many charity shops ( at least in the UK ) accept foreign coins .
You can look up a comparable flight for today on <URL> . This is best done as close to your date of departure as possible , as terminal use may change occasionally . You can usually see tomorrows flights as well . For example : <URL> <URL> The websites of the respective airports will also usually have this information , especially the outbound airport . Terminal info on arrivals varies between airport websites .
I traveled all the way through the USA from the east coast to the west coast , by car and RV . I thought about getting a UMTS / LTE stick for my Notebook , too . But there really was n't any need for this . You can get FREE WIFI almost everywhere : Coffee Shops ( Starbucks , etc. ) Fast food Restaurants ( Pizza Hut , McDonalds , KFC , etc. ) Camp grounds Hotels Shops / Malls Libraries In rare cases you get WIFI access even here : Cinemas Grocery Stores Gas Stations I can also tell you , that the UMTS internet coverage is n't that good when you plan to visit national parks or other nature reserves . Whilst driving through the less populated middle of the USA there are times when you even do n't get your cell phone working -- > NO Service ! So if you really feel the need for uninterupted internet access , you should carefully check the coverage of your Mobile-ISP
For virtually all international airports , as long as you are on a single itinerary with your bags booked through , you will stay in the transit area and do not need to clear immigration or Customs . However , if you purchased separate tickets for the two legs , this does not apply : you will need to pass through Immigration ( which may require visas etc ) , collect your bags and check them back in . Unfortunately the United States is , as ever , the odd one out . Transits through the US always require the full Immigration/Customs rigmarole , full stop . In the original poster 's case , a <URL> , Canada from/to the US , they 'll need to pass through at least a " lite " version of Canada Immigration/Customs even if they connect on <URL> , although there are some <URL> for citizens of some countries resident in the US . EDIT : Updated after Doc 's entirely accurate comment .
end question
start question
What countries allow the most visa free / visa on arrival entries ?
Agreements tend to be reciprocal ( although I would not be surprised if some were n't ) but many countries also simply decide unilaterally to grant visa-free entry to citizens of other countries . You do n't need an agreement for that . For example , compare <URL> ( certainly a very open country , on paper ) and <URL> . While I do n't know any ranking for that , it seems Haiti could be both one of the most open countries and one of those whose citizens suffer from the most restrictions ( to the extent that Wikipedia 's info is correct , of course ) . The <URL> ( however , unlike Haiti , <URL> ) . <URL> and <URL> do not require a visa to visit , from anyone .
Generally , new and longer-distance trains will , older suburban ones wo n't . Quite a few have them in first class , but not in standard . CrossCountry Voyager trains have power available in most seats , and a nice seating plan : <URL> East Midland have power on their ' Meridian ' trains but not their HSTs - <URL> South West Trains do n't generally - it appears that some of their carriages do ( <URL> ) , but it 's not publicised ... Virgin West Coast Super Voyager have power at all seats . Pendolino First Class have power at all seats . Pendolino Standard Class have power at seats with tables . <URL> Virgin East Coast Seats with tables have power ( all first class seats have tables ) <URL>
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
A 15 day Vietnam VOA allows you to stay in the country for 15 days ... pretty simple really . The day you arrive is Day 1 . The day you depart needs to be Day 15 or sooner . Like most countries the counted day starts at midnight and ends at midnight , so entering through immigration at 11:59 pm still counts as Day 1 . And departing at 11:59 pm on Day 15 is still Day 15 ( hope there are no lines if you try that ;-) . I actually do not know of any countries that stamp date &amp; time of entry then count days as 24 hour periods from that time , like car rental companies .
If we have a look at the " what can you do " section of the 651 ( link <URL> ) it reads Your eVisitor lets you : enter Australia for up to three months during each visit during the 12 months from the date the eVisitor is granted So this seems that you can visit Australia for the next 12 months ( the 12 months start the day the visa is granted ) ; BUT you can stay there for only 3 months every time you go there . If you 're not married and plan to go alone have a look at the 417 too <URL>
According to the website <URL> , you can see seven countries from the summit of <URL> on the Kosovo-Macedonia border . The countries are : Kosovo Macedonia Albania ( several peaks ) Serbia ( several peaks ) Greece ( at least one peak , Vitsi ) Bulgaria ( some scattered areas ) Montenegro ( at least one peak on the border and some scattered areas within the country ) The shading of the alleged view as well as marking of several peaks can be seen at this link : <URL> . I found this peak by clicking on promising peaks at that webpage at random . The Wikipedia page on the mountain does not have this factoid . I have no idea about common weather conditions in the area ( how often the air is clear in all directions ) . Moreover , you have to subscribe to the foreign policy of one of the 108 countries that recognize Kosovo for this to be a record . It should in any case have the record of " highest increase of number of countries viewable in the modern era " as the area in question did only contain 4 countries prior to 1992 , and is in any case a tie to the Swiss mountain in JoeDeRose 's answer .
If you have a visa , it 's either single-entry or multiple-entry . If you have visa-free entries , it works as if you were getting a new visa each time you cross the border . You can visit multiple times , as long as your <URL> .
The UK Business Visitor Visa is <URL> so your question has limited life . The new rules will be posted at Immigration Rules <URL> On the start date ( 24 April ) of the new rules , your BVV will automatically convert to a Visitor ( standard ) visa . You do n't have to do anything for this to happen . People who hold a valid visit visa that was issued prior to 24 April 2015 can use this to enter the UK provided they are still a genuine visitor . They will be able to use this visa to carry out the additional permitted activities . For example , a person with a business visit visa can use this to enter the UK for a holiday or to receive private medical treatment . Source : email from the Home Office to UK lawyers sent on 3 March 2015 The Visitor ( standard ) visa allows you enjoy tourism or business or recreational coursework for as much as you want on multiple visits until it expires . For your other questions , you will always have a landing interview with a British Immigration Officer who will determine if you still qualify . They will look at the same paperwork you originally used with your application so you should bring it along . As long as you are still a genuine visitor , you will have no problems . Adding As always , during a transitional period when old rules change to new rules , it 's advisable to carry a print-out of the relevant rule with you .
The lottery part is merely for the right to apply for a Green Card , really , so if you are not selected in the lottery it is not considered a failed Visa application . My brother actually won the lottery and could have applied , but his plans had changed since entering and decided not to proceed . You can still use the ESTA and visa waiver stuff in future , in fact you can have more than one visa application outstanding at the same time , according to these imigration lawyers <URL> . It 's probably worth noting however , that having applied for immigration <URL> the US immigration authorities view of any subsequent visa applications , as they will take it as a signal that you wish to migrate to the USA . So if you apply for a tourist visa they make take that into account and decide that your real intent is to stay permanently . This is generally more of a problem for applicants form countries with a high rate of illegal immigration via overstaying short-stay visas , for example , in which I doubt Sweden ranks highly .
You have named some of the finest such buildings in the world . San Francisco has some attractive religious institutions to be sure , but nothing I would consider truly world class or on the same scale as a church that has been under construction for 134 years . That said , here are a few sights of interest though ( inspired partially by <URL> , which has some others worth considering ) . I would n't really count any as a must-see for a tourist , but if you 're interested in church architecture or want to visit one anyway , there are some good options . All these institutions have websites that list more detailed information , hours , scheduled services , contract details , etc. . . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Kjetil Ree It has been featured in movies and has a <URL> as well . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Chris06 This is an Episcopal Cathedral , so I 'm not sure if it is suitable for your religious needs , but it 's a stunning building . One fun feature are the labyrinths , which are built for meditative walks . Come by Cable Car if you want to arrive in style , or the 1-California bus if you do n't . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Jdlrobson Gothic-style Catholic church with a colorful and detailed <URL> . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Robert A. Estremo The namesake of the Mission District , this is n't quite as significant for the architecture but rather for the history : it is the oldest surviving structure in San Francisco and the site of the original Spanish Mission in San Francisco . It , along with the larger Basilica next door , continues to operate as a Catholic parish church . <URL> ( I could n't find a free image suitable for embedding . ) As you mentioned that you are Greek , it 's fitting to include this one , though I 've never visited . The <URL> looks quite striking . It is out on Brotherhood Way in the far Southwestern cover of the city , making it potentially a bit of a trip to reach depending on where you start . Modern Cathedrals <URL> Wikimedia Commons : David Leigh Ellis <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Skier Dude For something different , you could also consider one of the Bay Area 's modern cathedrals . <URL> ( Saint Mary of the Assumption ) may be mocked by some locals as the " washing machine church , " as it looks like an agitator from the sides ( it is , of course , a cross from above ) , but it is a noticeable structure for better or for worse . Across the bay in Oakland , <URL> is comparatively new and was the first cathedral built entirely in the 21st century , with lots of glass and natural light . The Gothic-revival <URL> is nice and dates back to 1851 . It is a far cry from the Sagrada Familia , but I mention it especially because it is quite convenient to Union Square , Muni Metro , and BART lines . Also note <URL> , part of the United Methodist Church , which is n't a whole lot to look at physically , but features an extraordinary gospel choir , plenty of spirit , a commitment to social justice , and prominent programs to feed and help the homeless ( and they can always use more volunteers ) . Some other architecturally significant buildings affiliated with some religion in San Francisco include : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( Buddhist ) , <URL> ( Buddhist ) , <URL> ( Hindu ) , <URL> ( Jewish ) , <URL> ( Jewish ) , and <URL> ( Jewish , modernist ) . I have surely omitted others from this list .
I wound up using <URL> and had no problems . It took around two weeks from application to the return of my passport with the visa in it .
An Algerian national needs to apply for a visa in order to enter the UK , even if they have a French visa and even if they are taking the Eurostar . You will not be able to show the UKVI people your visa at the rail station , or even at the border . On the bright side , the application does n't take three months to process ; it 's more like a week . You can apply online at the <URL> . If you have a clean history and otherwise qualify , you will be able to access the various opportunities to upgrade your application to priority status . That will cost over and above the GBP 83 for the basic application fee . The downside is that since you are in France , you probably do not have all the requisite evidence to hand . It 's something to consider before applying . For your last question : no , the ' spur of the moment ' option is n't available to those travelling on an Algerian passport .
A seeming oasis of paperwork-free work possibilities is Georgia , a country not yet well established in the minds of travellers and tourists from the west , located between Turkey , Russia , Azerbaijan , Armenia , and the Black Sea . Now it does n't answer the letter of your question but I believe it answers the spirit . If not to the original asker then certainly to others who find this question by searching the Internet for instance . So Georgia does n't grant work visas on arrival and in fact I 'm still not sure if they even have work visas specifically despite asking many locals and people working here and searching government websites . But most nationalities can visit without a visa and , <URL> , everyone is able to work here . Basically you get an on-arrival tourist visa ( passport stamp ) but are allowed to work on a tourist visa !
From <URL> : Foreign citizens waiting for their connecting flight are allowed to stay at Sheremetyevo Airport up to 24 hours without a valid Russian visa . The passenger should have a ticket of the relevant airline with confirmed seating for the relevant connecting flights . International transit passengers whose transfer requires their stay at Sheremetyevo Airport in excess of 24 hours , may obtain a Russian transit visa at the airport ( upon presentation of their connecting flight tickets and valid IDs ) . Unless you 're flying from or to Belarus Passengers from/to Belarus should be aware of the need to have a Russian transit visa regardless of the duration of their stay at the airport .
You 've a multiple ICT T2 visa &amp; you 're eligible to travel back to UK again but as you do n't have any assignment here in UK , its better that you apply for a separate tourist visa . Why so ? The UK immigration officers will ask you the purpose of your visit &amp; when you 'll say " just a friendly visit " or something like that , it would be a violation of your ICT visa . I hope this helps .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
I spoke to multiple immigration lawyers and consultants and the consensus was that the consulate employee was poorly trained in US visa policy , as it was my US visa status that mattered , not the visa stamp . So I went back to the embassy to try again at a later date . This time , there was a different employee , and now , two weeks later , I have in my hands a Schengen visa .
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
( some of the info here might be dated - but still it might show that such a process is indeed recognized by some international laws ) Yes , Since I am travelling really a lot for business , I have encountered them in some ( special ) situation , although not in Airports , but in walk-in borders , trains or ferries - and usually where the countries have a special relation . For example , in Zuhai ( China ) where there is a walking border to Macau , you can apply for a special 3 days Chinese visa at the border itself . In Shenzen , You can apply for a special 5 days Chinese visa at the border also . Now , while those situations Can be considered a " visa on arrival " - for Chinese citizens , it is the other way around . A Chinese citizen can apply for a Macau visa ( or respectively - HK ) at the border itself BEFORE exiting China . This can be also done for other non-Chinese citizens that require a visa to HK or Macau ( I do not require one - But I have seen it done there ) Another Example is the walk-in Border between Jordan and Israel when one can apply for a Jordanian Visa BEFORE exiting Israel ( there are 3 such borders , I only have done it in one ) . Another example are some remote borders ( Can not remember the names ) between Ecuador and Colombia and Ecuador and Peru , where some years back ( actually - a lot ) I had a visa made BEFORE exiting the Ecuadorian customs , and the visa was made by Colombian and Peruvian officials INSIDE Ecuador . India and Nepal ( were ) another such example - and come to think of it - so does China and Tibet . . Back to China , in Guangzhou South train station there is a special direct train to HK , where you actually do passport control at the train station ( more than 150 km INSIDE china ) before boarding the train . A few years back ( maybe now also - I do not know ) You could have applied for a visa there also ( before buying a ticket ) So I guess yes , In some special situations these type of visas exists ( or - existed ) so they are sanctioned by international law and applied somewhere - although today in the age of e-visas and computers , I guess they are disappearing or will soon .
Yes , there is ! On the <URL> , <URL> the main museums and art galleries are open for free . The only slight downside is that loads of people take advantage of this , so the queues can be quite long ( it took 25 minutes to get into le Musée d'Orsay today mid afternoon as a guide ) , and they can be very busy inside . See <URL> on avoiding the worst of the queues at the Louvre for example . Still , if you do n't mind the queues to get in , you can see some amazing museums and works of art for free , you just need to play your trip to Paris to hit the first Sunday of the month ! ( You can do the museums that are free all the time , such as those mentioned in the question , on the day before/after , so you can maximise your time on the Sunday at the places that normally charge )
end question
start question
Is there any similar alternative to Zanzibar , in Tanzania ?
When I was travelling in Tanzania , some local people recommended <URL> as an alternative to Zanzibar . It 's located in the <URL> , and it is supposed to be much quieter and less touristy . I did n't go there myself - we opted to do Zanzibar instead . If you do decide to go to Zanzibar , Nungwi is definitely the most touristy spot . Kendwa is a few kilometers away and is quieter , but still has enough to do to keep you occupied . Note that when I say Nungwi is touristy , I mean that there are about 20 hotels lining the beach - that 's pretty much of it . As soon as you step off the beach however , you 're in a local village .
Travel Insurance is not a commodity , and can vary widely between companies . You 'll usually be offered insurance at the same time as booking a holiday , but can arrange separately - here 's what you need to check out ; Is Your Destination Covered ? It sounds obvious , but policies vary and if you do n't know what you 're looking for , they can be confusing . Some providers , for example , will include countries such as Turkey and Egypt under European cover , while others wo n't . Worldwide cover , meanwhile , does n't always include the USA , Canada and the Caribbean -- so ensure your policy does if you 're heading out that way . Also , check the insurance will cover you for the duration of your whole stay When selecting which travel insurance policy to go for , it 's important to check how many consecutive days abroad you 'll be covered for . Limits vary depending on the provider , and if you go over this limit , even if it 's only by a day , you will invalidate your insurance . Check for limits After all , the last thing you want is to make a claim on your travel insurance only to find you 're not covered for what you had lost . Work out exactly what you 're bringing with you to ensure you have the correct amount of cover -- we recommend that you have at least the following . # 1,500 baggage cover # 250 to cover lost cash # 3,000 cancellation cover -- or enough to cover the total cost of your holiday <URL> Other things to bear in mind include ; When can I actually claim and how ? Check the documents carefully , do n't get caught out . Is your medical condition covered under a policy ? Also . do n't lie about medical conditions - this will void the policy . ALWAYS READ THE SMALLPRINT !!! Thus could contain the most important information for you . Again , do n't get caught out . The most important part has to be about Claiming . Make sure you are certain that you have enough amount of cover and know how to claim if necessary . The process is n't particularly difficult , as long as you do n't fall in any traps .
<URL> , in Greece , does not permit women to enter . Wikipedia explains the rationale behind this prohibition as Monks feel that the presence of women alters the social dynamics of the community and therefore slows their path towards spiritual enlightenment . However , you may want to refine your question . For example , most restrooms are divided on gender , although I largely suspect that that is not exactly the type of answer you were looking for .
Of course there are . It is even very common , at least for long distance run For some lines ( such as Medan-Singkil ) , it is even the only option available . The thinking is that there is less trafic at night and that , especially on a twisty mountain road , you see better the incoming car at night . I took night transports ( long distance taxi , minibus or big bus ) on line going from Medan to Singkil , Dumai and Pekanbaru . Each of those is at least 10 hours long .
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
Most countries except for the UK , USA , Ireland , Mexico and Canada impose formal exit checks in the same way they impose entry checks . ( I am excluding passenger information being submitted to governments , by exit check , I mean all departing passengers queue up and an immigration officer looks at every outgoing passport . ) Therefore unless you are exiting one of those above-mentioned countries , there are formal exit controls . Travelling within the Schengen zone of course involves no passport control , because it is designed as one immigration zone , but when you leave the zone there is an exit control . There may be further exceptions ( please reply in the comments ) but actually I can think of none off the top of my head .
In short , no , there 's no Japanese region known for spicy food in the same way that ( say ) Sichuan or Thailand is . Japanese does n't really even have a word for " spicy " , 辛い karai originally meant " salty " and is still used in that sense as well . However , there are a couple of spicy local specialities , mostly in the south of the country where they had the most Chinese/Korean influence . ( courtesy Babi Hijau , <URL> ) Karashi renkon ( 辛子蓮根 ) means " spicy lotus root " , and it consists basically of lotus root stuffed with mustard -- and in case you have n't tried Japanese mustard yet , it 's usually blow-your-socks-off hot . This is a speciality of Kumamoto prefecture in Kyushu . ( courtesy Kanko , <URL> ) Karashi mentaiko ( 辛子明太子 ) is spicy cod roe , this time with actual chilli . It 's a Korean import that first landed in Japan at Shimonoseki at the western tip of Honshu , but is now well known all around northern Kyushu ( esp . Fukuoka ) as well . It 's a rather expensive delicacy , and mentaiko spaghetti is a very popular ( but only mildly spicy ) way to eat it , but connoisseurs eat it raw with rice . ( courtesy me ) Speaking of Kyushu , while classical tonkotsu ramen ( 豚骨ラーメン , noodles in pork bone broth ) is not spicy , it 's very common to add chili to it these days . Fukuoka is also the home of tonkotsu , with <URL> ( 一蘭 ) and <URL> ( 一風堂 ) battling it out for supremacy -- Ippudo 's akamaru , in particular , is both famous and spicy . That said , <URL> : diners eat in curtained-off single booths ! And you can specify the size of your chili dab , the default is above . And that 's about it , really , for main dishes or even main ingredients . In addition to wasabi and shichimi , Japanese cuisine uses some " spicy " spices : The karashi mustard of karashi-renkon is also used to spice up some otherwise bland dishes like oden stew . <URL> is a paste of yuzu ( a citrus fruit ) peel with green chillies , most commonly eaten with nabe hotpot stews and yakitori grilled chicken . Originally from Yufuin in Kyushu , but was briefly super-popular nationwide a few years back . <URL> ( a mild relative of Sichuan pepper ) is used in a few dishes like grilled eel ( unagi ) . There 's also a whole slew of spicy nibbles designed to accompany alcohol , eg . takowasabi ( minced octopus with wasabi ) and <URL> ( fermented squid guts , absolutely horrible stuff ) , but none of these are particularly regional as far as I 'm aware . Last but not least , do n't forget more recent culinary imports : Japan 's larger cities usually have Korean enclaves ( eg . Tsuruhashi in Osaka and Okubo in Tokyo ) which will give you all the chilli you can handle and then some , and many Korean foods like yakiniku BBQ have become an essential part of Japanese cuisine . Curry rice is apparently the single most common dish prepared in Japanese homes , although this came to Japan via England and even the notionally " spicy " ( 辛口 karakuchi ) varieties will barely register on the palate of a chilli fiend . Last and probably least , <URL> ( 中華料理 chūka ryōri ) is ubiquitous , even the smallest town will have one or two restaurants serving it . Unfortunately most all spiciness has usually been blanched out , with originally murderously hot Sichuan dishes like mapo doufu turned into vaguely ketchup-y concoctions , but there are usually a few token nominally spicy dishes like ebi chiri ( エビチリ ) , shrimp in chilli sauce , on the menu .
As Έρικ Κωνσταντόπουλος , I doubt that Irrawaddy or Central region have bungee-jumping capabilities , but not based on an undated article that mentions " it may just be a matter of time " . In my case I doubt anywhere in Myanmar yet offers bungee jumping on a regular basis . From the same site as that article ( <URL> ) the question is posed : Who is going to be the first to take a leap in Myanmar ? In this case the article is dated , 26 Mar 2013 . On the Myanmar forum <URL> Maibpenrai , showing as from Bangkok/Yangon , posted shortly after the above ( 15 June 2013 - 07:57 ) : It seems to be than Bungee Jumping in Myanmar is not available yet Thereafter it is a matter of assumptions and deductions . The Burmese do not have a cultural heritage such as Vanuatu has for <URL> and the introduction of bungee jumping there can be expected to relate specifically to the expansion of tourism . ( In <URL> tourist visits numbered only 1.3 M. ) For that advertising can be expected nowadays and this OP 's failure to find what he was looking for can be taken to indicate that such does not exist ( yet ) . The signs are however that it will do before very long , so should be worth monitoring the situation .
I ca n't comment on Laos as I 've never been there for Songkran/New Year ( although it is probably my favorite place on the planet otherwise ! ) , however ... I was in Bangkok during Songkran several years ago ( 2004 I think ) , and it was an amazing atmosphere and experience , especially around Khao San Road . If you 're in a different part of the country there will still be some form of celebration , but it 's not as intense as in Bangkok/Khao San Road . Whether it 's worth the extra money to you is obviously not a question I can answer , but if it were me I would be handing over the $ 80 in an instant ! Keep in mind that logistically things can be a little more difficult during/around Songkran , especially if you 're staying around Khao San Road . Roads are closed/blocked , and even taxis/tuk-tuks/etc will not be able to get through so you may end up having to walk the last few blocks to/from your hotel - with the real possibility of getting very wet in the process ( although people are generally respectful of people with luggage/etc , there 's always collateral damage to worry about ... )
As we pointed out in some comments , there really are tons out there . It being mostly a Catholic ( historically ) and Spanish-Portuguese continent , a lot of the festivals tend to be related to dates at similar times , as well as historical dates ( independence days and the like ) . For this , I 'd recommend a site like <URL> - which lists around 70 well-known festivals . Then they have a sorting tool on the right which will let you sort by country , month and the like . Unfortunately you 're a bit late for Carnaval and a bit early for <URL> , but there are plenty others in that list in South America in the months you mention !
Unfortunately , the solutions to this seem quite limited . <URL> will provide you with 50MB of data per day $ 27.50 for the first day and $ 3.50 per day afterwards . Alternatively , you can receive 1GB for $ 65 and $ 45 per GB ( or part thereof ! ) over 30 days . Not very flexible at all . Various countries have <URL> - but it works quite well across Europe . Unfortunately , you also have to pay expensive shipping costs for receiving and returning a <URL> . In Australia , it would cost me $ 68 just in shipping costs . Another option seems to be to obtain a pre-paid SIM in Europe and add a booster . <URL> has boosters that cost between # 1 for 3MB for a day , or # 5 for 20MB over a week , or # 10 for 50MB over 30 days . You may need to pay for some normal credit as well . You may also want to add a <URL> for normal calls .
Your options are by air or by bus . A taxi from Nairobi to the border , and a new taxi from the border to Arusha is of course also an option , but it will not come cheap . As mentioned in the answer from @Carl you will have several options for bus companies at around $ 20 . The pick-up for some companies are at the different hotels . The bus will take you to the Arusha bus station . Safety on roads in any country is always a concern . The road between Nairobi and Arusha has been upgraded some years ago . This usually means the average speed goes up . Travelling along roads in African countries is more dangerous than in any European country . Safety in cars and buses are generally lower - lack of safety belts , driver ignorance or lack of skill , bad roads , bad technical standard on cars , high speed driving , securing of cargo , cattle/donkeys along the road etc. . A drive will , for better or worse , of course give you a different feel for the countries you travel in and Kenya/Tanzania are no exceptions . Your cheapest flight option would be with Precision Air . It currently costs around $ 150 . Since it is an international flight it will take you from Nairobi ( NBO ) to Kilimanjaro international Airport ( JRO ) . The Arusha airport is not an international one . You will have to add the bus ticket from JRO to Arusha . It will set you back from around $ 10 . A taxi will cost you around $ 50 . The distance from JRO to Arusha is around 50 kms , so you will still have to spend an hour or so on the road .
In addition to other answers , I can think of : A psychological advantage , people who hate flying tend to board late . This somehow makes them feel better . If the plane is not full and you are boarding last , you can sit at any empty seat . Passengers who board early usually sit in their assigned seats to avoid any embarrassments unlike people who board late ( they know there 's few people left ) If you were trying to use some smart ways to be upgraded to B/C or F/C , boarding late is important . If you have an aisle seat ( especially in wide bodied airplane ) boarding late is better to avoid standing and getting out of the way to let people sit . If you are a paranoid person and you are obsessed about gear collapse , boarding late will decrease the chances of facing a gear collapse situation ( gears collapse while the plane is parked , causing the fuselage to hit the ground which might lead to injury ) .
The <URL> in Berlin claims to have been " the world 's first permanent exhibition devoted to digital interactive entertainment culture . "
Well , as usual not directly . There are ferries operating from Shanghai to Kobe and Osaka , by multiple companies <URL> <URL> and from Qingdao to Shimonoseki by : <URL> - And <URL> From Osaka you can definitely <URL> from Shimonoseki I am not so sure but you can probably find domestic ferries to Osaka and catch one from there to Naha or get to Kagashima and do the same .
As russian , I should mention other firm , much more popular here in Russian : <URL> They have a good set of offers , including Eco projects with volunteer work ( linked above ) , and more traditional tours . I think you should check the <URL> - if they are offering the climbing tour , they definitely can provide a tour with boat :) Even if they do n't , you can order the guided tour , and take the boat with you . Another interesting site is about <URL> , with schedule of department ( only in Russian ) . Good luck with your tours and welcome to Russia . PS : All of my friends who have visited the Baikal were using their own initiative - order tickets to the Irkutsk , and after that move to the Baikal and camp there in open zones - outdoor tourism is allowed in Russia and very popular from the Soviet times . If you have a friends inside Russia , try to use this option - its much more cheaper and fun :)
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
The ferry is essentially the only means of transport that was n't completely overloaded the last time . BART runs a few extra private buses , enough to accommodate 1 % of the 400,000 daily riders . And it 's only in the commute direction . Unfortunately , the Transbay tube is so efficient and so fast that there are n't a lot of good options from other transit providers . Perhaps the best option if the ferry is n't convenient is the " slug lines , " also known as <URL> . People who are traveling solo take on a few extra passengers to get the discount on the Bay Bridge . Obviously , you have to sit in traffic on the bridge , but the price is right . It sounds sketchy but is apparently very safe . As far as getting to the airport , you 're basically out of luck . You can take <URL> from <URL> and get off at the Millbrae station . That still leaves you 2.5 miles from the airport , but you should be able to get a cab from there , or walk if you 're up for it ( the bayfront area by the airport is pretty nice to walk along , but getting there is a slog from the Caltrain station ) . Also , Caltrain does n't run as often or as early as BART . Rental cars are n't cheap , but it may be worth making a refundable reservation in case you need it , and canceling before the deadline if the strike is called off .
In general , when using your card abroad you get charged ( some ) of the following fees Currency exchange fee A fee levied by your bank for using your card abroad A fee levied by the ATM operator In your case ( 1 ) will not apply because the currency is the same , but ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) might still apply . ( 2 ) you need to check with your bank , and you should be informed about ( 3 ) by the ATM . From personal experience , ( 3 ) is not very common in Europe .
Yes , there are definitely squat houses in Paris Today , in contemporary paris you can find alternative political and cultural activity in various squats or social centers . These are abandoned buildings ( often government owned ) that have been occupied and re-appropriated by groups of artists , performers , activists , musicians or just people that need a roof over their head . Paris has seen many years of this squatting tradition and though many of them have been closed down , a lot are opening and some have managed to become legitimate and are supported by local municipalities . Some squat houses have been closed due to health and safety but are still available to look at For example the very famous squat " electron libre chez robert " which is situated right in the heart of Paris at 59 rue de Rivoli was once said to be the 4th most visited tourist attraction of Paris and so was closed to the public a couple of years back due to health and safety precautions . However , when walking by rue de Rivoli you can still admire the eccentrically decorated facade of this typical Parisian apartment building . Some Squat Houses can be viewed Les Frigos Many squats are home to the ateliers and workshops of artists , the " Les Frigos " for example is home to about 100 artist ateliers , although nobody lives there . This 80 year old building was once a giant refrigerator producing ice hence its name which means ' the fridges ' . Now it has been re-appropriated by numerous artists and its facade is filled with some impressive graffiti and mural art <URL> an immense building ( about 5000m3 ) with around 15 people living permanently and a collective of about 50 people occupying the ateliers and workshops on the three floors . They have a gallery which is very well known and often shows quite avant-garde work of upcoming or even established artists . As well , they often organize what is called a ' fête du quartier ' ( neighborhood party ) which includes concerts , performances , theatre and an " open scene " where anybody can come up and perform <URL> Not far from " La Générale " , in the 11th is a squat that was opened last year and has been very active in the neighborhood ever since . Installed in an ancient school , " La Petite Rockette " has established a very good name for itself with a variety of open courses ranging from capoiera to IT classes for the elderly . They have a very busy schedule packed with expositions , concerts and theatre . Their impact on the neighborhood is really evident and the fact that everything is run by volunteers makes it all the more impressive . As it is relatively speaking quite a new squat , there is a lot of energy and motivation to keep things active and fresh . Quoted information from <URL> 59 Rivioli is also a well known squat The 59 Rivoli is a building right in the heart of Paris that 's full of nothing but artist 's studios . There 's a gallery on the ground floor that has a new exposition every 2 weeks . In the beginning , it was a squat that was started by artists looking for a place to work , live and show . The artists opened it to the public 6 days a week . It 's now legalized and still open to the public who can come through and visit the artists . Unlike a gallery where you only see a small amount of the artist 's work , at 59 Rivoli , you get to truly enter into an artist 's universe where the work is actually created . Other useful links ; <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How to get Auschwitz-Birkenau from Wroclaw ?
You can go by train from Wrocław to Oświęcim ( Auschwitz ) and then from Oświęcim to Kraków . The last train from Oświęcim to Kraków is at 20h54 . You can check the train times and fares <URL> . I think that a less stressing way is to go to Kraków first and visit Oświęcim on a day trip from there . Alternatively , if you do not want to go to Kraków first , you could consider to spend the night in Oświęcim . This could be the night before or after the visit .
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
I ca n't tell you why you get no results with a Google transit search , but I can tell you that you wo n't find anything useful searching the OC Transpo web site unless you already know exactly where you 're going , and it wo n't show you what you need to know anyway since OC Transpo does n't really go into Gatineau . So , here 's the kind of so-so news . There are buses which reach the southermost edges of the park boundaries , but they do not go into or around the park , and do not reach as far as the visitor centre or many of the places within the park you might want to go . You 'll have a bit of a hike ahead of you . Fortunately there are plenty of hiking trails ... So , <URL> routes 35 and 48 reach the southeast and southwest boundaries of the park respectively , and you can get either of these in downtown Ottawa . They enter Wellington Street at the Portage Bridge and travel to their last Ottawa stop at Rideaux and Cumberland , before returning to Gatineau via King Edward Avenue . The <URL> shows a few other routes which overlap those at some points , in case those might also be useful to you . ( For instance , routes 35 and 48 only run Monday-Friday , and you may want to find a weekend bus . ) Cash fare is $ 3.90 , and some discounts are available .
As pointed out by @mkennedy , Canada Post has a service called International Reply Coupon , which , as per their web-site , appears to be a one-size-fits-all that 's valid in 191 countries ( except for Taiwan ) , bearing a cost of 6,00 CAD . <URL> However , the problem comes from the fact that , as its name suggests , it 's not an actual stamp , but rather a coupon , which must be redeemed for a local stamp at a local post office in the country from which the reply mailing is to be made . ( The usage procedure is actually even documented as such right on their web-site . ) The above would go in contradiction with the requirement of having a " pre-paid envelope " -- after all , instead of attaching said coupon , it might as well be easier to provide a two 1 USD bills ( see cost below ) , which , after all , can surely be be exchanged for adequate postage with more ease than having to deal with some sort of coupon most people have never heard of , and which appears to specifically require a visit to the Post Office . As per <URL> , it generally costs only a couple of times more to post letters internationally than domestically . As of 2015-05-09 , one domestic first-class USPS stamp with a denomination value of FOREVER costs 0,49 USD ( the FOREVER stamps will correspondingly and automatically increase in value if the price to post goes up ) , and such one stamp is sufficient for posting any small letter from any state to any other state . As per <URL> , it currently costs 1,15 USD to mail a letter at or below 57 grams ( 2 ounces ) from US to Canada , thus three such stamps at 1,47 USD should be sufficient to post internationally . As such , the easiest solution would be to buy and affix three FOREVER stamps to the reply envelope , either within Canada , or before making a trip there . Additionally , it seems like USPS also has the specifically designated GLOBAL FOREVER USPS stamps , too , which are currently valued at exactly 1,15 USD , and will always be sufficient for international postage .
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
Mt. Pleasant is a small town of fewer than 9,000 residents in a rural county ; there is no municipal mass transportation available . I do see listings for two or three taxi companies ( A2z and Barnes , and sometimes others ) , so you might call ahead to see if they will have cars waiting for the train . Mt. Pleasant is the nearest Amtrak station to Iowa City , home to the huge University of Iowa , but Iowa City taxis may not be interested ( or licensed ) to give you a ride locally within Henry County .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
Your options are by air or by bus . A taxi from Nairobi to the border , and a new taxi from the border to Arusha is of course also an option , but it will not come cheap . As mentioned in the answer from @Carl you will have several options for bus companies at around $ 20 . The pick-up for some companies are at the different hotels . The bus will take you to the Arusha bus station . Safety on roads in any country is always a concern . The road between Nairobi and Arusha has been upgraded some years ago . This usually means the average speed goes up . Travelling along roads in African countries is more dangerous than in any European country . Safety in cars and buses are generally lower - lack of safety belts , driver ignorance or lack of skill , bad roads , bad technical standard on cars , high speed driving , securing of cargo , cattle/donkeys along the road etc. . A drive will , for better or worse , of course give you a different feel for the countries you travel in and Kenya/Tanzania are no exceptions . Your cheapest flight option would be with Precision Air . It currently costs around $ 150 . Since it is an international flight it will take you from Nairobi ( NBO ) to Kilimanjaro international Airport ( JRO ) . The Arusha airport is not an international one . You will have to add the bus ticket from JRO to Arusha . It will set you back from around $ 10 . A taxi will cost you around $ 50 . The distance from JRO to Arusha is around 50 kms , so you will still have to spend an hour or so on the road .
Western Europe is divided north and south by the Alps . For this reason , there are currently no water routes that go all the way from northern to southern Europe . The closest thing for now to a pan-European waterway is a route along the Rhine to Bavaria , to a point just over 100 miles from the Danube . A canal connecting the two was completed in 1992 . This was in the " middle " Alps , still a relatively low elevation containing the sources of the two rivers . Note that while the Rhine goes from northwest to southeast ( upstream ) , the Danube flows mainly east to the Black Sea . So your " southern " leg really ends in Southeast Europe . There are several proposed canal routes . <URL> The most interesting of them would connect the Rhine in Germany to the Rhone in France , linking the north Sea and Mediterranean directly . That 's over hillier country than the Rhine-Danube connection . Another proposed connection is from the upper Elbe to the Danube , across the Czech Republic and Austria , also linking the Oder river in Poland . Those parts of Europe are not as populated or as prosperous as the Rhineland , which is why completion of the connections may take some time . As for reaching the Aegean/Adriatic Seas ? Maybe in another century or two across the Italian and Yugoslavian Alps . The connections mentioned above were envisioned in 1938-9 , probably in connection with World War II >
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Tackling the London-Manchester bit , <URL> runs regular services on this route . If you book in advance , tickets should be under # 20 each way . There are several fast trains an hour , and it takes about 2 hours for the trip . You can get timetables and book tickets on the virgin trains website ( amongst others ) One note about UK advanced train tickets - tickets generally go on sale 3 months in advance . The very cheapest tickets will often sell out that week , but you can normally get some fairly sensibly priced ones for several weeks after . ( There are normally advanced tickets at a couple of different price points for most journeys ) . Finding out exactly when tickets are on sale to does vary in difficulty , <URL> as an example display their booking dates on their homepage , others do n't . Another snag is that tickets are n't released until engineering work is announced . This may mean that weekend tickets go on sale later than weekday ones , and some companies will have their weekend tickets available weeks before others ! Advanced purchase train tickets are almost always for a specific train , and non changeable . They are generally only available on longer journeys , but you can sometimes get a local journey at each end included ( depending on the company ) . I think almost all the train companies offer them , but advanced tickets are generally tied to just that one company . This means that if you want to do a journey that involves two companies , you 'll often need to book two advanced tickets ... Finally , if you 're booking fairly last minute , expect things to be rather expensive , especially on popular routes . If you 're booking on the day / almost on the day , you may be able to save a little bit by taking a slower train . Ask at the ticket office about that , and they 'll tell you if it 's possible . Another option that may be available is <URL> , where you find that splitting your long journey up into lots of local legs can be cheaper ! Oh , and if you 're travelling off peak and with a child , then get a Family Railcard . There 's an annual fee , but you 'll generally save that on any single long journey . You ca n't start too early , and you must have at least one child in the group , but for family leisure journeys it can save a lot .
You can check public transport on site <URL> I made a <URL> to your connection ; you can change the time , date and places of start and end ( by right-click ) . It 's very important wheter your journey will be at weekend or on a workday . At workdays buses and trams runs more often . Anyway , I think that in your case a taxi is the only reasonable and safe solution , because the amount of time is too little to travel by public transport . It would take about 40 mins and you need time to find your bus stop , find platform on railway station etc. . Obviously you can book the taxi in advance . In Poland such companies are usually called " ( Something ) Radio Taxi " , so you can just Google it searching for Radio Taxi Gdańsk . Examples ( with websites in English ) : <URL> <URL>
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
I usually plan my trips with Google Maps . Put both address and click on the public transportation . In your case : <URL> This is a 2 hour travel time for 27 miles and about US$ 5.00 price ( two fares if you get bus and train ) . Notice that you can get the train from the airport parking directly instead of picking up a bus first . You may think about US$ 74.00 for a taxi from this site : <URL>
Well , it 's not yet a full answer , but it 's a start . The ferry leaves Mersin once a week . But ... as I write this ( October 16 , 2012 ) , after having spoken to Anrusstrans , the ferry has not run for the ' past month ' and will not run for ' at least another month ' . ( I might have an opportunity to try them again in April 2013 . Any updates in the meantime are most welcome . )
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
Take a taxi to the nearest MTR Airport Express train station , which would be Tsing Yi or Kowloon . Then take the train . It takes 24 minutes to get to the airport , and <URL> . There are many buses that also go to the airport . You can find a full listing of them <URL> .
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
The <URL> is located just north of Cape Canaveral , and is definitely worth a visit . The best time to visit is obviously when there is a launch occurring at Cape Canaveral . The Space Shuttles may no longer be flying , but there are still regular rocket launches ( the next occurring in just over a day ! ) , however it 's still worth going at any time . There are bus tours available - I ca n't recommend any as I 've never been on one although Google finds several including <URL> - but I would strongly recommend renting a car . Not only will this give you much more flexibility both around time and exactly where you go , but it 'll probably work out to be cheaper , especially if there 's more than one of you . Orlando is the biggest rental car market in the world , so it 's not hard to rent there ! There is no public transport to KSC .
end question
start question
How many people are refused entry by the CBP ?
According to this <URL> ( as of March , 2016 ) Out of more than 1 million visitors/day , only 367 visitors are denied entry and deemed inadmissible , that 's like 0.03 % . There 's no mention of specific visa types .
In the UK , if domestic and international travellers are mixed , you will have to have a photo taken whilst passing through security if you are connecting to a domestic flight . At the gate , they match this photo up with the one taken at security . Details can be found <URL> . To strengthen the security of the United Kingdom border , airports that operate common departure lounges must comply with UK Border Force conditions that are necessary to prevent any circumvention of UK immigration controls . This includes a requirement to capture a facial biometric for each domestic passenger on entry and exit of a departure lounge in order to verify their identity . Update : I think there 's some confusion in the other answers about what the question is exactly . Let 's say you fly Boston - Heathrow - Paris . In this case you do not pass through immigration , but just a security and boarding pass check . You then board your flight to Paris where you would go through immigration . The OP is asking what if you went through security and then attempted to board a domestic flight to , say , MAN , perhaps by swapping a boarding pass with someone else , or just using a second BP you 'd already printed under a different ticket ( though that will also result in failure due to Ready To Fly in LHR ) . What will happen is that you will arrive at the gate with the intention of boarding your domestic flight . You will face the biometric camera and it will not recognise you and you will be denied boarding . The only way of exiting the airport will be through immigration .
Timatic is generally considered the definitive reference for Visas . It 's what most travel agents use when booking tickets , and what most airlines use when verifying you have the correct visa before boarding . In general <URL> is n't free , however a number of websites do allow free access to it , such as <URL> and <URL> . You can use either of these websites to check the requirements not only for your destination , but also any transit points .
No system is so secure that there are no ways around it . Yes , the loophole you describe sort of exists , but it 's not that straightforward in many airports . For one , at pretty much any airport , departing and arriving passengers are strictly separated , making it very difficult to join a crowd of arrivals when you are supposedly departing yourself . Yes , in some cases , it would be possible to sneak out of a queue , or to not walk towards the airplane , but then you somehow have to get out of the airport , or on board another plane . Depending on the airport , this will not be easy and might result , when caught , in all sorts of safety measures being enacted . Then , as @Gagravarr points out , cabin crew typically count the number of passengers on board and reconcile this with the passenger manifest . Having said this , particularly in more out of the way airports , small airports in Africa , for example , safety measures are rather ineffective . But , not only in out of the way airports : <URL> and <URL>
Most UK Visitor in Transit visas are <URL> . Single entry transit visas are rare . But you should ensure that you provide your complete itinerary when you apply for the visa .
While I could n't find anything that pertains strictly to FedEx , I found <URL> website which offers a similar service . Their terms seem to answers your questions . The luggage would go through customs just like any package being sent through the mail would be . Having the contents packed into a suitcase instead of a cardboard box makes little difference to them when screening . There would be no way to avoid a fee . Any fee incurred would be charged to you once your luggage arrives at it 's destination . Just like mailing a package , the customer must provide a list of everything contained in the suitcase . Any duties , taxes or other fees incurred during the customs inspection process will be passed on to the customer . To ensure an expedited customs clearance process and to minimize duties , taxes or other fees imposed by customs or similar authorities , customer is responsible for supplying Luggage Free ® with the complete contents of each Item in the shipment .
I 'm assuming you mean onboard . It 's perfectly safe . I 've travelled from Washington , D.C. to Chicago , and down to Austin , Texas ( two and a half days ) . I 've also done a bit in the Pacific North West , and from NYC to Phily . So I feel I can speak on this a bit . ( I also did a LOT of it in Canada on a coast to coast trip , but that was split up with buses too ) It 's actually my favourite way to travel . Buses are cramped , anti-social , and you have awful places to stop and eat . Trains - well the ones I used , often had wifi , comfy seats , were easy enough to sleep on ( using two seats , but sleeping sitting up works too ) , power points at your chair . In other carriages there were viewing deck carriages with chairs that faced outwards , and snack cars where you could socialise and meet other travellers . People seemed far more open than on buses . I 've done a lot of Greyhound travel in the US , and that was never fun . Some odd types , full on fist fights in front of me , people doing drugs , and buses breaking down ( these were just the worst cases , not every trip ) . The train ran late into Austin , but that was about it . For reference , there seems to no longer be a direct coast to coast , which was what I planned too . I took the <URL> from DC to Chicago , and then from Chicago I took the <URL> down to Austin , and then if you continue on that it does end up in Los Angeles . Not <URL> . Safety wise , I never felt unsafe , and sure , an opportunist might have pick-pocketed me while I was asleep if they were really good , but I 've usually locked up my bags or have them under my feet if I 'm dozing anyway . If you actually mean the trains themselves , <URL> to improve the safety of rail throughout the US , to force rail companies to adopt measures to further improve their systems .
New Years day is a <URL> . So yes , many places will be closed . Indeed , many shops stay closed until the 6th , with winter sales starting again on the 7th of January . This is reflected in a post on <URL> : Restaraunt wise we were amazed at how many closed over New Year . I expected some would be closed on the 1st but some were closed from the 31st till the 6th ! We did struggle to find a place to eat a couple of times and ended up having to go to one of the numerous self service restaurants which are fine but not exactly what we were looking for on holiday . and this recommendation on the same page : I live in Milan and I personally do not reccomend to spend the new year in the city . Basically there is nothing to do . Milan people usually go out of the city for new year 's eve : to ski , on the lake , in the coutryside , to visit other cities . The situation is different in the other Italian cities , like Rome or Florence . Of course many restaurant and clubs are closed , maybe is the worste day to see Milan . So long story short ( unless you have specific sites in mind , in which case I 'd check their individual websites ) , in general a lot of stuff is closed during this holiday period .
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
I believe , all jokes aside , you have four options : Try to ignore it . Obviously , you 're trying this already and it 's not working . But you could turn the tv on , listen to some music , or take a sleeping tablet if you have one . Passive aggressive behaviour . Turn the tv or music up really loudly . Bang on the wall . Hope they 'll take the hint . Cheer them on ! Decide to take delight in exacting your own form <URL> . Order them some food ! Indirect/Direct confrontation . You could yell at them to shut up , that people are trying to sleep , but I 've seen this be ignored even in dorms . You could go around to their room ( since you 've tried the phone ) and knock on the door , and explain the situation and that they 're being unreasonably loud - they may not even realise that the sound is carrying that well ! ( from <URL> ) Use the resources available to you in a nice hotel - call reception . Tell them that you called before and nothing happened , that it 's still going on and that they 're banging on the wall ( you do n't need to say what you think is happening , just that the effect is keeping you up ) , and will they please send someone to knock on the door and tell them there 's been a complaint . More than likely , 3 and 4 are your best bets for a quick response , and # 4 is the most likely to keep you calm - a bad confrontation while you 're overtired ( ala # 3 ) may not be the best thing for you .
how to start : Start small . Do n't think you can cycle long distances without getting in shape . Even across town may well be a challenge for you right now . So start on that , set yourself REALISTIC goals to get in shape , not just your legs but your arms and lungs as well . Start with say 10km trips , then gradually increase that until you can comfortably drive the distance you think your average day 's leg will be in a reasonable amount of time ( would n't do to plan a 200km trip a day and find yourself exhausted after driving 100km in 8 hours for example ) . Do n't think you can exist on energy drinks and granola bars alone . Yes , they make great energy boosts but they 're not exactly healthy as your sole or main source of food . What bike : WAY too broad to answer . Would depend heavily on the routes you plan to take . But overall , you probably want one that 's rugged , relatively light to drive , and is easy to repair BY YOU in the field with whatever 's available from the local blacksmith shoppe . Especially in rural areas ( and many third world countries ) you should n't expect to find well equipped bicycle repair shops with high tech parts and the ability to repair that carbon-carbon frame you just broke driving over a dirt filled pothole . A steel pipe frame is a lot easier to maintain , but of course heavier . Again , set yourself realistic targets . Do n't plan a round the world trip as your first major adventure . Instead plan a trip to the next province for a long weekend , or a week to the next country over.Few hundred kilometers to get a taste , and close enough you can catch a train back in a few hours if things go horribly wrong . Gradually widen that . Maybe a year later drive a thousand kilometers over a week or so , year after that make it 2000 in a month ( yes , as you get further from home things slow down , your support network becomes smaller and slimmer , etc. ) . And then you get the biggest problem : visa , invites ( which you need for many countries ) , travel restrictions , finding places to stay , healthcare , etc. etc. . It 's not for nothing that such endeavours are often undertaken by larger teams with a home support crew handling stuff like that , which can sometimes take months to get the permissions for a country you just have to cross because your travel plans just changed ( natural disasters , wars , etc. ) .
You have to leave before the midnight of the 1st of August ; that means you can stay all day 1st of August , but must clear any immigration formalities before midnight .
It seems you 're going to have to wait out your ban . India is on the list of visa <URL> , and is n't on the <URL> of <URL> ones . This means you have to have one , whether an eVisa or a sticker . Having a Schengen visa makes you <URL> for an eVisa but does n't exempt you from needing one . It is possible to <URL> the decision , note however this could take longer than your ban period , depending on procedure . HOW CAN I APPEAL IF MY APPLICATION IS REJECTED ? Appeal against the rejection of the visa application is made firstly by applying in writing to the agency who refused a visa . If not receiving a positive response , it is possible to apply to a court for appeal . However , the country is open to judicial review of the visa denial are not outnumbered . Also , often time-consuming court process likely to result in the end of the court against the state is weak . Another important aspect , it keeps open to the objection of a state of law in the judicial visa applicants , this case will be looked at the court of that state . Therefore , it is necessary to keep a lawyer in the country .
Provided you would like to go to the Hardrock Cafe in Amsterdam : take the train from Schiphol Airport to Amsterdam Central station ( 15 minutes or so ; you can plan details on <URL> ) . From Amsterdam Central Station take a tram number 1 , 2 or 5 and get out on <URL> ( again , some 15 minutes ) . <URL> ( 5 minutes or less )
Seurasaari is quite similar to Suomenlinna , only smaller . A straight circuit of the island on foot takes about an hour , but there are plenty of interesting old buildings to poke your nose into ( most free , a few not ) , a couple of nice rustic cafes and even two nudist beaches ( one for men , one for women ) , so it 's easy to spend half a day here as well . Most visitors opt to get there on bus 24 from the city , but my favorite way of getting to Seurasaari is on foot , since it 's a nice , easy walk and there are a whole bunch of interesting places along the way . Here 's a half-day itinerary I wrote a while back for Wikivoyage : <URL> And oh , do n't try to cover both islands in one day , that 's too much . If you have to pick only one , my guests have usually found Seurasaari to be the more interesting / " authentically Finnish " of the two . And while neither is particularly enjoyable if the weather is poor , Suomenlinna 's exposed position means it 's actively terrible if it 's cold , windy and/or rainy .
The Aegean website says that <URL> : The only moment in which you can select your seats is upon checking in . Fortunately <URL> Note however that the airline has the right to move you to a different seat if they want to , so guaranteeing that you 'll be sitting together is kind of impossible . It 's likely though that your selected seats wo n't be changed unless there 's a real need for it .
Yes , you can , it even seems to be the expected behaviour . All three alliances have restrictions and rules , from basic expected ones like a maximum number of miles to some random and precise ones like a forbidden combination of carriers ( " When a QF ( Qantas ) marketed , NU ( Japan Transocean Air ) operated flight is part of an itinerary , IB ( Iberia ) ticket stock can not be utilized . " ) . Overall , the same basic conditions regarding flight planning apply to all three alliances : you should get the first ticket about a week before your first flight ( a priori a firm booking with a specific flight on a specific date ) , you should plan all the stops you are going to make , in advance , but not necessarily the dates ( and exact flight number , or even carrier ) . It does not mention precisely how to make these changes for free ( online or at the airport ) , even though the mention of " local fees " probably means you can at least show up at the airport and book a specific flight for an extra fee . Here you can see in details each alliance policy and conditions page : for <URL> , look for " 4.1 . Change of Plans " in the help and it mentions that " Change of travel dates , carriers or flights is free of charge . " ( I suppose that " flight " means in fact flight number ) . for <URL> , the fees for changes are : " USD 0 for date/time/flight number changes ( other than the first sector ) ( local service fee may apply ) " for <URL> , " All remaining flights may be left open ( i.e. without confirmed flight numbers and dates ) , as long as each flight is reserved prior to departure . Tickets can be booked or issued up to one hour before departure in some countries . " So in the end , the change of flight is a basic allowed modification of round-the-world tickets . However , be careful with all rules that apply , it might be worth reading the terms and conditions when you picked an alliance , as buying such a ticket involves thousands of dollars and may impact months of travel .
" Sir/Ma ' am , no thank you . " or " Sir/Ma ' am , I am not interested . " Followed by ( if needed ) " Sir/Ma ' am , I am sorry , but I specifically requested and was given this seat . I am not willing to change to another seat for any reason . Perhaps someone else might wish to help you . "
A two-year tour of <URL> ( 962 places ) is now available , offered by a British luxury company . By the way , it costs about 1 million pounds . It claims to cover all the sites if they are safely accessible . <URL> lists some of the stops .
There are 192 members by the UN ( 193 if you count the Vatican , which is an observer without voting rights ) . There are 196 that qualify as ' independent countries ' . <URL> . <URL> This is debatable . For instance , I would say Taiwan is a country ... many people would disagree with me . Scotland and Wales I would not count as separate countries as they form a willing commonwealth in the UN as the United Kingdom . <URL> puts it at 204 ( including the new South Sudan ) . I would say this one is a little more controversial . It is up for debate if Northern Cyprus is sovereign . I prefer to use <URL> ( I 've seen it before , but I ca n't remember who came up with it ) and say there are 196 countries in the world . The criteria are : Has space or territory which has internationally recognized boundaries ( boundary disputes are OK ) . Has people who live there on an ongoing basis . Has economic activity and an organized economy . A country regulates foreign and domestic trade and issues money . Has the power of social engineering , such as education . Has a transportation system for moving goods and people . Has a government which provides public services and police power . Has sovereignty . No other State should have power over the country 's territory . Has external recognition . A country has been " voted into the club " by other countries Although , admittedly , some of these criteria are rather subjective .
end question
start question
With Airlines using the same programs , can I merge benefits ?
Yes , they are both members of the Star Alliance . So , for being gold on USAirways , you are automatically " Star Gold , " across the entire Star Alliance network . The benefit of first class upgrades ( unfortunately ) is NOT one that you will be able to get when flying on Continental . That being said , most other benefits are reciprocal . For example , priority boarding ? Yup ! Lounge access ( when flying internationally ) ? Yup ! Free checked bag with a higher weight limit ? Yup ! The next question is about miles . Because they are both in the Star Alliance , you can redeem your USAirways miles for flights on Continental , or any of the other 26 + partners they have . Same goes for anyone with Continental miles - they could redeem for flights on USAirways or any of the other 26 + partners as well . So , the key is to not have a few thousand with CO and a few thousand with US . If you 're flying on Continental OR USAirways , make sure you earn miles on USAirways . It will not only help you keep your elite status , but will help you earn miles to later use on partner flights . Be careful though ... Not all flights will earn 100 % of the miles you actually fly . For a full list of which " fares " will earn you miles , check out <URL> . It shows which Continental flights you will be able to earn USAirways miles on . For US ' other partners , <URL> is the link you want to check to ensure you can earn miles . It will show you ALL of their airline partners and which flights you can earn miles on .
A type D visa , like a residence permit , allows you to make short trips to the other Schengen countries -- very much as if you held a long multiple-entry type C visa or were visa-free . You only need to comply with the 90-of-180 days rule for the days you spend in Schengen minus the Czech Republic . The " valid for " field on D visas state the issuing country rather than " Schengen States " , because it is only in that country you get the full rights implied by that visa . The less extensive rights to short visits is something one needs to just know . It is not true that you " can only enter EU from the Czech Republic " . You 're perfectly allowed to enter and exit the Schengen Area through any of the external borders . You should be prepared to explain and document that you 're on your way either to the Czech Republic or to an allowed short trip in one of the other Schengen countries . You should bring your passport such that you can identify yourself to any authorities that might ask . A student ID is unlikely to be accepted by police who are already suspicious enough to ask you for papers .
You can enter China up to the date the visa expires , so in theory making five stays of 90 days possible . However you do need to be wary of the potential for Immigration deciding that you are attempting to live in China without the correct visa , especially if the time between exit/re-entry is only a day or two . Folks with a business visa are less likely to be questioned about this as work related visits often require long stays . But doing this with a tourist visa may lead to secondary questioning after a couple of entries .
If your flight on ANA has a flight number that begins with " NH " , then you can submit that flight to SAS 's EuroBonus for consideration . But how many points you earn will depend on the fare class that was booked . Many times the cheaper fare classes get only a small percentage of what SAS would award ( sometimes no points ) . The SAS website has a brief breakdown of minimum points awarded , but not a detailed explanation <URL> . If the flight is a codeshare and the flight number begins with a " KL " , then the points will be credited towards your FlyingBlue account . If you have n't signed up yet for FlyingBlue , please know that KLM , Air France and Delta all award points equally , so you could choose any of those programs and have your KLM flight credited ( depending on which you might fly the most in the future ) .
From <URL> Can a Visa Waiver Program traveler with more than one passport travel to the United States on the passport that he or she did not use when applying for a travel authorization ? No . Each Visa Waiver Program traveler must have an approved travel authorization for the passport they plan to use before they travel to the United States . If a traveler obtains a new passport , they must submit a new travel authorization application in ESTA using the new passport . A processing fee will be charged for each new application submitted .
This is where you want to go . <URL> booth located in the middle of Times Square will give a discount up to 50 % on the shows currently playing on Broadway . Although I have to warn you that more popular shows and popular times are likely not to be available . What time do you need to get there will depend on the time of the show you want to see and the day of the week . Fridays and the Weekend tend to be the most popular .
In this case , first , you want a live tube map with Google maps underneath . <URL> ( yes , those are the trains moving on the map ! ) As you can now clearly , see , this gives you a couple of options - the District Line ( Green ) and the Central Line ( Red ) . Upminster ( end of the District line ) is your closest stop there.There is a parking lot right next to the tube station , with a couple of hundred parks . The Google Maps satellite view shows that during the day even , this is n't totally full . Epping ( end of the Central Line ) is your second option . This is just near the junction of the M25 and the M11 . It too , has a big parking area next to the station . The downside here is that on Google Maps , it 's showing as completely full . Of course , you ca n't know for sure what time of day these images were taken . Personally I 'd go for the Epping one if you 're getting in early - the District line is one Londoners will not usually trust for reliability , and if you 're early enough you wo n't have to worry about the car park filling up too much . It 's also conveniently close to your M11 turn-off junction .
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
The key in Star Alliance is " operated by " . For example , at one time SAA was not in * A. Lufthansa operated some flights from Europe to JNB , and code-shared others on SAA . As an Air Canada Aeroplan collector , I would get * A miles if I flew on an LH plane , and not if I flew on an SAA plane . This is kind of moot now that SAA joined * A , but the point still holds for other combinations . Now , when you 're looking at a site like Expedia that shows you a wide variety of flights , they will typically tell you who operates it . When you go to your own airline and ask for a multi-leg thing , for example asking Air Canada for YYZ-FRA-JNB , it can be hard to know who is actually operating the non-Air Canada leg . ( Substitute your own airlines and cities as appropriate . ) The answer is usually that it is the airline that uses a 3-digit flight number for it . If they tell you the leg is on LH8765 then it is probably not a LH plane ; but LH876 probably is . ( I say usually because for example Air Canada and United both have some 4-digit flight numbers that are operated by their LCC divisions - Jazz and United Express - but that are treated exactly the same as if they were operated by the mainline carrier . ) Now before you pull your hair out , remember that usually , it does n't even matter because the operator and all the codeshares are all in the same alliance . It only becomes relevant if you happen to know that some of the codeshare partners on the route are not in the alliance . To be sure , I will often do a " wide spectrum " search for the flight I 'm considering , to let them show me the operating carrier so that I can then check my own plan to see what I will get . It 's reasonably difficult to be confident - you have to understand all the fare classes on both your own airline and the operating airline . But you can learn this if you need to and want to .
Code sharing and alliances are two different animals . Code Sharing is when airline A blocks seats on airline B 's route from city XYZ to city DEF . Then sells those seats with airline A 's flight number . Airline A may only contract for one code share route with airline B or it may contract for 50 routes . Airlines can code share with whomever they wish , irregardless of alliances . And they choose the routes they feel match their marketing goals and customer 's needs . Alliances revolve more around joint marketing of all members , plus convenice of connecting travelers with fellow alliance members . And while alliance members frequently code share with each other , the majority of flights are exclusive to the operating carrier .
Yes , you will be on the same plane ( and in the same section , namely , economy . ) As <URL> , these are just different <URL> , both of which are economy fares . The K fare is a cheaper fare class than the W fare . What appears to have happened is that there were no more seats available in the cheaper K fare class when you booked the ticket for your relative , so their ticket ended up in the somewhat more expensive W fare class . In general , this just means that you paid more for your relative 's ticket than for your own . There are a few more small differences , but they probably do n't apply to your situation ( these are mostly just related to things like upgrade eligibility/priority for people who have elite status with the airline . ) In general , as long as you 're on the same flight number on the same date with the same origin city , you are booked on the same plane , regardless of what fare class you have booked ( or what class of service you have booked . )
No , in the specific case of <URL> as jpatokal has already noted , but also , no in general . Accrual of points in multiple programs is expressly prohibited by most programs in the T&amp;C , not just airlines but for frequent dining programs ( you can have multiple credit cards for one program , but a max of one program per credit card ) and rental car and hotel partnerships ( sometimes you can get both car/hotel points and airline points , but only one one partner airline ) . The very <URL> runs against double-dipping . The obvious and original purpose of frequent flyer miles was to encourage people to choose one particular airline over its competitors . So , if you could double-dip -- or triple-dip , or 30-dip -- you 'd no longer have an incentive to fly a particular airline . This is the most fundamental reason why airlines have no interest in allowing accrual to multiple programs . But today , frequent flyer miles are also a huge profit center for airlines -- one of which they must be highly protective . Miles are not " free " even though they seem like a sort of fiat currency that airlines could " print " at will . The airline has no direct interest in where you do your banking or grocery shopping ; none of that money makes it into their coffers . But your bank and your supermarket care , and because a significant number of their customers like miles , they will purchase miles from the airlines to give to their customers as an incentive . During the difficult early 2000s , FFPs were often the only profitable part of an airline 's business , and in a large program contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to the bottom line : even money-bleeding Qantas reported a <URL> in its frequent flyer program last year . This is why airlines are so deeply in bed with their credit card partners -- Delta with American Express , United with Chase , and so on . When Air Canada 's Aeroplan was spun off into a separate company , it reported that <URL> , with only 27 % from Air Canada ( mostly flights ) ! Second , your program has a tremendous amount of information about you that is valuable to marketers -- where you travel to , what kind of tickets you buy at what prices and when you book them , what seasons you will be in different cities , and so on . This has boosted the valuations of FFPs far above what would be expected based on purely revenue-based pricing . When you consider this , there is no scenario in which double-dipping of miles would be profitable to any party except the passenger -- and who has already given the airlines money in exchange for miles in a single program . Your fare has gone to Alaska Airlines , and you requested BA miles for them . Alaska purchases miles from BA and awards them to you . To request AA miles , Alaska would need to purchase and track miles from AA as well . That might make you and a lot of other people happy , but it would annoy BA and AA , who would be jealous of each over over your business , and it would annoy AS , which would incur additional costs because the benefit would probably not increase revenue enough to offset the administration costs and the annoyance of your partners . This is also why it is so difficult to change credit after the fact . If you decided you wanted AA credit instead of BA , you 'd need to ask BA to cancel their credit , and recognize those miles as still available to AS . Then you would ask AS to credit the flight from their stash of AA miles instead . You can see that such changes would incur accounting and other processing costs , and because credits and transfers are generally done in batches/sweeps instead of real time , there is a risk that customers would redeem miles while they were in the midst of being moved from one account to another . Double-dipping scenarios Now , there are a handful of scenarios where you can get away with double-dipping in airline programs , though it 's usually something which seems like double-dipping , but is n't actually . Rebooking on a non-partner airline For example , suppose you have purchased a ticket to fly on Delta , but due to mechanical problems , they are unable to fly you to your connection , and arrange for you to fly on American instead . You give your American AAdvantage number when boarding the AA flight , and receive AA credit for it , but you can also write to Delta and request original routing credit , which they will often give as a customer service gesture . This wo n't work with airlines who are partners , because they will see the credit in each other 's systems and deny the double-dip . If your Asiana flight from San Francisco to Seoul is overbooked , and they put you on the next flight out on United , you wo n't be able to request both Asiana and United credit for it . Non-mileage airline programs Singapore Airlines has two programs : <URL> and the <URL> . KrisFlyer is a traditional frequent flyer program , whereas PPS is a Singapore Airlines-only recognition ( no Star Alliance benefits or equivalent ) for high-revenue flyers . So , if you buy a lot of business - and first-class ti
Since you 're not using an agency , you 'll need a credit card with a big enough limit . In order to get the confirmation in order , they will need to get the charge approved and posted to your account . When you cancel , you 'll get a credit from them . Time it so that the debit and credit fall within the same billing cycle to avoid having to make a payment or accrue interest . Cancel well in advance of the flight , do n't check in , and use the same website you used to book the ticket . Booking with a Chinese carrier can be expensive . You 're getting the money back ( probably ) , but there will be a sizable charge ( could easily be several thousand RMB ) posted to your card . You may also incur foreign transaction or currency conversion fees from your card provider , quite possibly both coming and going , and these will not be refunded . <URL> will let you cancel full fare economy class tickets for free , as long as you do n't wait until the last minute to do it . I put together a sample ticket on their site from Ho Chi Minh to Guangzhou , leaving May 7 and returning May 8 . Full fare economy price : ~ 8500CNY ( ~ 1400USD ) . To see the details of their cancellation policy , you have to actually select an itinerary through the booking interface , because the refund policies vary by ticket type . 1.3 Rebooking Fee ( per change ) : free to change/rebook . Passengers will also need to pay the difference in fare ( if any ) . For tickets booked on Air China official website , rebooking can be done through the official website or 95583 . For tickets booked through other channels like Taobao flagship store , rebooking can be done through 95583 only . [ 95583 is a special service number you can call only via a Chinese mobile carrier . ] 1.6 Refund fees ( children 's ticket are subject to the same standard that apply to adult tickets ) : Free to refund . For refunds of partially used tickets , the refund amount will be calculated after deducting the fare and taxes corresponding to the flight segment ( s ) used . <URL> ( emphasis added ) : 10.3 Voluntary Refunds 10.3.1 If you are entitled to a refund of your Ticket for reasons other than those set out in 10.2 , the amount of the refund shall be : 10.3.1.1 if no portion of the Ticket has been used , an amount equal to the fare paid , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees ; 10.3.1.2 if a portion of the Ticket has been used , the refund will be an amount equal to the difference between the fare paid and the applicable fare for travel between the points for which the Ticket has been used , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees . 10.5 Right to Refuse Refund 10.5.1 We may refuse a refund where application is made after the expiry of the validity of the Ticket . 10.5.2 We may refuse a refund on a Ticket which has been presented to us , or to Government officials , as evidence of intention to depart from a country , unless you establish to our satisfaction that you have permission to remain in the country or that you will depart from that country by another carrier or another means of transport . That last bit is most likely intended for trying to cancel the return trip after arriving in China , but could technically be employed in your case . The Air China website is actually quite good as Chinese e-commerce platforms go . To cancel , <URL> , click the cancel tab , enter your information , and confirm through . If there 's some problem with the site , it should n't be an issue getting English language <URL> , but you may need to make an international call as I do n't know if the <URL> have English speaking reps. You can probably also cancel by logging in and viewing your details , but I ca n't verify that at this time . For a much lesser charge , ITA Matrix lists China Southern as the cheapest carrier at ~ 7m VND ( ~ 325 USD ) ( same dates and airports ) . <URL> does n't list anything terribly specific either way about cancellations , though it does sound relatively reasonable . After actually picking out an itinerary on their site , I was able to find this ( translation by Google ; no link as it 's JSP generated ) : Cancel Totally unused tickets Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 20.00 ( usd ) . Partially used ticket Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 40.00 ( usd ) . <URL> . They 're a reputable site for English language booking of transportation within China . The copyright notice at the bottom says 2010 , so I do n't know if the data is out of date . According to them , most of the carriers charge a 5 % cancellation fee assuming you cancel well in advance and are flying a full class economy fare . Discounted fares have much steeper cancellation penalties . I have not vetted most of this information , but it matches my experiences with Air China and China Eastern . I also do n't cancel flights much , so take that for what it 's worth .
When exactly does your OPT expire - at Christmas as you 've stated , or 60 days beforehand ? Presuming it expires at Christmas , then you are legally able to stay in the US for 60 days after expiry . You are NOT allowed to work during that period , but you can legally stay in the country for other purposes , so if you 're planning to be a tourist for less than 60 days , AND you do not plan to leave the US during that time , then you 're good ! Once you leave the US after the expiry of your OPT , then you are NOT allowed to re-enter using the OPT - even if it is still within the 60 day grace period . However , as a Canadian Citizen you are allowed to re-enter the US as a tourist . Technically there is no reason that you could not do the immediately ( " same day " ) , however as with all entries it is at the discretion of the immigration officials to determine if they believe you are entering for the purposes you 're stating or not . If they believe that you are re-entering the US for the purposes of working , then they can deny your entry . How likely this is to occur will depend on your exact situation - if it were me I would have as much paperwork as possible available to show that you are a tourist rather than returning to work .
The TSA has a page on " <URL> " for passing through a security checkpoint . The most important part on this page for you is : Not having an ID , does not necessarily mean a passenger wo n't be allowed to fly . If passengers are willing to provide additional information , we have other means of substantiating someone 's identity , like using publicly available databases . Whilst it 's likely that a University photo ID would not be sufficient ( unless it was issued in a way to meet " REAL ID " requirements ) , your US Visa , especially when combined with an expired passport , would certainly be sufficient to prove your identity . If required , they could even carry out additional checks such as fingerprints to confirm your identity ( as these would have been taken when your visa was issued ) , although realistically I can not see this happening . I would plan to arrive at the airport a little earlier than required in case the additional checks take extra time , but I would not expect you to have any problems getting through . Personally I 've also been able to go through TSA checkpoints on two occasions using an Australian drivers license . I did n't intend to , but grabbed the wrong license from my wallet - and both times they commented on it and then let me through without any further checks . I certainly would n't rely on that working ( especially if your home-country license does n't include security features like holograms/etc ) , but it 's worked for me ...
I 've flown directly over the north pole on a route from ATL to PEK ( beijing ) . Here 's a pic of the seatback flight map from a United 747 , where I spent the entire flight with my face pressed to the window . Amazing scenery from Hudson Bay north through Baffin Island and on . It was July of 2008 . When we crossed the pole ( as indicated in the flight map ) the icon of the airplane began to flip back and forth , not knowing exactly which way it was pointing . I thought that was really cool and shot video of it trying to establish it 's direction over the course of about 3 mins . Once we get a little bit of distance from magnetic north , the icon settled down and pointed toward Beijing .
How an airlines handles musical instruments like guitars depends on the one you are flying with . Some require you to put it into check-in luggage . Some allow you to carry it on-board ; either by paying an excess baggage fee or by buying an extra seat ( perhaps at a discounted rate ) . Many low-cost airlines either force you to check-in or buy a full-cost seat for it . With low-cost airlines , you also may need to book the music instrument upgrade online before your flight , otherwise you end up paying at excess baggage rates at the airport . There are very few airlines who offer a free seat ( even to economy class fliers ) if the flight has seats available . One airlines that does this in the international sector is <URL> .
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
Too late , but for future reference and other people who are wondering : I celebrated near Skövde . Every place we visited or passed on a roadtrip after midsommar had a midsommarstång , so you can go to basically any city . Examples near Copenhagen/Lund are Falsterbö and Vikhög . Pick a city , and search google images for " cityname midsommar " , to see where they celebrate , as it differs in every place ( some use a park in the village , others a castle , some might be on a beach , ... ) . So pick a place and see if you can reach it by public transport . Or pick a place you can reach , and see if it 's good for you . Since most people do n't celebrate in a city , but rather in a small town , a small village does n't mean the festivities will be small . Looking at footage from previous years should give a good impression about how and where it 's celebrated in a given town .
end question
start question
How early before departure can I reserve train tickets in Germany ?
German railway tickets can usually be booked online 91 days in advance , see <URL> under " Terms and conditions " for flexible tickets . Discount offers may have different conditions : Pre-sales deadline : From 91 days until shortly before departure There are some exceptions however . If e.g. a timetable change is scheduled and the new timetable is not yet fixed , a booking may still not be possible less than 91 days in advance .
I do recall Paris metro tickets being available on the Eurostar and at the information desk in London , but that was a few years ago and may well no longer be true . The price is rather more expensive than if you get them in Paris . There generally is n't that much of a queue in Paris Nord , especially outside peak hour . This is one of Paris 's busiest stations and one Eurostar is n't that much of a load . Most travelers head for the most visible ticket selling machines , but there are many machines in different corners of the station . Head to the far end of the platform ( where the suburban services leave ; suburban ticket selling machines , such as the one pictured on <URL> , sell metro tickets as well ) . Or head downstairs into the metro/RER area , and spread out a little ; that 's often enough not to have to queue much if at all .
This is where you want to go . <URL> booth located in the middle of Times Square will give a discount up to 50 % on the shows currently playing on Broadway . Although I have to warn you that more popular shows and popular times are likely not to be available . What time do you need to get there will depend on the time of the show you want to see and the day of the week . Fridays and the Weekend tend to be the most popular .
This situation is hard to answer , as the trains has much more stable schedule rather than planes , so there are no such situations I can find about Russian railways . This could be two ways - the border officers would have a previous date stamps or not . If the train would be delayed and dates switched , your friend still has a trouble . But , again , this situation is no so probable as the trains in Moldova have n't been delayed recently . However , in 2014 there was an accident on this train ( <URL> ) and it has been delayed for a 6 hours . After that , before the accident results were fixed , trains were delayed up to 4 hours ( <URL> ) on this route . So , if your friend feels unlucky , she can use other options , but I think this is safe for she to use this train , as in case of emergency it will be easier to explain the visa date expiration .
I can answer " What risk is there on the ICE to not getting a seat reservation ? " for the Dutch part , as I take this train every work day , without reservation . There is an electronic display above each pair of seats that says on which stretch the seat is reserved , e.g. if it says " Utrecht - Frankfurt " and you sit there when the train is in Utrecht , you are likely to be asked to move to another seat . Many of these people do show up ( but not all of them ) . There are also 6-seat rooms that have the displays besides the doors . There are also seats that say " Ggf . freigeben " . It means that the seat may be reserved , it was available for " Express Reservierung " ( do n't ask me how to do an express reservation ) . In practice you wo n't often have to stand up if you sit here , but it does happen . Many seats will also show no reservation , so it would be best to pick one of those . Most of the time , there is enough place to sit , so a reservation is n't really necessary . On some times and some days the train may be very full , mostly due to inside-Netherlands commuters like me ( we leave in Arnhem at the latest ) , and on some moments like the start of the weekend due to actual international travellers . Then you 're unlucky and will have to stand , but luckily the Bistro serves drinks ... After Arnhem , the train becomes much quieter . I do n't know if it becomes busier again after Duisburg .
You would have to get a prepaid card ; but you wont be able to make calls to India from a prepaid number - a 20 Euro charge will probably give you around 5mins talktime to foreign countries before it is depleted ... Get one of those phone cards where you call a special number and you have much better rates ( " calling cards " , see comments ) ; the area around the Main Train station in Frankfurt should have shops who sell those cards . You are probably better off using skype to call home . Do n't buy anything at the Airport ; too expensive .
You can return a rental car early , but whether you get any refund , or even get penalized for the early return , depends on the terms and conditions spelled out in your particular rental agreement . By returning early , you may forfeit certain discounts . For example , a rental car agency may be willing to give you a weekly rate for a five-day rental , but switch to the daily rate for a four-day rental . By returning the car early , the rental car agency may further claim that your original contract has been violated , allowing them to charge a higher rate , but that will not be true for every company or for every jurisdiction . Some agencies may charge an early return fee for postpaid hires . Alamo is well-known for charging $ 15 for early returns , and there are many anecdotes of agency absurdities like <URL> for returning a car 10 minutes early . The reason for the charge , as <URL> is to compensate us in part for our inability to rent your vehicle during the time reserved for your use . On prepaid rentals , again , whether or not you receive any refund for the time remaining depends on your agreement . <URL> that they will recalculate charges based on the actual time rented , while their competitors Hertz and Alamo do not -- but see above for other shadiness from Budget .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
I know that German law requires tires apt for snow in winter time Very close , but no cigar . The original law is : § 2 Abs . 3a Satz 1 StVO : Bei Glatteis , Schneeglätte , Schneematsch , Eis - oder Reifglätte darf ein Kraftfahrzeug nur mit Reifen gefahren werden , welche die in Anhang II Nummer 2.2 der Richtlinie 92/23/EWG des Rates vom 31 . März 1992 über Reifen von Kraftfahrzeugen und Kraftfahrzeugan hängern und über ihre Montage ( ABl . L 129 vom 14.5.1992 , S. 95 ) , die zuletzt durch die Richtlinie 2005/11/EG ( ABl . L 46 vom 17.2.2005 , S. 42 ) geändert worden ist , beschriebenen Eigenschaften erfüllen ( M+S - Reifen ) Translation : " If ( all possible combinations of slippery conditions ) happens , a car may only be driven with ( blah ) M+S tires " . It means that as long as the weather and the streets are fine , you may use summer tires , there is no time limit . But as noone can predict for sure when snow or black ice is coming , it is recommend that you use winter tires from October to April . EDIT : For the second question : Yes , you can use all-year tires .
Nepalese citizens require a visa to visit the UK . Having a residence permit from another EU/EEC country does not free you from any UK visitor visa requirements . A residence permit from an EU/EEC country may free you from transit visa requirements . I would however assume that a EU residence permit will ease the application process and make it more probable that your application will be granted .
According to their website , they only release some tickets online , so " Sold Out " does n't actually mean you ca n't go , only that the tickets released online have been sold out . From the <URL> they suggest their tickets may be bought out by scalpers : Resellers of our entrance tickets are active on the internet . They buy up our entrance tickets online , and attempt to sell them at a large profit , often for double the price . This is not permitted . Do not buy tickets from these organisations ; you may be refused entry . ... and in the <URL> ... I want to make a timed reservation using the online reservation system on the website , but I see that very few times are left available . Is the service really fully booked , or is there another way to make a reservation ? On the website you can see exactly what times are still available . If you still want to come at a particular time for which no more online tickets are available , then you can always buy tickets at the Anne Frank House entry desk . However , you may have to wait in the queue . The place is almost always busy as noted by many reviews online and from my own experience as well . Here are some tips ( some are common sense ) : Summer months ( especially July-August ) will be a lot busier than other times of the year . Go in winter when people are less inclined to queue outside . Weekends will be busier than weekdays . Check the <URL> and arrive a half-hour before opening ( or earlier ) . The wait times later in the day can reach over 3 hours ( in peak periods ) . Go in the evenings ( after 5 or 6pm ) when the queues are shorter . This wo n't work in Summer however . Some third parties may sell " general entrance tickets " but these wo n't let you skip the line , I think you need to exchange these at the ticket counter When purchasing tickets at the counter , they must be used then , so you ca n't purchase them for later in the day or another day You could try to join organised tours that claim they can <URL> . If you do manage to get a ticket online , this allows entry at a specific time on a particular day , and you wo n't have to wait in line , there is a separate entrance . Finally if you do see a line , <URL> Estimating the wait How can you gauge your time ? If the line is an L shape , ending just along the Westerkerk , that 's about an hour . If the line is an L shape but ends past the Westerkerk and at the Keizergracht canal , that 's two hours . If the line is a Z and has now turned at the Keizergracht canal and is running behind the Westerkerk , that 's three hours . Any longer , well , you do the math .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
Next to travel.se I am also a big fan of <URL> . The userinterface might not be up to current standards , but they seem quite complete in their listings . as expected they do list the <URL> Tickets seems to be available through <URL> , or purchase tickets to events <URL>
This answer is solely based on personal experience . Having lived through the paper-to-magnetic ATM ticket transition I can say that the tickets are valid forever provided that : The ticketing system ( printing and reading machines ) does n't change The time lapse to use/convert old tickets does n't expire Indeed I 've used paper tickets for several years after the new magnetic ones were introduced , so long as the stamping machines could be found on both metro and trams . It is safe to assume that the current system used by ATM ( the SBME ) is here to stay for a while , and that your tickets should still be valid in a year time ( August 2016 ) . Should the reading machine fail to accept them due to a faulty magnetic strip or for some other reason , you can always ask a staff member or at an ATM Point for a replacement , provided that the ticket is unused . Quoting from <URL> : What should I do if the stamping machine does not accept my magnetic ticket ? Magnetic tickets which are still valid or which have not been used up ( carnet of 10 tickets , weekly 2x6 , BI4 ) and which are still valid , for which the stamping machine display shows " Titolo non corretto " ( Incorrect ticket ) , can be replaced at ATM Points or by Station Operators .
Since you are looking for products from a specific distillery or possibly advice on premium brandy , I do n't think you would be well-served by supermarkets like Hit , Marktkauf , Real or Rewe . You need to track down a specialist shop . Searches for " Kirschwasser " or " Obstbrände " ( fruit brandy ) did not yield anything useful but looking for <URL> returns a few promising results ( I ca n't personally vouch for any of them ) . Alternatively , you might also try a large upscale department store . I do n't know Frankfurt very well so I might forget a local institution like KaDeWe in Berlin but I would try Karstadt or Galeria Kaufhof . Following a comment by @GayotFow : There is also a permanent market called the <URL> where some merchants offer various fruit brandies . In all cases , your odds of finding Schladerer products do not seem very high but you should at least find some other premium cherry brandy and , with a bit of luck , someone who could advise you on the best substitution . If you are feeling adventurous and since you plan to buy two bottles , you could even try two different distilleries !
It certainly can be done -- is it reasonable , well that depends on your definition ... You 're going to have two major issues here . Visas You likely need visas for the places you 're visiting ( Russia , Mongolia , China ) , and they will need proof of onwards travel . You 'll likely have to get a specialist to help anyway and the overall visa validity is going to limit your options . Tickets If you do n't speak the local language getting tickets in some smaller places may be problematic -- this does n't mean it 's impossible with some help . However , let me quote from <URL> : But for travel between Russia and Mongolia or China , here 's a reality check : Demand exceeds supply for the two weekly Moscow-Beijing Trans-Mongolian &amp; Trans-Manchurian trains ( trains 4 &amp; 20 ) , also the weekly Moscow-Ulan Bator train ( train 6 ) , especially in the busy May-September peak season . Russian Railways opens bookings to travel agencies 60 days before departure , and Russian travel agencies buy up all the tickets to resell them at a mark-up . Station staff may therefore tell you that these trains are all sold out even if you went to the station the moment bookings opened to the public 45 days before departure , although you may be able to buy tickets if you called one of the agencies . If you want to use these trains , you should pre-book through an agency as shown in option 2 or 3 below . Ulan Bator to Beijing is also a pinch-point , as there are only 2 trains a week , so this too is best booked in advance through an agency . Which does n't mean you ca n't book through an agency from wherever you happen to be staying , but that may prove difficult . You 'll also see that trains are infrequent so if you do n't manage to get on a train be prepared to be stuck wherever you are for a few more days ( and have to pay the costs associated with that ) . Is it going to cost more ? Probably not , if you manage to get tickets at each station . Otherwise it 's difficult to say , prices seem reasonably fixed but if you 're dealing with agencies and booking with short notice it may inflate the price . So , possible -- certainly . Reasonable ? That entirely depends on what sort of traveler you , how much time , money and flexibility you have .
The only requirement is that the boarding pass must be " same day " , so there is no real limit as to when you will be allowed through security as long as it 's the same day as the departure . The only exception to this would be a flight leaving shortly after midnight in which case you will be allowed through security the day before , although in this case it 's possible you would be given some additional scrutiny by the TSA if you were to attempt to pass through security too far in advance .
In April , the only period to watch out for would be <URL> at the very end of the month ( April 29-May 5 ) , when transport gets packed . Early April will be fine though , and you 'll have no problem reserving seats on the same day .
TL ; DR : If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Detailed explanation , with pictures : The problem is that there is no single " the price " that goes up and down . On any given flight you can buy as many as a dozen different tickets , each at a different price . They carry different privileges -- eligible to earn frequent flyer miles , lower change fees , lounge access , seat selection included , less credits needed to upgrade , free meal , etc -- depending on the airline . Often , some or all of those privileges mean very little to you and you will just buy the cheapest one . When all of the absolutely cheapest ones are gone , you have to buy the next most expensive class , and that means you will pay more . So how do prices go up ? By the cheapest seats getting bought . How do they go down ? By those seats being cancelled and returned to the pool ( unlikely , since they have high change fees and are bought by people who have firm plans ) , by discount codes or overall " seat sales " being issued , or by seats being moved from one class to another . That last thing is called " yield management " and it is what some very smart people do for a living . They do n't want a plane to go out with an empty seat ( getting $ 0 for it ) but they do n't want to sell it to you 3 months in advance for $ 200 if somebody with an urgent need to travel would pay $ 1500 for it the week of the flight . So they might decide to move an unsold seat from the $ 1500 fare class to the $ 200 fare class , but only if they are sure that 's the only way they 'll sell it . You can see that they can go out with an empty seat 5 times , and the 6th time sell the seat for a premium , and still be ahead overall . They are pretty good at guessing how many " urgent needs " are likely to arise in a given week . And trust me , the holiday season is rich in " urgent needs " . The chances of cheaper seats being available right when everyone wants to fly are slim to none . There are ways to watch the fare classes on a given flight . For example Air Canada offers Tango , Tango Plus , Latitude , Discount Business , and Business . Tango and Tango plus actually have some smaller fare classes inside them . If you look at a random city pair on a random day , you will see something like this : You can see that already , on many of the flights , all of the Tango fares are gone . There are clearly two prices for Tango , and only one flight has the cheaper one left . Similarly there are 3 prices for Tango Plus . And so on . As it gets closer and closer , fares will disappear from some flights . Over time , you can get familiar with the patterns between two cities . You might notice that the 7am flight is alway last to lose its cheap fares , and wait till you see a pattern like this one before you buy . As always , it helps to be unusual . If you prefer a flight at a time of day most people do n't ( like 7am ) you can pay less . If you are n't trying to fly the Friday before Xmas , you 'll pay less . And so on . But look at the difference between Tango and Tango plus here . When all that 's left is $ 597 fares on every flight , they can have a 20 % off sale and bring it down to $ 477 - but you would have been better off with $ 364 in the first place . If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Update Nov 7th , two weeks later : Look what has now happened to that same YYZ-YVR flight on the same date , Dec 23rd : Every flight has gone up dramatically , except ( for some strange reason ) for the last flight of the day . Waiting a few weeks to book would have cost you hundreds of dollars . Let 's also look at a flight two weeks later ( the same distance from today as my first set of prices , but not a holiday ) See how much cheaper those Dec 23rd flights might have been before Oct 23rd , when I took the first screenshot ? The cheapest is 229 ( each way , before taxes and addons , but that 's not the point ) while today the cheapest for the 23rd is 374 , almost double , and if landing at 1am Vancouver time , 4 am body time , does n't seem feasible then it 's going to be $ 607 , almost triple . Ouch . I see no benefit to waiting ... but I plan to update this answer again in a few weeks :-) Update Nov 24th , two-and-a-bit weeks closer to Xmas : Still looking at YYZ-YVR on Friday Dec 23rd , same airline : Now it 's really awful . The cheapest is $ 607 , in fact some of the economy classes now being sold cost more than sitting in business class would cost ! Again let 's advance to some point as far away from now as Dec 23rd was when I started this . Say Jan 23rd . Wow ! Now some flights are as little as $ 199 ! Notice also that there are two less flights on Jan 23rd than on Dec 23rd . The airline has added as much capacity as it can for the route on t
end question
start question
Does having a US drivers ' license reduce car insurance versus a Dutch drivers ' license in the US ?
The exact requirements vary from state to state , but in New York it appears that there is no requirement for you to get a NY Drivers License ( as opposed to some other states where once you have been a resident for more than 3 months your home country drivers license is no longer valid ) . However on a J1 visa you can optionally get a local drivers license , as long as your visa length is greater than 1 year , AND you have at least 6 months of validity on the visa remaining . As far as whether it 's worth doing this for the purpose of insurance , it depends on what type of insurance you are after . For rental car insurance , there is no difference in cost of the insurance depending on the type of license you have . If you are getting the insurance from the rental car company ( CDP/LDW/etc ) then they will not vary it depending on the type of license you have . If you are getting it via travel insurance or credit card insurance then again it will not vary based on your license - but be sure to read the fine print to make sure it 's covered ! If you are looking at buying a car , then it will make a difference , but be prepared for a shock either way . Many insurance companies will not offer you insurance if you do not have a US drivers license . I 've been told there are some that will - especially for medium-term tourists - but expect to pay a lot for it . If you do have a US drivers license then you will be able to get coverage , but it will not be cheap . Every insurance company I 've ever looked at will ask you how long you 've been licensed in the US , and will penalize you heavily for anything below 18 months/3 years/5 years ( depending on the company ) . Most will also ask how long you 've held a license in another country , and may reduce the price slightly due to your overseas license - but it wo n't be by much . Plugging your details , along with those of the type of car you might consider buying , into some of the insurance companies websites will probably be very telling for you - both in terms of whether they will allow you to purchase coverage without a US license , and how much they will charge with only 1-2 months license history in the US .
According to the <URL> : U.S. driver 's licenses may be used in Guatemala for a period of thirty days . So the officer was right . Anyway , according to the same page , you have three options to drive there after the thirty days : International Driver 's Licenses : We understand that Guatemala recognizes the International Driver 's License , which is available in the United States through chapters of the American Automobile Association ( AAA ) . When driving with an International Driver 's License , a valid U.S. state license should also be carried . Temporary Driving Permits or Permisos : The Guatemalan National Civil Police can issue temporary permits or permisos to foreigners who hold valid driver 's licenses from another country and who need to drive in Guatemala beyond their initial thirty day period in the country . Such permisos cost Q30 per month of validity , and may not be issued for a period in excess of the applicant 's authorized stay ( i.e. , the term of their visa ) in Guatemala . There are tramitadores in Guatemala City and elsewhere who may be able to assist an applicant in obtaining such a permiso . When driving with a permiso , one must carry one 's valid foreign driver 's license in addition to the permiso . Permisos can be obtained at : Departamento de Transito Galerias del Sur Calzada Aguilar Batres 34-70 , Zona 11 Tel. (502) 2320-4545 www.dtransito.gob.gt Guatemalan Driver 's Licenses : At the present , we have been advised that the Department of Transit of the National Civil Police will only issue Guatemalan driver 's licenses to persons who are properly documented as residents of Guatemala . Persons who have applied for Guatemalan resident status , but who have not yet been granted that status , are not eligible for Guatemalan driver 's licenses . When applying for a Guatemalan driver 's license , in addition to the application form , foreign residents of Guatemala need to provide the following documents and information to the Department of Transit : ( i ) six cedula-sized photos ; ( ii ) the applicant 's blood type ; ( iii ) whether the applicant is allergic to penicillin ; ( iv ) a photocopy of the applicant 's passport or cedula ; and ( v ) a valid foreign driver 's license ( to avoid having to take the written and driving tests again ) . An applicant will also need to submit to a vision exam .
Use of a foreign license is permitted in any state as long as the license can be read by the police officers . e.g. your name and licence number etc do not include any characters outside the ASCII character set . As far as length of use is concerned it varies from state to state but usually 30 days is permitted with no issues . Other than that you can obtain an International Driving Permit , which will solve your problem . You can check this related question for additional information : <URL>
No , you ca n't use a driving license , because what is required is not just a proof of identity but a proof of nationality . You could have a driving license if you were a British resident , and it would n't give the right to enter Switzerland without a visa . Generally speaking , you need a national identity card or a passport . You can consult the <URL> . Assuming that you 're a British citizen , you need a passport ( or a seaman 's book ) . A British passport without British citizenship also lets you in without a visa , for stays up to 90 days . Beware that British Identity Cards containing under the heading " nationality " the entry " British Citizen " ( B.C. ) are not valid for entry into Switzerland anymore .
They started to migrate to a new system 2 years ago , most of the drivers give you a receipt if you ask for it . And yes , most of the cabs accept credit / debit card . Just in case , If you gon na take it from the Airport , when you take your bag and go to the main hall , you gon na see a hugeeeeee line , this line is for the cabs . . I would mind to check before where you are going . because most of the times they have a board on the wall showing the prices for different neighborhoods according to the distance ! They also have a bus , if you prefer , with air conditioning and wi-fi .
It 's the two-letters code of the state . MO is Missouri . <URL> You can learn them with this <URL> or <URL> .
I am afraid there is no temporary ( nonimmigrant ) visa that allows you to be a tourist and work at the same time ( except for H-1B , H-2B ) , and by work I mean getting paid by any US employer . As a Dutch citizen , you can enter under the visa waiver program which allows you enter for tourism/business/medical reasons only . You will not be allowed to work . To work in the US temporarily you need to have a H-1B visa , to obtain that you need to have a job offer from a US employer . If you managed to get that then you are allowed to work with this employer only and changing the employer is another story . So I do not think this fits your needs . Regarding WWOOF , their page makes it clear that <URL> . Anyway , since WWOOF is not a paid work neither volunteering it will be ok to become a WWOOFer with your tourist visa , according to their website : WWOOF is an opportunity to visit farms affiliated with our network for a cultural and educational exchange . Most people outside the United States who come WWOOFing use a holiday or tourist visa . Although many of the hosts on our network are associated with organic lifestyles and sustainability , it is important to note that persons associated with WWOOF-USA are travelers experiencing a wide variety of sustainable living situations and are not " workers " or " working " for wages or other remuneration in the United States . Bottom line , you need to change your plans a little , removing the " working in restaurants " part will make your trip possible and legal with a tourist visa , other option would be obtaining an immigrant visa which takes time and not as easy as nonimmigrant visa . For more information : <URL> .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
I 'm an American living in Chile , and have rented a car here many times . They ask for ID ( your US passport if you are a tourist ) , your drivers license , and a major credit card . You can rent a manual transmission car if you want . There is no test , or anything . They assume you can drive one , since most people outside the U.S. can . However , automatics are also available ( and are common ) at most rental companies .
You can drive in any US state with a drivers license from any other US state . However , if your residence is no longer in CT , then you must get an OR driver 's license . You can read the <URL> site , but basically it says if you change your residence , you need to change your address with the DMV . As long as you are in OR temporarily ( there 's no good definition for temporarily , so it 's mostly up to you ) then sure , use your CT license .
From <URL> NZ At time of rental , the renter must present a full valid driver 's licence issued from their country of residence that has been held for a minimum of one year . If the licence is not in English , then an International Driver 's Licence is also required . New Zealand law requires you to carry your driver 's licence with you whenever you are driving . Renters from China can use a China Notarial Certificate ( CNC ) which is used in place of an International Driving Permit , however their original Chinese licence MUST accompany the driver as well as the CNC . Sadly the page was dynamic but i found the information through the following method : Reservations - > Qualifications &amp; Requirements - > EnterAiportCode : " AKL " - > ChoseTopic : " Drivers Liscence " - > Go <URL> ( New Zealand Transport Association ) * A current and valid overseas driver licence means that your licence allows you to legally drive in your own country . If you are disqualified from driving or your licence is currently suspended , expired or revoked , then you are not allowed to drive in New Zealand . ) The Keyword there is " valid " my understanding is it is not a valid licence without both parts . However find information from the DVLA on this matter is tricky . The <URL> has the same statement as both the NZTA and Hertz .
In general you 're going to find that car rental agencies will include a surcharge for drivers under 25 . In many cases it 's actually a matter of law of the minimum age for renting , so it 's a matter of company policy and the jurisdiction you 're in . After some quick googling , I found the <URL> for Budget car rentals . If you scroll down to Florida , you 'll see that for most jurisdictions , there 's a surcharge for drivers who are 21-24 , which implies that is the minimum rental age in that jurisdiction . However some cities like Orlando indicate a flat " under 25 " surcharge , which implies that the minimum age may be 18 . If I were in your position , I would find a likely candidate company and city -- such as Budget in Orlando -- and call them . E-Z Rent a car will rent a car to 18-20 year olds with a $ 35/day surcharge but there may be additional policies in place based on jurisdiction . <URL> Avis has a minimum age of 21 . Fox will allow you to rent if aged 19 or older . <URL> These are just the first few results I found when searching . I 'm sure you can find others ; see the note below on search terms to use ( American English differs slightly from British English in this regard . ) For reference in doing further research , we Americans refer to it as a " car rental " ( the concept ) , " renting a car " ( the action ) , and the " rental car " ( the result . We tend to use the verb " hire " to refer to persons being employed in tasks rather than objects being ' hired ' for a time .
Presuming that the " M " in your current license refers to the fact you are licensed to ride a motorcycle in the US , then your US license will be good for up to 3 months duration in Costa Rica . If you do not have a motorcycle license in your home country , then you are only legally allowed to ride scooters up to 50cc . If you are going to be in the country for more than 90 days you will need to get a local license , which presuming you already have a motorcycle license in another country is just a matter of some paperwork ( ie , no riding test/etc ) . You can drive a motorcycle up to 250 cc with a normal license .
As of 2015 a regular NY driver 's license is not compliant with the REAL ID Act . A NY EDL is compliant . NYS <URL> until October 10 , 2016 for using regular driver 's licenses to board flights . New York State has been granted an extension to the REAL ID Act through October 10 , 2016 . What does that mean ? New Yorkers can continue to use their current state-issued driver license or ID card to board a domestic flight until DHS announces otherwise . The DHS 's <URL> says that the REAL ID Act will be enforced for boarding aircraft " no sooner than 2016 " , pending a review : Phase 4 : Boarding federally regulated commercial aircraft . A driver 's license or identification card from a noncompliant state may only be used in conjunction with an acceptable second form of ID for boarding federally regulated commercial aircraft . ... Before a date for Phase 4 is set , DHS will conduct an evaluation to inform a fair and achievable timeline . The date for implementing Phase 4 will be set after the evaluation has been complete ; this phase will occur no sooner than 2016 . <URL> is also very thorough .
I 've had a friend in a similar situation who has had success with <URL> . This is what their website says in terms of license requirements : Documentation - all drivers must produce all parts of a valid driving license . Non-EU license holders are required to have an international driving permit if the license is not in English . Domestic renters must produce a photo ID - passport or driving license . International travelers must produce a passport , proof of return travel and residency information while in the U.K. renters who wish to use a debit card are also required to produce two proofs of address such as a bank or credit card statement , which are less than three months old and may be subject to additional checks . We reserve the right to request additional ID or conduct further ID checks . These may include ID checks with external partners who may check supplied details against databases to which they have access . With that being said I would suggest giving them a call before actually booking a car . Their contact details can be found on <URL> . If they wind up not working out I would suggest scanning local companies on a website such as <URL> . Keep in mind that if you have a license from a different country with an earlier issue date or none at all it 's perfectly legal to show that instead .
Yes it is valid in the UK , according to the <URL> : If you 've got a full and valid licence you can drive any small vehicle ( eg car or motorcycle ) listed on your licence for 12 months from when you last entered Great Britain ( GB ) .
It is indeed true that you can buy insurance at the border when entering Kosovo . The reason being that Kosovo is not a member of the <URL> . The Kosovo Insurance Bureau has <URL> : There are a total of 13 points of sale for border insurance policies , namely : Point of sale in Prishtina -- KIB headquarters Point of sale in Podujeva - Merdare Point of Sales Mitrovica Point of sale in Glloboçica Point of sale in Elez Han Point of sale in Prizren - Vërmica Point of sale in Peja -- Kulla Point of sale in Gjakovë -- Qafe Morin and Qafe Prush Point of sale in Kamenica -- Dheu i Bardhe Point of sale in Gjilani - Muqibabe Point of sale in Mutivode Point of sale in Leposavic - Jarinje * Point of sale in Zubin Potok - Bernjaka * * These two points of sale are currently out of order ( at the time of writing - Aug. 2015 ) . The insurance is valid for the entire length of your trip and its cost is vehicle dependent . In terms of coverage , quoting from the linked KIB website : 2 . What does the Border Insurance cover ? Border insurance covers all damages to third parties that are caused by owners of motor vehicles with foreign registration plates who hold a valid Border Insurance certificate . This insurance does not cover damages incurred to the vehicle that caused the damage , damages caused by unknown persons ( N / N or hit and run ) , damages caused by natural disasters , as well as damages caused by the holder of such insurance to themselves by rollover , animals on the road , etc. .
From <URL> , it appears it 's very much dependent on which states you plan on driving in : If you are a visitor from outside the United States and Canada who plans to drive in the U.S. , check with the motor vehicle department of each state you will drive in for its requirements . Some of the states will require an International Driving Permit ( IDP ) in addition to a valid license from your own country . That 's a bit vague though , and does n't clarify the language thing . Fortunately , <URL> covers this : Tourists may drive in the US for up to a year with a foreign driving licence , provided the issuing country is party to the 1949 Geneva Convention on Road Traffic ( see art. 1 and art. 25 para . 1 ) or to the Convention on the Regulation of Inter-American Automotive Traffic ( Washington , 1943 ) ; most countries are contracting parties . ( Good news , <URL> ! ) They go on to say : If your foreign licence does n't contain a photograph or is written in a language other than English , it 's wise ( but not mandatory ) to obtain an International Driver 's Permit ( IDP ) . Always carry your foreign licence as well as your IDP . Without an IDP it may be necessary to obtain a certified English translation of your foreign driving licence , usually obtainable from your country 's embassy in the US . Hope that helps clarify things .
Call the airline to see if they have any suggestions . <URL> In the event you arrive at the airport without valid identification , because it is lost or at home , you may still be allowed to fly . The TSA officer may ask you to complete a form to include your name and current address , and may ask additional questions to confirm your identity . If your identity is confirmed , you will be allowed to enter the screening checkpoint . You may be subject to additional screening . You will not be allowed to fly if your identity can not be confirmed , you chose to not provide proper identification or you decline to cooperate with the identity verification process .
The behavior and acceptance of this behavior generally differs . Kissing someone on the cheek is generally considered to be a great degree of familiarity with the person you 're doing this with . So here goes : In the business setting I 've only seen this done by French or Canadian ( Quebec ) expats . Between friends it is acceptable but again only if you know the person you 're kissing . When it comes to business environment you kissing a woman as a matter of greeting technically can cost you dearly since it might be spun as sexual harassment and you 're likely to be fired on the spot but this is a discussion for <URL> site . Between friends : Almost anything goes but you have to look at it based upon the situation .
end question
start question
Where is the most city culture rich places in Southern California ?
Los Angeles , being a major city , has many cultural highlights ( as you define them ) . You will find a long list of museums on <URL> . I can particularly think of a few . <URL> , with a particularly interesting architecture and filled with art . The <URL> , in downtown LA. . And the <URL> , a large US museum for art . Regarding venues , The <URL> especially has concerts of the Los Angeles Philarmonic . The <URL> seems to have an extensive list of scheduled events . Los Angeles has a lot of other venues , you can look up on ticketmaster.com or such sites for an artist you would hope to see . Regarding clubs , I do n't know much but I remember seeing a lot of people going out in Hollywood when I visited . I suppose you will have a relatively large choice . Depending on where in Southern California you are going , you can also think think of more north San Francisco , famous for its numerous venues and various styles of " city life of twenty and thirty somethings normally entails " .
70 Euro 's per day is indeed ridiculous . It is however not uncommon to demand a large deposit . So could it be that the 70 euro is to cover the deposit ? It will be difficult to find a sport bike . The surroundings of Amsterdam are really flat , so you only would need a sport bike if you go for speed . When renting a bike , you could ask a city bike with gears . It is not uncommon for city bikes in the Netherlands to have at least 3 gears . A good renting spot for bicycles are the train stations of the Dutch rail ways . Their <URL> is Dutch only which shows that they typically do n't aim for a audience of tourists . Which does n't mean that you ca n't rent a bike there as a tourist . Their prices are however quite affordable : Om een fiets te huren , heeft u een geldig legitimatiebewijs nodig . U betaalt een borg variërend van $ 50 , - ( voor de eenvoudigste fiets ) tot $ 145 , - ( voor een tandem ) . Een merkfiets zonder versnellingen met terugtraprem kost circa $ 7,50 tot $ 15 , - per dag . Dit bedrag is inclusief verzekering tegen diefstal . Vaak is het ook mogelijk om een toerfiets met versnellingen , een tandemfiets of een elektrische fiets te huren . Which translates to : You 'll need formal identification to rent a bike . A deposit ranging from 50 ( for the simplest bike , to 145 ( for a tandem ) is required . A bike from a known brand without gear costs between 7,50 and 15,00 . This includes theft insurance . It is also possible to rent a tourbike with gear , a tandem of an electric bicycle . There are a few train stations in Amsterdam , which offer rental bikes . Amsterdam Central is included , however I would advice to go to a less central station ( e.g. Amsterdam Amstel ) , to avoid the crowds a bit . The bicycles from the train stations are quite decent . In know people who traveled > 200 km in one day on such a rental .
There are probably two acceptable answers here : <URL> - an active volcano in Guatemala , it 's erupted 23 times since the Spanish conquest of Guatemala . It then erupted in 1965 and has been erupting basically continuously since then . <URL> - also in Guatemala ( which makes it easy for you ) , which appears on <URL> in the world . While currently the most activity is lahars ( mud flows ) there are also regular lava flows .
I am not too sure about the " despite colonization " bit . I ca n't really see a pattern , one way or the other . Some ex-British colonies offer visas on arrival for British citizens ( e.g. Kenya ) , some do n't ( e.g. India ) and most treat <URL> or <URL> in exactly the same way . And then for some reason , Luxembourgish and Finnish citizenships -- but not British citizenship -- are the only ones in Europe to enable a visa on arrival in India . At the end of the day , the <URL> ( <URL> ) has British citizens tied with Swedes and Finns and not far above citizens from a host of other European nations , Australia , the US and Canada . So the small differences that do exist might simply be accidents and the main fact in all this is that citizens from rich nations generally have easier access to other countries , whatever their colonial history . Explanations for that might include the fact that it 's good for business and tourism or that these countries have more means to secure agreements through diplomacy , foreign aid , etc. . One glaring difference between UK and US citizens ( lack of visa-free visit or at least visa-on-arrival for Brazil ) might however be explained . I ca n't find an official source for that right now but I think Brazil has a strict reciprocity policy and only grants visa-free access to citizens of countries that do the same for Brazilian citizens . Brazilian citizens <URL> but <URL> .
The official place to exchange currencies is CADECA , this entity purchases and sell certain currencies according to <URL> . These rates are updated daily . You can find CADECAs in the airport , and in major cities . Exchange rates should be the same country wide . Note that you will be exchanging your GBP for CUC and not for Cuban Peso , Also note US Dollars used to have a penalty on top of the change , that you can skip by changing to other currencies first <URL> , but with GBP you will not get the penalty . Almost ALL of the services you will purchase as a tourist are conducted in CUC , so yes , you need CUC to do stuffs . Some private places like restaurants or rent houses do accept foreign currencies , because they can exchange them later in CADECA or in the independent marketplace which have better rates . I would not recommend you as a tourist to participate in such a marketplace , ( although the exchange rate is better than the official CADECA , for reference see <URL> : the Cuban 's craiglist-like website for exchange rates samples ) . I would recommend not to exchange all your cash at once , and go for an official CADECA in the airport and exchange some to pay for your taxi and get to your destination , $ 200 - $ 400 , or more if you need to pay for your booking upon arrival . If you 're going to a rent house maybe you can pay without make the change ( but keep the exchange rate in mind if you do so ) . When you need more cash go and exchange more again .
There 's no simple answer to this because flight prices vary according to time of the year . Flight costs are probably going to be the highest , and while it is not the only indicator , a lower flight price indicates an ' off-season ' . If you try <URL> ( set your airport to Seattle ) then it does indeed seem that cheapest flights in March 2013 would be for Hawaii . However , costs are also likely to be more in Hawaii - so you could also consider a host of Carribbean / Central American countries that may be slightly more expensive as far as flights go but have cheaper hotels . Besides , you did n't really mention a budget , whether you 're going with a family , etc - all factors that can vary the price .
I see that every answer here is going on and on about special , luxury trains . This is specifically what the OP does NOT want . <URL> , trains higher up in the hierarchy are usually costlier . There are some exceptions , such as ' Garib Raths ' where the air-conditioned fares are lower than those of ' Express ' or ' Mail ' trains , but by and large this list shows the hierarchy of trains . Within a specific hierarchy ( such as ' Express ' ) and for a specific fare class such as ' sleeper ' or ' third sleeper ' , the fare is proportional to distance . This implies that for ' regular ' trains , the most expensive fare simply depends upon the distance . This can be found from the list of <URL> .
Off the beach snorkeling means on Krabi side of things ( between Phuket and Krabi ) , all those islands will be fine , as well as small beaches like Ralay . In this day and age , air conditioning is easy to find just about everywhere . Good dining options means a larger island like Phi Phi and to a lesser degree Ralay , but if you can eat Thai food , finding good food is never a problem in Thailand . Outside of Patong , you do n't have to worry about too much night life in July . One issue with a lot of Thai beaches is that they are long sand beaches with nothing to see in terms of snorkeling . Going up along the cost in pang nga , you will not find anything worth snorkeling . Swimming , yes , but nothing to see in most places . From Phuket , you will notice a nice little island about 1km from Kata beach . Do n't even think about it . As soon as you get within a couple hundred meters of the island you discover that the place is full of jelly fishes and that because jetskis keep crisscrossing the place , they often get caught and shreded all over and your whole skin starts itching . Not my fondest memory . On Phuket itself , going to the south most beach and crossing over to the small island should n't be too bad for snorkeling , but I still would recommend the Krabi area instead . It 's also more sheltered too which is a good thing as the rainy season should have started in earnest , causing the waves shaking up the bottom ( poor visibility ) . If you are looking for places a little out of the way , head to Kao Yai/Kao Noi . For some reason these 2 islands never got popular and I suspect there are some decent places to snorkel around there . At worst , it 's 5km from the small Islands ( where you would go if you book a snorkeling tour on Phuket ) and 10km to Krabi A lot of people complain that Phuket suffered from mass tourism , but few people hardly ever go to Kao Yai/noi ( yai means big , noi means small ) . Word of advice , use Agoda.com for your hotel bookings . As soon as you are looking for something more than a hole in the wall , they tend to have the best prices by far .
From <URL> : Language : Serbian 90.1 % ( official ) , Hungarian 3.8 % , Romany ( Gypsy ) 1.1 % , other 4.1 % , unknown 0.9 % ( 2002 census ) So in that respect , Hungarian is the next best bet . However , that 's ' official ' languages and was a 2002 Census - if you keep on top of world affairs , things have changed a lot in that area since then . So reading further down the same page : Serbs are warm people , especially towards tourists . They are very welcoming towards tourists , of which there are not many as the country 's full potential has yet to be reached ! Most Serbs speak some English and are eager to speak it ( seniors , however , are more likely to speak German and/or French ) , so you will be able to find your way around by asking directions . Most tourists come to Serbia in the summer and you can often hear German , Italian , French and English in the streets of Belgrade , while Slovenian tourists pour for New Year holidays . So based on that - English is a pretty good bet , if you speak that ( which it seems you do ) - ask the young people questions for a better success rate . If you speak German or French , I 'd be asking older people for directions etc. .
Yeah , the commute looks ok to me . The <URL> gives travel times of about 19-23 minutes from Sundbyberg . I used Sundbyberg centrum and Isafjordsgatan 39 ( where <URL> is located , with other universities like <URL> very close by ) . Try it for yourself using the exact address of your campus . In fact , we 're talking of a distance of about 6 kilometers , so your best bet -- at least when it 's warm outside -- may well be bicycle . ( Most likely it 's less than 6 km by bike , as I imagine you can cut through the forests/fields near Ursvik . ) If you 're going to be studying there for a while , buying a cheap bike makes sense .
Earthquakes are notoriously hard to predict , for the US they are working on this an <URL> which <URL> the recent earthquake . Giving about ten seconds warning . Which I think may be less than you were looking for ... In general if you 're in an earthquake zone there 's always a ( remote ) chance of a sudden quake . There are minor earthquakes all the time , a sequence of minor earthquakes does not make the ' big one ' more likely . Arguably , smaller quakes relieve pressure and could make big quakes less common , but they could also move things in such a way that it does cause a bigger quake . People have been studying this for years and the best we 've got is ten seconds warning ... There are a few things you can do -- first find out if you 're in an earthquake zone , check the local government for wherever you are or here 's a <URL> of them . Second , know <URL> . Finally know that earthquakes are pretty scary and can be dangerous depending what you 're doing ( i.e. driving over a bridge ) but places that are in earthquake zones are designed to handle even relatively big quakes . Quakes on the scale of the Japanese one a few years ago are incredibly rare and honestly not really worth worrying about ( if it happens , it happens ) . You can track recent earthquakes on <URL> and , yes , there are apps for that -- here 's the <URL> . One thing you can watch for is earthquake caused tsunamis , ( or any tsunamis ) . These are ( mostly ) predictable , often more dangerous than the earthquake , and getting a warning will give you time to take action . Here 's the <URL> and there are apps for that as well but I 've no experience of them so I do n't want to recommend one at random . There is a page at <URL> that looks like it covers a lot of the above . I will say once again , earthquakes and other geological events are very hard to predict . Warnings often err on the side of caution , while some events still take everyone completely by surprise . It 's one of those things you should know how to handle if it happens , and then try and not worry about it to much . I say this as someone that lives less than half a kilometer away from a major fault-line . Quick Edit : The question was changed after I answered to be California specific , I 'm not going to trim the answer just to that since I think it 's generic enough to be applicable . The links I gave are still useful but for specific stuff consider the <URL> and the Southern California Earthquake Center ( <URL> ) . Edit 2 ( three months later ) : I just wanted to edit this to add a link to a upcoming tool called <URL> . It looks to have grown out of ShakeAlert which is linked in the other answer and offers personal and industrial early earthquake warning solutions ( it 's not clear from the site how much warning they can give ) .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
While there is plenty of good advice in the other answers , I feel I have some more to offer that is a little less spontaneous . Sleeping on a plane is a learned skill and it is improved by planning , preparation , and practice . You can change the likelihood of sleep from nearly nil to nearly guaranteed , but not if the first time you start to think about it is as the plane starts to taxi . First , the booking . Generally you have some choice here . Should you leave early in the morning , or late at night ? At 4pm , ensuring you 'll be hungry after a few hours in the air , or at 8pm , when you 're more likely to show up having eaten enough to last you through the night ? If it 's a 7 hour flight and you need to stay awake for 2 hours to get food , you 're not getting more than 5 hours of sleep . Pick a flight that either wo n't require you to sleep much , or that lets you organize the rest of your day to maximize the time you have for sleeping . Also think about whether a glass of wine would help - it 's much easier to get one ( bought in the airport , say ) at 7pm than at 7am . Here is also where you settle window/aisle ( I like window because it gives me a wall to lean on and a few more inches of space from my seat to the wall ) , consider paying for more legroom in a premium seat for $ 100 or so more , and the like . Second , the packing . NEVER count on the airline for pillows , blankets etc. . Sometimes they do n't get them . Sometimes they ca n't give you one until the seatbelt sign is off . Airline pillows are small and weird and most annoyingly , they 're slippery and they fall between your seat and the wall . Bring your own . A bed pillow from home , one of those C-shaped things ( solid or inflatable ) , something . I like an inflatable one with a VERY fuzzy cover and a little pocket for eyeshades : I do n't decline blankets or pillows from the airplane though - they are handy for padding the armrest so I can lean against it or over it without the edge digging into me . Continuing with packing , I bring my own blanket in the form of a pashmina which folds very small but unfolds enough to cover all of me ( 6 ' x 2 ' I suppose . ) I generally use separate blankets for my top and bottom half , to help the crew see that my seatbelt is fastened and to let me move more freely . If the airline does n't give out blankets I 'll use a coat on my legs . My pillow and blanket are familiar and comfortable , they smell right , and I never worry if they 're clean . The eyeshade makes a huge difference also , both in keeping out the light and in telling people you are sleeping and do n't want a drink , a newspaper , dinner , duty free , etc. . And for me , the sensation of the eyeshade on my face reminds me I am supposed to be sleeping . Noise cancelling headphones and a playlist of relaxing and enjoyable music are also on the packing list . These are better than earlugs in my experience , though I always have a few earplugs in the bag just in case . Over-the-ear can be uncomfortable to lie on , so I use earbuds . Plug into the entertainment system when you board , put them in , go to sleep . If you wake later , switch to your playlist and put your seat back . When you have to put your seat up , switch back to their system . I also choose shoes I can slip off and slip back on rather than ones that need tying . Your laceups can be in your checked luggage . So you chose the right flight and seat , you packed the right stuff and you 're at the airport . Eat , drink , go to the bathroom . These are all good ways to pass the time while you 're waiting to board . Also bring an empty water bottle with you that you can fill after security , or buy water in the airport . That way if you wake up thirsty you can immediately fix that and go back to sleep . Now on the plane , all you need to do is sleep . Do n't put the pillow around your neck . You have so little recline , you do n't need to prop your head up . Put it between the side of your head and the wall . Put your ear in the centre hole so it does n't get squished . Coat over legs , blanket over shoulder and chest . Snuggled up warm and cosy , listening to something you like , with a water bottle in easy reach and a clear " leave me alone " sign on your eyes , you will sleep . You just will . And trust me , it is so much better than a book or that movie you never got around to watching in theatres . You will get better at it every time . If you wake up , especially if you 're uncomfortable , change your position . Loosen your seatbelt as much as you can and sort of turn on your side . Or move your feet from on top of the carryon you stuffed under the seat in front of you , to next to it . Adjust your blankets a little . Move your pillow more under your chin . Your approach should be that you will do what you need to do to go back to sleep , not " oh well I tried but I woke up . " Do n't worry about what time it is . You wo n't miss your stop . If you wake up again , then try a third position . You 'll find something comfortable eventually . If you feel anxious when you wake up , especially if you 're getting
According to <URL> ( Twin City 's Slovakian partner ) : Selling points : the tickets in the FLORA TOUR Headquarters on Kúpeľná Street ( Bratislava ) , in the FLORA TOUR Office in the Passenger Port ( Bratislava ) or in FLORA TOUR Office at Schwedenplatz ( Vienna ) . In the Kiosk under Nový most ( Bratislava ) it is possible to make a reservation . The exact location of these selling points is available <URL> .
Los Angeles , being a major city , has many cultural highlights ( as you define them ) . You will find a long list of museums on <URL> . I can particularly think of a few . <URL> , with a particularly interesting architecture and filled with art . The <URL> , in downtown LA. . And the <URL> , a large US museum for art . Regarding venues , The <URL> especially has concerts of the Los Angeles Philarmonic . The <URL> seems to have an extensive list of scheduled events . Los Angeles has a lot of other venues , you can look up on ticketmaster.com or such sites for an artist you would hope to see . Regarding clubs , I do n't know much but I remember seeing a lot of people going out in Hollywood when I visited . I suppose you will have a relatively large choice . Depending on where in Southern California you are going , you can also think think of more north San Francisco , famous for its numerous venues and various styles of " city life of twenty and thirty somethings normally entails " .
For a standardized American breakfast : McDonald 's , Im Tal 6 ( near Marienplatz ) opens at 6:00 ; Hauptbahnhof ( downstairs near S-Bahn ) open 24/7 . Burger King , twice at Hauptbahnhof , open 24/7 . Starbucks , Hauptbahnhof , opens at 3:30 .
Yes you could I guess but I am not sure I would do it , for two reasons : Timing I made a quick ideal case scenario : <URL> <URL> your time in the city 30min back to the airport by train 1h again at the airport 30min last call for boarding before departure time which leaves you with ca. 2h by my calculations to see the city . However that was a best-case scenario and your calculation could go wrong at any time above : delays of your incoming flight queues at immigration and/or security questions at immigration once the tracks where blocked on my train into the city and I waited 30min on the train stopped at a station before resorting to alternative means get lost in Frankfurt I am a fairly risk-averse person and honestly would not do it unless I had an important errand to run and could fall back on taking a taxi back in case , but this is up for your judgement . If you do go , plan ahead every detail , i.e. what terminal you arrive , how to get into town , where to get off , where to walk around , when and how to get back , ... Attractiveness Personally I do n't find Frankfurt that attractive for a visit and if I had a friend come to Germany and could show them only one place , it would be among the last to come to my mind , but hey , you might have only this chance to see Germany and it is better than nothing . Have a look at <URL> beforehand and plan how to get around . Alternatively , sometimes ( and only sometimes ) you get pretty good views of the " skyline " at take-off and landing , <URL> .
Here 's a <URL> about it , including a pointer to the location on <URL> . As you can see , it 's hard to find and there 's barely anything there aside from a few overgrown stone walls . The last couple of photos are of a shrine along the way , not the ruins .
Well , for example , in Christchurch , New Zealand , where we 've had several large earthquakes and nearly 10,000 aftershocks since September 2010 , the city has been altered irreparably . Many buildings have been torn down . We were expecting a windfall with the Rugby World Cup , but all the Christchurch games were cancelled , as were a lot of tourist visits as a result . While the CBD still has sections closed off , many of the tourist destinations in the region ( Lyttleton , Akaroa , the Antarctic Center , Hagley Park , the Museum , Art Gallery , Mt Hutt Ski Field , Kaikoura and more ) are still open or have reopened , and would LOVE tourists to come back in droves ! As you point out , visiting the sites of devastation is not the goal , and indeed in the dire parts of Christchurch they ask people not to come and rubber-neck as the vibrations from cars make some damaged houses shudder , for example . However , even those people would be happy to hear tourists are coming back to the city and region - it 's a beautiful part of the world .
Page 5 , section 8 of this California Board of Equalization <URL> has the answer : Items Sold to Residents of a Foreign Country or Another State We have received complaints from foreign buyers that they were incorrectly advised by retailers that they could receive a refund of the sales tax on items they purchased and picked up in California . They were told they could do this by presenting their receipts at the airport . Although many countries have such a provision for foreign travelers , California does not . Nor does California have this provision for residents of other states . Consequently , if foreign tourists ask about a refund of tax paid on purchases , you should inform them that tax applies to merchandise delivered in California regardless of its ultimate destination .
end question
start question
Can one buy train ticket in Poland on automachines ?
Ticket machines ( for trains ) are not very common in Poland , you 'd rather buy one at the counter . However , it is also possible that the counter will be closed ( depending on how big the station is and what time of day it is ) - in that case you can buy a ticket aboard from the train conductor , you should do this as soon as you get into the train , he should be available in the first compartment of the train , if not - wait for him . The only extra fee will be charged when you buy the ticket at the train while counter at the station was open . Nonetheless ticket price will be the same at the counter and in the machine .
Here are the options I know of regarding buying train tickets in Indonesia : At a train station . Obviously , this sounds like the best idea , but do n't be fooled , you 're in Indonesia and waiting times can be epic . Give it a try , if the queue is huge , just try another option listed below . At a local supermarket ( Indomaret , Alfamart , or else ) . They almost all do it , &amp; the price is the same as indicated on internet . The only challenge can be the language barrier with the employee , but it 's usually easily overcame . After buying , you have a receipt with a train ticket code to print the train ticket at a machine at the train station . Online . <URL> is the official website of the train network of Indonesia . You can see all the train times , but buying ticket seems difficult ( impossible for foreign bank cards ? ) , although good to have an overview of timetable . <URL> is only in Indonesian I believe , but with Google translate it was easy to use it . <URL> is a reseller of train ticket for Indonesia ( no extra fee ) , when buying , you then have a code to print your ticket at a machine at the train station . <URL> is also in English , just change the language using the relevant link at the bottom of the page . I both bought from <URL> and also from the local supermarkets , both worked very well . Just make sure you arrive a bit in advance at the train station ( maybe 45min ) to print out your ticket without too much stress . See the ticket machine below .
Security rules prohibit casual visitors entering a cruise ship while in port , for same security reasons that keep folks from wandering into an aircraft parked at an airport . But as always there are exceptions ... Travel agents can pre-arrange to inspect a ship when it is in port , but this comes with strings attached , such as the volume of business your agency has sent to that cruise line , being escorted around the ship by a crew member , restrictions as to which ports this is possible , etc Some cruise lines and/or ports allow family members onboard during initial boarding at the port of embarkation . But not usually at stops during the cruise .
Purchasing the E-Vignette Online It seems that the vignettes can be purchased after registering on the <URL> . You click on the icon of your vehicle and are redirected to the registration/login page . Pricing Information Regarding the pricing , I could not find any information signalling different prices between on-line and off-the-shelf purchases . I am therefore assuming the prices are the same , and this makes sense since we are talking about an electronic vignette -- no shipping costs , etc. . Here is some information about pricing , taken from <URL> : The amount of the toll depends on the category of the motor vehicle . The toll categories are as follows : D1 : motorcycles , and motor vehicles with a maximum total permissible weight of 3.5 tons , including any trailers . B2 : buses and campers ( with trailers ) with a maximum total permissible weight over 3.5 tons . As of December 2014 , the prices are ( adapted from <URL> ) :
Rental prices are not designed for periods of more than a few days . It might be possible to negotiate a long-term price at a flexible rental business . It 's definitely possible to get a decent used bike for 50-100 EUR . There 's a risk that it could be a stolen one , but almost none of running into problems , even if it is . I 'm pretty sure that shipping a bike from Germany to Egypt and back will cost more than 100 EUR .
Visa applications for Australia can be done completely online ! ( For Australia ) So firstly , to confirm , yes <URL> . Then , apply for it online . There are <URL> . Travelers are not required to visit the Australian embassy nor send in their passports . Once online visa applications are approved , applicants will receive their visa by email , which is recognized by all airlines traveling inbound to Australia and provided that all your travel documents are in order , you should have no trouble boarding your flight to Australia .
Note : Posting as an answer on Mark 's suggestion Indeed , the deals of ViaRail unfortunately only cover a few itineraries , and usually only between major stops . There are few ways to get a good deal with ViaRail . The main one I know of , for cross-country tourism , is the <URL> . It allows you to travel for 21 days and/or 7 one-way trips ( whichever comes first ) . The pass costs from $ 630 to $ 1100 ( plus tax ) In your case , the trip from Winnipeg to Churchill ( round-trip ) is worth $ 300-370 when bought at full price . As I suppose you do n't live in Winnipeg , you can also use the train to get there . It is purely hypothetical , but then , a round-trip from Toronto is worth over $ 400 , and the pass becomes pretty competitive . Especially as you will probably visit Churchill in low season ( I heard best time is around end of October ) , so the pass price is comparable to the round-trip price from Toronto , so you can add some free train rides to your agenda . To add a bit about the pass conditions : you are allowed 1 stopover for each of the 7 one-way trips . With the pass , you can only have access to seats with supersaver/discounted fares , so book ahead ( but you can cancel any trip before train departure ) .
Depends ( tm ) . For Star Alliance RTW tickets , which are probably the single most popular choice ( but not necessarily the cheapest ) , prices do vary considerably by country , although this is largely due to currency fluctuations and you need to do a bit of legwork to figure out how much you can actually save . Here 's a thread discussing the prices , including a handy spreadsheet showing the prices equalized into US dollars as of Jan 2011 : <URL> So a year ago , a YRWSPCL ( the cheapest option ) would have cost you US$ 3282 in Australia , but US$ 2646 from Malawi . Problem is , it 'll cost you a lot more than $ 600 to get to Malawi and back , and as far as I can see none of the countries you can cheaply reach from Oz have much of an edge : NZ is only marginally cheaper at US$ 3059 and eg . Malaysia , Singapore and Thailand are all more expensive . Edit : Here 's a nifty tool that shows current prices for a crapload of RTW fares from points around the world : <URL>
There are trains between these stations once in every two to three hours.You can show up at the railway station and get a ticket . Buses are more frequent and I would suggest that since the journey is not long .
<URL> says that tickets can be booked on the online website of CFR , the Romanian Railway company . <URL> . Quoting from The Man : How to book trains within Romania [ ... ] You can book Romanian domestic train tickets online at www.cfrcalatori.ro , the Romanian Railways ( CFR ) website , including domestic sleeper trains . It will only book the compulsory-reservation mainline trains , not local services , but it 's easy enough to use and should have no problem with non-Romanian credit cards .
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
Some airlines will match , others wo n't , so it 's tough to answer in the abstract As a general rule though , you 're more likely to get matching from a North American airline , and quite unlikely to get it from a European one except during one-off promotions . Also matching inside of an alliance is usually tough to get , between alliances is easier . For some examples , BA , Emirates , Lufthansa and Singapore are known for not offering status matching , where as Delta and Continental do . Things do change over time , but at the moment your best bet is to look through the <URL> , look up your new " local " airlines and see .
Yes , the observation deck of Haneda 's international terminal is the public landside area and open to all . Incidentally , Narita stopped doing checks on entry some time ago , but even when they were doing them , they wanted only ID , not tickets . Plenty of people visit airports to meet or see off passengers .
Booking Sri-Lankan Train Tickets Online <URL> says that to date the only tickets that are bookable online are those for the <URL> and <URL> carriages for the Colombo-Kandy-Badulla journey . The regular trains can not be booked online ( quoting from <URL> ) : How to buy tickets ... The privately-run ExpoRail &amp; Rajadhani carriages Colombo-Kandy-Badulla can be booked online at www.exporail.lk &amp; www.rajadhani.lk . The regular Sri Lanka Railways trains can not be booked online , but it 's easy to buy tickets when you get to Sri Lanka at the station . In Colombo , there is a special ticket window for tourists in the 1st &amp; 2nd class advance booking office at the east end of Colombo Fort station . Since you wish to travel on the Colombo-Kandi stretch , you 'll be able to book that part of the journey on the Rajadhani in advance . <URL> . If you 'd rather take the InterCity train , then you 'll have to go to the ticket office in person or send someone on your behalf . Also note that reservations open 45 days before departure ( quoting from <URL> ) : Reservations for trains with reserved seating such as InterCity Express trains open 45 days in advance ( extended from 10 days in late 2013 ) . Seats in the 1st class observation car from Colombo to Kandy can get fully-booked from time to time , so book a few days ahead if you can , but you may well find seats available on the day of travel . Other trains ( shown as having unreserved seats ) do n't require a reservation , you just buy a ticket on and hop on . Purchasing Tickets in Advance <URL> suggests one possible alternative to online booking : using local travel agencies . The linked site has a few agencies listed . Note that these will obviously charge a fee for the booking . <URL> This is also a valid option , which will probably require you to pay an extra fee to the hotel , or at least tip the staff . The Man also mentions this on the linked page .
Technically , this is not allowed . The <URL> states : If you do not board your train as booked , your entire reservation is subject to cancellation . However , you can call Amtrak and try to change your reservation from Pontiac to Detroit . You may even get a partial refund if the fare would be less .
The Nantes -- La Rochelle -- Bordeaux line <URL> ; intercités trains have no compulsory reservation . From Rennes to Nantes , you would take a TER ( regional train ) , also without reservation . ( Depending on the times , you might end up with a different mixture of TER and intercités , but my point is that this journey does not involve trains requiring a reservation , as long as you do n't take a TGV between Rennes and Redon . ) Unless you have some type of Eurail pass that I have n't heard of and ca n't find any information about , <URL> , not journeys . The pass is valid only on the day you 've ticked the box for ( there 's an exception for night trains which generally count only against the second day ) . So you ca n't put two legs of the journey on the same Eurail day if you do them on a separate day . If you want to avoid ticking two days for this journey , buy one of the tickets separately . The full fare for Rennes -- La Rochelle is 43.60 $ and La Rochelle -- Bordeaux is 28.60 $ .
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
You can certainly buy a belt airside at ATL . Hartsfield-Jackson 's website offers a <URL> , which includes pictures of most of the storefronts -- you need not be familiar with the names ; you can scroll through and find something that does n't sound like a newsstand or electronics store and see from the picture or read from the blurb . For instance , the intro for <URL> mentions that it started out as a retailer for belts ( I 'm not sure if it is for men or women or both ) . You will probably not find any deals , as the stores make their rent by charging " convenience prices " for travelers , and the clothing stores seem to be mostly upper-middle market . But there is probably at least one shop in each concourse with some kind of belt available , e.g. . <URL> on Concourse A , <URL> on B , <URL> on D , <URL> on E and in the Atrium , and <URL> on F.
To clarify things beforehand , liability insurance is not generally needed for bicycling in Lithuania ( to the best of my knowledge ) , but to use the services of Cyclocity Vilnius . <URL> Your responsibility [ ... ] Make sure you have third party liability insurance , which is mandatory in order to use the service . Liability insurance is generally very good to have so my first recommendation would be for you to get one in your home country or country of residence ( you indicate Belarus ) and make sure that the terms &amp; conditions also cover your travel to Vilnius . Otherwise you could try to purchase a liability insurance just for travel . You will likely still be better off with offers from Belarus but you could also try with international providers . The first hit googling for " liability insurance for travel " gives me this ( apparently American , but targeting internationally ) <URL> ( no affiliation ) , I am sure there are many more upon a more thorough search . Alternatively , I found two other providers of bike rental in Vilnius ( they also offer bike tours ) : <URL> <URL> They do not mention need of a liability insurance but be aware that the system is different from Cyclocity ( which is similar to Velib in Paris , i.e. you can drop and take bikes at/from several stations in town ) and you rent a bike e.g. for the day . Finally - though this is not recommended and only my assumption - I do not believe that Cyclocity checks that you do have liability insurance . I would not know how to prove mine , I do not carry around my contract when traveling . And if you do get in trouble , you are in double trouble .
I think many electric hardware stores have these items , walk a couple of streets in the center and I guess you find a couple . Otherwise the feria ( market ) might also have stands that sell that sort of stuff . If all fails , here I have a link to MercadoLibre , the ebay of latin america , they have plenty of these items for sale in the capital : <URL>
end question
start question
Can I enter Canada and return to the UK using different passports ?
Yes you can . Canada has no exit checks . Britain has recently instituted them , but I see no sign that they will require you to exit on a British passport ( they do n't require you to enter on a British passport ) . Neither have a problem with you being a dual citizen . And either passport will get you visa-free access to the other country . <URL> , but in this case it 's not a big deal . Show either one whenever . The only place where it makes a difference is coming to Britain , where showing your British passport gets you in the fast immigration line . ( Strangely there is no equivalent benefit in Canada ) .
All EU citizens are allowed to enter Ukraine without visa and Poland is not an exclusion . However , you can not use ID-card for crossing the border , as stated <URL> ( <URL> ) by the State Border Guard Service . I am almost sure that you wo n't be able to make a transit ( or airport transfer ) with ID as well . Documents required for crossing the state border of Ukraine : Foreign passport ; [ ... ] Attention ! ID-card , which identifies the personality , gives no right to cross the State Border of Ukraine
For EN 446 , no It 's a night train and they do not want people to get on in Potsdam . <URL> , and they responded . ( I had a typo in the train-number . ) <URL> Here 's a free translation to English : Me : Why ca n't I book EC446 from Cologne to Frankfurt/Oder online although it stops there ? DB : Do you mean EN 446 ? In Potsdam we do n't plan for people to get on , only off . That 's why this station can not be booked . Me : Yes , that one . Can I book from Frankfurt and get on in Potsdam anyway ? DB : No , because in Potsdam only deboardings are planned , not boardings ;-) Me : Are there bouncers ? Can I get on later in regular ICE trains ? For example if I have a ticket from Berlin to Cologne , can I get on in Spandau or Wolfsburg ? DB : Our people are on the platform . Of course you can get on later , but remember that seat reservations are forfeit after 15 minutes . So we can conclude that on this particular train , you can not do that . We do n't know why exactly , but if you try anyway and they catch you , they might not let you in . In general , yes You can always leave early or get on late in regular trains . Your tickets with Deutsche Bahn give you the right to be on the train ( or any train on a direct route ) between two stations . They frequently do not check tickets between two or more given stations . There is no way for the conductor to tell if you sat there for one station , two stations or longer if they are passing through the carriage for the first time to check tickets after the fourth station . It can also happen that you get never checked because you got on at the other end of the train and get off at the next station while they are still busy somewhere else . The above Twitter conversation confirms this personal experience . Bonus-Information : If that happens and your printed ticket does not get checked/clipped your City-Ticket in the destination might not be valid . You need to go get it stamped at the information desk in the destination station or local public transport might fine you for not having a ticket .
Firstly keep in mind that the answer to this question will vary significantly depending on the countries involved . Some countries ( eg , the US ) have requirements that if you are a citizen you MUST enter using the passport of that country . So as a US/UK citizen you must always use your US passport when entering the US . The UK does NOT have such a requirement . ie , you can enter the country using either your US or UK passports - as long as the passport you use is valid for the type of trip . eg , if you were planning to be in the UK for the next year , then you could not enter on your US passport , as a US citizen can not legally stay in the UK for that long without a visa . Where this gets messy is what your status is within the UK if you enter using a foreign passport . It could be claimed that you are in the UK as a visiting US citizen , and thus benefits such as government health care/etc might not be available to you . Realistically the probability of this being an issue are low , but possible ...
Will You Break Even ? In my opinion you would be lucky to break even at the end of the trip . The wear-and-tear from such a long journey alone could cause the motorbike to devalue so much as to lose any margin of profit when reselling it . Having said this , why not do some maths ? Assumptions For the purpose of this answer I will be assuming the following : You will fly to India You will buy a new motorbike You will drive all the way back from Madras to London ( Why Madras ? Because why not ? ) You will drive on the best possible roads , to minimise wear-and-tear ( ha ! ) You will be able to pass all the custom checks in all the countries you will travel through You will be able to import the bike in the UK ( at a cost , of course ) Data Crunching Let 's put some data down . According to <URL> the cost of a new Royal Enfield in India oscillates between 100,000 - 200,000 ( 1074.7 - 2149.4 ) using google and today 's rates - March 2015 ) depending on the model . Let 's pick an average 150,000 ( 1612.05 & sim ; 1600 ) . Now let 's look at the average selling price for Royal Enfield bikes in the UK , via ebay . A <URL> yields selling prices ranging 1200 - 3000 for used , non-collectors , models ( those 99 ads you see are just the deposit for a new bike , whose real cost is something around 4999 ) . The air distance between Madras and London is 8218.75 km , to get a road distance estimate I would say multiply that by 3 , which gives 24656.25 km rounded up to 25,000 km . ( Funny side note , <URL> . ) It is safe to assume that your Royal Enfield will be quite beat after this 25,000 km journey , and thus you wo n't be able to sell it with just slight wear-and-tear , let alone brand new . An ( overly ) optimistic estimate could be selling it for less than half the price of a new one . I.e. something in the range of 2000 . You will have to at least clean it up and polish it , if you do n't consider changing oil , filter , gasket , transmission , etc. . Consider an average petrol price of 1,20 per litre ( this might be an overstimate ) , and an <URL> , you would be looking at a total estimated fuel cost of 25,000 / 27.5 * 1.2 = 1090.91 ( & sim ; 1100 ) . You 're Losing Money Given the following data one can easily see that , by factoring in our estimates -- buying price , wear , selling price and petrol costs -- you are left with a loss of ( + 2000 - 1600 - 1100 ) = -700 . This calculation is of course missing fundamental items such as food , accommodation , paperwork ( and costs ) at each border crossing , unforeseeable roadside maintenance operations , just to name a few . With this in mind , your loss could in fact be order of magnitudes higher -- something along the lines of a few thousand pounds . Royal Enfield Says No to Personal Imports ! According to the <URL> , vehicles sold in India will not pass the UK MOT , so all our conjectures might in fact be <URL> : The following points outline some of the factors that need to be considered in order to evaluate what is involved when you carry out a private import . The scenario is as per the current terms and conditions prevailing , but you should be aware that legislation is constantly changing in these countries to prevent such imports . Indian motorcycle models are different from EEC/UK/USA models and will not pass a Ministry of Transport ( MOT ) test . Models meant for other countries are not sold in India . The Indian model motorcycles can not be registered in any other country other than India or SAARC nations as they do not meet the statutory norms prevailing there . All UK/EEC specification motorcycles comply with Whole Vehicle Type Approval ( WVTA ) and have VIN plates . From June 2003 , all models of bike , not previously imported into the UK/EEC , must have a WVTA with the consequent VIN plate and Certificate of Conformity from Royal Enfield . All USA specification motorcycles comply with FMVSS rules and regulations and have a VIN plate . Each individual state in the USA also has registration rules that parallel the Federal rules so even if a bike somehow gets past US Customs the owner will most likely be unable to register the motorcycle . A motorcycle that does not comply with the UK or EEC or USA rules may not have valid insurance , thus leaving the owner liable to an insurance company refusing to pay out on any claim , including third party liability . Royal Enfield will not be liable for registration , compliance certificates or any documents whatsoever , which may be required for the private import of our bikes and it will be purely at the risk of the buyer . Of course they might just be saying this because they want you to buy from their ( more expensive ) local dealers . Or maybe they actually know what they are talking about . Or maybe even a bit of both . Up to you to judge .
Yes you can . Starting from May 8 , 2013 every EU citizen can enter to Kosovo with ID card only , as mentioned on the <URL> ( at the bottom of the page )
As a UK Gov directive it is still applicable . <URL> states A person who intends to remain in the United Kingdom for more than 6 months should normally be referred to the Medical Inspector for examination . If he produces a medical certificate he should be advised to hand it to the Medical Inspector . Any person seeking entry who mentions health or medical treatment as a reason for his visit , or who appears not to be in good mental or physical health , should also be referred to the Medical Inspector ; and the Immigration Officer has discretion , which should be exercised sparingly , to refer for examination in any other case This <URL> ( Last updated 10 March 2010 ) states Advise the applicant to carry the original TB certificate ( and their chest X-ray ) in their hand luggage for presentation to an immigration officer on arrival in the UK to prevent delays or referral to the Port Medical Inspector ( PMI ) . Whether it is followed in practice at LHR , I 'm not sure . I did travel to UK on a Work Permit between 2002 to 2006 and was not once asked to present the X-Ray even after clarifying my long term stay .
It should be okay for you to apply for ESTA , because the visa you hold is not a B-1 or B-2 visa . If you were to travel to the United States for purposes of tourism , or business purposes unrelated to the visa you now hold , you would in fact be required to apply for ESTA or for a B visa . ( I 'm not sure , however , what will happen if you can check in using your ESTA , and subsequently enter using the visa . ) For example , at <URL> , you can see that for an E-2 visa " you must be coming to the United States to develop and direct the enterprise . " See also at <URL> : Q : What if a traveler has a current , valid visa ? A : Individuals who possess a valid visa will still be able to travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose for which it was issued . Individuals traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA authorization . This implies that you can apply for ESTA to travel to the United States for a purpose other than one for which your valid visa was issued . You also express concern about whether you might have trouble when entering the United States , since you will have been indicated on the carrier 's passenger list as a VWP traveler , but you will be presenting a visa at entry . I doubt that you will have trouble because of it . I can think of two reasons you might : Applying for ESTA with no intention of using the VWP Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations , section 217.5 ( a ) says Each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel by air or sea to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) must , within the time specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , receive a travel authorization ... You might therefore run into trouble because you do n't actually intend to travel to the US under the VWP . But it does n't actually say that those who do n't intend to travel can not receive the authorization . Furthermore , CBP notes that people can apply for ESTA <URL> . Checking in with ESTA and entering with a visa Here , I can only speculate , but I guess that the carrier is more likely to get in trouble for this than you are . You could approach the ground staff at the airport to correct your record with information about your visa , but this would defeat your apparent purpose of getting on the plane quickly and easily .
The restrictions made by the Congress on those possessing Iranian nationality are only to the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . Canada is not a participant in the Visa Waiver Program . Canadians entering the US on Canadian passports do not do so under the VWP . I do not believe your parents will be affected by these changes . <URL>
From the airline 's point of view , each of your bookings is a separate entity and in this scenario only one of you has been upgraded . Likewise from the airline 's point of view only the upgraded passenger has permission to be in the business class cabin . So technically the answer is NO . But there is no harm in asking if you can swap seats partway through the flight . Cabin attendants have some leeway to allow such a swap .
I 've had a look at a few US based RV hire websites , and they all seem to say the same thing . That is , for normal sized RVs you need to be over 21 , you need to have held your license for over a year , and for Europeans you need an International Driving Permit if your license is n't in English ( which I guess your Belgian one wo n't be ) . Very large RVs , and those with air brakes seem to be different though . I did see a few discussions suggesting that you may wish to take your C1 course ( the license class needed to drive large RVs in Europe ) . The main reason for that is to ensure you 're happy and safe driving a large vehicle . It 'll also have the bonus that if you like RVing , you can continue doing it when you get home ! One slight wrinkle is that licensing in the US is handled state by state , and in Canada province by province too . The best advice seems to be to ring up the hire car company you 're planning to use , and ask them . It 's not impossible that their insurance will have stricter requirements than the legal minimum , so that may be the limiting factor anyway . Most of the big companies should be used to visiting Europeans , so ask them and see !
The TSA has a page on " <URL> " for passing through a security checkpoint . The most important part on this page for you is : Not having an ID , does not necessarily mean a passenger wo n't be allowed to fly . If passengers are willing to provide additional information , we have other means of substantiating someone 's identity , like using publicly available databases . Whilst it 's likely that a University photo ID would not be sufficient ( unless it was issued in a way to meet " REAL ID " requirements ) , your US Visa , especially when combined with an expired passport , would certainly be sufficient to prove your identity . If required , they could even carry out additional checks such as fingerprints to confirm your identity ( as these would have been taken when your visa was issued ) , although realistically I can not see this happening . I would plan to arrive at the airport a little earlier than required in case the additional checks take extra time , but I would not expect you to have any problems getting through . Personally I 've also been able to go through TSA checkpoints on two occasions using an Australian drivers license . I did n't intend to , but grabbed the wrong license from my wallet - and both times they commented on it and then let me through without any further checks . I certainly would n't rely on that working ( especially if your home-country license does n't include security features like holograms/etc ) , but it 's worked for me ...
" Leave to enter " is short for " Leave to enter the United Kingdom " . It is defined in <URL> ... <URL> Six months was initially selected as the maximum amount of leave that can be given to a non-visa national because that interval ties in to lots of other legislation rooted in English common law where the interval of six months plays an important part . In the <URL> , the usage of six months is explicit per <URL> ... A visitor is a person who is coming to the UK , usually for up to six months , for a temporary purpose , for example as a tourist , to visit friends or family or to carry out a business activity . How is the six months counted ? Is it a number of days or is it six calendar months regardless of the number of days in each month ? Days have nothing to do with it . Sometimes six months can be 181 days or more and other times it can be 179 days or less . You add six months to the date on your leave to enter and that 's your expiry date . The counting method for corner cases where the person arrives on the 31st of the month is the final day of the 6th month . Examples : People granted leave to enter on 31 Aug 2015 should be gone by midnight 29 Feb 2016 . But consider that people granted leave to enter on 28 Feb 2015 should be gone by midnight 28 August 2015 . However , it is not carved in stone . People have tried taking some of these corner cases to court and have achieved mixed results depending upon what they were trying to accomplish . I have also seen a case where a silver-tongued individual was able to out whittle an official on a corner case and avoid an overstay penalty . Any ambiguities are built into the law from a long , long time back and they are not likely to become more precise in the current era because ' six months ' has a lot to do with a lot of things in the legislative framework . If you think you are in a corner case , it is best to query the IO on arrival what your expiry is . Related : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL>
It 's perfectly normal to stay in several Schengen countries and arrive/depart from different countries , the Schengen area has been created to make things like that easier . You do n't need to worry about the plane tickets per se but you do need to present a coherent itinerary . Explain why you want to go to both countries , what you will do there ( with evidence like invitation , bookings , etc. as applicable ) and <URL> .
When exactly does your OPT expire - at Christmas as you 've stated , or 60 days beforehand ? Presuming it expires at Christmas , then you are legally able to stay in the US for 60 days after expiry . You are NOT allowed to work during that period , but you can legally stay in the country for other purposes , so if you 're planning to be a tourist for less than 60 days , AND you do not plan to leave the US during that time , then you 're good ! Once you leave the US after the expiry of your OPT , then you are NOT allowed to re-enter using the OPT - even if it is still within the 60 day grace period . However , as a Canadian Citizen you are allowed to re-enter the US as a tourist . Technically there is no reason that you could not do the immediately ( " same day " ) , however as with all entries it is at the discretion of the immigration officials to determine if they believe you are entering for the purposes you 're stating or not . If they believe that you are re-entering the US for the purposes of working , then they can deny your entry . How likely this is to occur will depend on your exact situation - if it were me I would have as much paperwork as possible available to show that you are a tourist rather than returning to work .
If you are talking about the paper card that you filled out when you landed , then no . There is no need to return this . You can throw it away . There will be no issue on the next trip to Hong Kong .
As long as you have a UK visa I do n't see why your expiring residence permit should matter . Make sure you enter the UK with the UK visa and not with the residence card .
Per the <URL> , a " general visitor " ( with or without visa , depending on citizenship ) should not " live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or successive visits " . So if you already made several long stays and try to come back for several months , there might be a ( small ? ) risk that the border force officer checking your passport would suspect you are lying about the purpose of your stay in the UK and are actually living there illegally . I also remember reading about a limit of not more than six months in any twelve months but I do n't know if it 's a hard limit or just a rule of thumb and I ca n't find any official source for that . If that 's the case , traveling around March should be no problem , traveling in May would be more difficult ( if I understand your description correctly , at that point , you will have spent 8 months of the previous year in the UK ) . I am not a lawyer but I assume that formally , as in most countries , neither a proper visa ( if your situation made one necessary ) nor a previous visit would entitle you to enter the UK . Border officers will typically evaluate whether your fulfill the requirements for entry every time you cross the border , which means that every time you leave the country , you expose yourself to the risk of being refused entry , however small . In any case , if you are questioned at the border , anything you might provide to establish that you are a legitimate visitor ( details and documentation of where you stayed and will be staying , details of people you want to visit or things you want to do , name of places you intend to see , funds to support yourself , a return ticket to your country of residence , etc. ) might be helpful .
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
When I crossed the border Canada - > US ( on a European passport ) earlier this year by car they did not ask for any return tickets . Just what I do for a living , how long I plan to stay in the US , how I plan get out and how much money I had on me and available in my bank account . Been there before for 2 weeks and in transit a couple of times ; so maybe they took my previous records into account ... The first time however was a completely different story ; had to attend a conference , but did not book a hotel before and the guy in customs would n't let me pass until I had an hotel address for my arrival card . Was stuck there for ~ 1h , in the end I just wrote down a random hotel address from the yellow pages . So my advice would be to have some sort of reservation for a hotel/hostel where you stay for at least one night , and the greyhound tickets just in case , because you MUST write some address down on your arrival card , otherwise thou shall not pass ...
end question
start question
Where in Mumbai Airport can I store luggage for a few hours ?
Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport has a Baggage Storage Facility known as the Left luggage , which accepts bags for safe keeping up to 90 days . Charge : As per the <URL> , the minimum charge for safe keeping a standard size bag is 150 INR per bag and it is 180 INR for a larger bag for up to 6 hours . The charge increases with time . A <URL> on sleepinginairports.net website states that there is a hourly price too . However there is no mention of it in the official website . Location : The storage facility is located at Domestic Terminal 1B - Arrival Hall Exit Ramp International Terminal - Near Integrated Exit of Terminal 1B &amp; 1C Queue : I could not find any info on queue at Left luggage but the Queue timings of Bombay airport are generally high than other airports as you can see in the customer <URL> . So expect and be prepared for a long queue . You can fine more information at the <URL> .
<URL> do offer what you 're looking for . It 's also possible to bathe in a large champagne glass : <URL>
Disclaimer : This isnt specifically in Kyoto . It 's about 1h by train/car from Kyoto Station . The <URL> could be what you 're looking for . It 's located in Kobe , near Osaka . The museum features LOTS of information and displays on how woodworking and carpentry evolved from prehistoric Japan all the way to modern days . The building is gorgeous and there are plenty of examples of the different techniques demonstrated . You can also borrow a very thorough audio guide that completes the visit very nicely ( Which I highly recommend you do ) . A bonus point is that , while in Kobe , you can eat some amazing Kobe Beef !
Broadly speaking , tea plantation tourism is not a thing in Japan , for multiple reasons : the picking season is short ( as little as ten days , although Kagoshima squeezes in 4-5 harvests per year ) , they do n't want tourists in the way of the giant lumbering machines that do the bulk of the harvesting , and traditionally the places that process , roast , package and sell tea are separate from those that actually grow it . But ! After way too much searching , I found one group in Kagoshima that organizes tea tours : <URL> ( 茶寿会 ) , who in season run " green tourism " tours every couple of days that tour a live tea plantation and sample some fresh produce , for a token & yen ; 200 per head . Two major catches : you need a group of at least 15 people , and you will likely need a Japanese speaker to book and accompany you . If this sounds like too much hassle , you can pay a visit to <URL> ( 大野岳 ) , from whose viewing platform at the 466m summit you get a panoramic view of all the tea fields around you .
Playa del Carmen has a great location - about mid-way between Cancun and Tulum - both big tourist destination . Though , it can hold it 's own ... We were there for a wedding recently , and ca n't wait to go back . Here 's a list of things we enjoyed and highly recommend - The Beach at Playa Del Carmen - one of the best , and not as crowded or commercial as those in Cancun and Tulum . Tulum - The beach , the ruins ( if you are into the Mayan/Aztec culture ) , The Mezzanine restaurant has THE most spectacular views you will ever see . The Coba ruins - not sure I 'd go there again - a long drive , and Tulum and Chichen have more historic sites Chichen Itza ruins - An even longer drive , but worth it , if it 's the only site you will see . Diving into one of the many Cenotes , if you enjoy snorkeling If you have young travelers , they 'll love the " dolphin adventures " With regards to safety , a lot has been made out about the drug wars . We found it extremely safe , with no issues . Just exercise common sense - do n't venture out needlessly after hours . Eat hot food from established restaurants . If you plan on shopping at the city , make sure you are well aware of the exchange rate . We bought some art pieces , which we negotiated in US$ , only to be charged in Pesos . Needless to say , on coming back we realized the exchange rate was ridiculous .
There are two potential issues here : Airport security and customs . For airport security : <URL> , " Liquids include liquid or semi-liquid foods , eg soup , jam , honey and syrups " and " Liquids in containers larger than 100ml generally ca n't go through security even if the container is only part full . " Exemptions ( e.g. essential medical purposes ) do n't seem likely to apply here . Watermelon is less <URL> than <URL> , so an agent might use that to classify it more toward the " liquid/container " side than the " solid " side of honey , and honey ( > 100 mL ) is not allowed . It is also less viscous than some honey . Edit to clarify : criteria used in practice for classification is a different question than that of what more scientifically-based criteria agents perhaps should use . In the US , the TSA lists it as <URL> . Although this is the result for the explicit query " watermelon , " the response does have a disclaimer that " Liquid or gel food items larger than 3.4 oz are not permitted in carry-on baggage " so if an agent decides that a watermelon is a non-empty container capable of holding 3.4 oz of liquid or gel , they might use their wide discretion to tell you it 's not allowed . For customs : Although generally speaking when entering <URL> , " <URL> , " other readers traveling to other countries should consider whether or not they 're allowed to transport fruits and seeds across national borders . Rules are much less restrictive for travel within the EU .
There is not a lot to find about permits , but <URL> In the extended text you can find the text : Govind Wildlife Sanctuary Information Center Wildlife Warden Govind Pashu Vihar Sanctuary , <URL> , <URL> . and Divisional Forest Officer , Tons Forest Division . Purola , Uttarkashi . In this <URL> , they do mention that permits are included into what you pay for . That confirms that you need to have a permit . From how hard it is to find any information I would suggest looking into doing the track with a company . <URL> As I have never been in the area , an internet search is the best I can do for you . I did find that Sankri did not bring in many results , searches on Har-Ki-Doon and its alternate spelling Har Ki Dun gave more help . But searching on either separately might be best .
To use the lockers in a train station is a good idea , however if your flight is in Schönefeld you should use the lockers at Südkreuz station . As in all stations the cost is 4 Euros for a small locker , 6 Euros for a large locker ( per 24 hours ) . ( Btw . if this is a stopover and you also arrive at SFX , then <URL> , so the simplest option would be to leave your luggage there . ) The lockers as Südkreuz are located at the exit Hildegard-Knef-Platz . They are inside the building , and the police station inside the station is just around the corner , so your luggage should be pretty safe ( take care not to leave any luggage unattended in the open or it will be removed and destroyed ) . Südkreuz is also a good option because it is a traffic hub . It 's probably worth buying a " Tageskarte Berlin ABC " ( day ticket for all fare zones ) at 7.5 Euro ( valid until 3.00 am of the next day ) . From Südkreuz you can either use the S42 train ( going to Ostkreuz ) . This will take you to the districts of Kreuzberg , Friedrichshain and Prenzlauer Berg ( more or less the " party districts " of Berlin ) . The S42 is part of the " Ring " , the line that goes in circles around the inner city ( if you imagine a clock face with the most northern station ( Gesundbrunnen ) at 12 o'clock the S42 goes counter-clockwise and the S41 train goes clockwise . A full circle takes more than an hour and the view is not worth it , so try to catch the right direction ) . However the " Ring " touches Kreuzberg ( probably the most famous of Berlins districts ) only at the periphery , if you want to go there you might want to get off the S42 at Hermannstrasse and proceed with the tube U8 to Kottbusser Tor , right in the middle of Kreuzberg . At Südkeuz you can also take the S2 train going to Friedrichstrasse . If you want to see a few sights you get get off at Potsdamer Platz . Potsdamer Platz itself is more family-oriented entertainment - shopping malls , restaurants , cinemas , the film museum , waxworks and Lego land . But you can proceed by foot along the " Kulturforum " ( if you interested in architekture ; the " Philharmonie " , the most famous Berlin concert hall , is an interesting albeit not beautiful sight ) , stroll by the holocaust memorial until you arrive at the parliament building ( the former Reichstag ) . From there you can stroll down the avenue Unter den Linden to Friedrichstrasse and return with the S2 to Südkreuz . Südkreuz station is located in the Schöneberg district , so you could also explore that . The area around the station is only just being developed , there is not much to see yet . You 'd have to take the 204 bus to Kaiser-Wilhelm-Platz ( the day ticket is good for busses , too ) . For a selection of bars and cafes you can enter Crellestrasse just right the corner of Kaiser Wilhelm-Platz , or ask for Akazienstrasse ( Akazienstrasse and the streets that branch off have a lot of bars , restaurants , clubs etc ) . SChöneberg has also a vivid gay scene , if you specifically interested in / specifically want to avoid this you might want to go to / avoid Bülowstrasse and surroundings . From Südkreuz station the S45 will bring you to Schönefeld Airport ( goes every 30 minutes ) . However the last direct connection is about at 22.45 , which is probably to early for you - there are a few other options ( S42 to Treptower Park , then change to S9 to Schönefeld ) , but past midnight you will probably have to go by bus . S45 resumes operations at about 4.45 am . Since you were talking about skipping the night at a hotel , it would be one convenient solution for you to look for a room in Schöneberg ( not much hotels , but a lot of B&amp;B s and the like ) near Südkreuz and explore the city from there .
<URL> If you select Terminal 2 International and click on each one of the shops listed , you 'll see that a few of them are found before security . These are : Jaya He Museum Store Jaya He Museum Store offers exquisite art , craft and design based collectibles made by renowned and upcoming artists of India . Pick exquisite art and craft forms in contemporary styles inspired by the Jaya He GVK New Museum at T2 . The Museum store also feature an exhibition outlet selling real time works of celebrated artists in the original form as well as product adaptations . Location : Departures , Level 4 Kama Ayurveda Browse through Kama Ayurveda 's treatment based and Internationally acclaimed holistic solutions for the skin , hair and body made with pure , natural and organic ingredients . Location : Terminal 2 , Level 3 , South-west pier , International Departures Xpress Xpress is a one-stop airport shop for a wide assortment of books &amp; magazines , choicest Indian snacks , beverages , gift items , toys and daily essentials . Stopover to pick up a few essentials before you board . Location : Level 4 , International Departures , Before Security Check Level 2 , International to Domestic Transfer Area Level 3 , International Departures , After Security Check , South West Pier I 'm not sure what means , but there might even be a pharmacy available at Terminal 2 : Apollo Pharmacy Forgot first aid for the long trip ? Headache ? Tummy trouble ? Head to the Apollo Pharmacy for all your medical needs . Location : Departures - Opposite Security Check Area - 1 I 'll let you search for available shops in the remaining terminals .
Less than a mile away is <URL> . Open till 10pm and $ 5 ( according to the link ) you should have time to collect again before they close at 10pm , since your function is scheduled to end at 8pm . However in view of the exceptional circumstances I suggest you give them a call first . If not , and not arriving by train so unable to use Amtrak 's Baggage Room , maybe drop your bag off at your hotel before checking-in . That may waste about an hour but alternatives may add delay anyway . Another possibility is to ask the dinner 's organisers -- not allowed into the dining area does not preclude some cloak-room facilities before that area .
It 's not that extreme . For mountains and forests : a ) Do n't block the road , not even partially . If that means you ca n't park , do n't . And do n't park in turns etc. where the car ca n't be seen by other drivers before reaching it . ( Remember buses , on roads where you would never expect them ) . b ) If it is eg . a road to a ski lift in winter , or touristy for some other reason , and you 're near a parking area , better use it . Otherwise , you should be fine . On most mountain roads etc. , outside of villages , you wo n't find marked parking space at all . However , I 'm not sure what you mean with " days " . If you plan to leave your car to sleep in the woods with a sleeping bag , someone could see your car on the roadside several times with some hours between = > worrying what happened to the owner = > car removed and police searching for you . In such situations , find a proper place to leave it . For small villages : If they 're small enough to not have marked parking space , you ca n't use it ...
As of now , there 's no cash back service in the UAE . There are talks about this every now and then in the GCC region , but so far it 's not implemented .
I <URL> . Ja , die Schließfächer im Münchener Hbf sind rund um die Uhr zugänglich That says the lockers in Munich HBF are accessible 24 hours a day .
Exactly what Mark Mayo said , just check Google next time or go to Delhi 's main bazaar and ask in any of the music instrument shops , most of them offer sitar lessons and they all provide sitars for it . Here is a one that was recommended by a fellow traveler when I mentioned this question over dinner : Dhingra Musicals Rajat is giving the lessons in a room just above his shop and it is located at Main Bazaar in Paharganj , shop No. 1086 e-mail : dhingra.sons@yahoo.co.in Cell : 9911043900 or 9818536666 One lesson is 700 Rp and if you want to take 10 , it will be 3750 Rp but you can , of course , <URL> . You can buy a small sitar for 2600 Rp and a big one for around 6500 Rp .
Getting back to my own question . I was successfully able to take the 23kg luggage on the domestic flight as well . I had to collect my baggage at mumbai for custom related checks and again had to checkin at Jet Airways counter , but there was no problems at all and without any additional costs .
I hereby present ... The Exhaustingly Exhaustive Dubai Airport Shower Guide All prices and info accurate as of June 2014 . Marhaba lounge The <URL> in T3 Concourse A ( between gates A2/A3 ) has rather nice showers , easily on a par with a four-star hotel . A shower alone without lounge access costs Dhs 55 ( ~ US$ 15 ) , including towel and cosmetics kit ( shampoo , body soap , toothbrush , shaving kit , etc ) . Just beware that in the muggy Dubai summer , even " cold " water is lukewarm , and ventilation is kind of minimal so it gets pretty sauna-like pretty fast if you shower too long . Opening the cubicle door provides rapid relief though . Overall score , 8/10 . Full lounge access is Dhs 190 ( ~ US$ 50 ) , which gets you a buffet , internet access , and a buggy transfer to your gate as well . Bonus : Lounge access is <URL> with a " Titanium , Platinum or World " MasterCard if ( per the <URL> ) issued in the Middle East &amp; Africa , although enforcement appears to be a bit loose . Dubai International Hotel You can take a shower at any of the many <URL> outlets , including the one in Concourse A , for US$ 15 . Not tested yet . G-Force Health Club Access to the G Force Health Club gym ( including showers ) , at T3 Concourse B only , elevator to level 5 right opposite the elevators to the Gate A trains , can be purchased for Dhs 70 ( ~ US$ 19 ) for 1.5 hours . The gym is basic but does the job : treadmill , stationary bike , multipurpose machine , dumbbells . The shower , on the other hand , is rather nice , the amenity pack includes everything down to Q-tips and you even get a bathrobe . Plus water is cooler and it does n't steam up as badly as Marhaba 's version . Overall score , 10/10 ! Public showers There are clearly signposted free public showers in Coucourse A , near gate A1 right opposite the Le Clos wine shop . These look clean but no-frills , you 'll need to bring your own towel and toiletries , and there was a ( short ) queue when I came to take a look . <URL> Concourse B has a similar setup at gate B13 , and there are a few signs pointing the way .
If you do a search with the terms sushi com chocolate ( sushi with chocolate ) you will find plenty of recepies . Nevertheless , it 's certainly not a trend , I have ate sweet sushi before but I had never heard of norimaki with chocolate before . It 's really common to find sweet temakis ( " sweet kones " ) for dessert , I would n't be surprised to find one with chocolate , but they certainly do n't have fish on them :) They are not temaki in my opinion , as they are normally not rolled in nori . It depends on where you are , but I 'd search for temaki doce ( sweet temaki ) , along with the name of the city where you are to find places to eat .
Porter is currently an unfashionable beer style , as far as the mainstream goes , so in the larger ' chain ' pubs you 'd be unlikely to find one . However , that 's not to say there 's none to be found ! Your first step is to find the right kind of pub , for which there are many resources available ; the best physical one I would say would be CAMRA 's Good Beer Guide ( bookshops everywhere ) . Online your search terms would be ' real ale ' , ' craft beer ' , and of course ' london pub ' . Here are some specific resources which should help : <URL> - general pub reviews <URL> - pub reviews with an ale-drinking preference <URL> - but without the commentary that the book itself provides . Finally , you could always cheat and look in <URL> - not as good as the real thing , but consistently a decent pint . Finally finally , if you 're in East London I would personally urge you to try something by the <URL> - they do n't currently do a straight porter , but their mild is worth a special trip , to my mind .
Earthquakes are notoriously hard to predict , for the US they are working on this an <URL> which <URL> the recent earthquake . Giving about ten seconds warning . Which I think may be less than you were looking for ... In general if you 're in an earthquake zone there 's always a ( remote ) chance of a sudden quake . There are minor earthquakes all the time , a sequence of minor earthquakes does not make the ' big one ' more likely . Arguably , smaller quakes relieve pressure and could make big quakes less common , but they could also move things in such a way that it does cause a bigger quake . People have been studying this for years and the best we 've got is ten seconds warning ... There are a few things you can do -- first find out if you 're in an earthquake zone , check the local government for wherever you are or here 's a <URL> of them . Second , know <URL> . Finally know that earthquakes are pretty scary and can be dangerous depending what you 're doing ( i.e. driving over a bridge ) but places that are in earthquake zones are designed to handle even relatively big quakes . Quakes on the scale of the Japanese one a few years ago are incredibly rare and honestly not really worth worrying about ( if it happens , it happens ) . You can track recent earthquakes on <URL> and , yes , there are apps for that -- here 's the <URL> . One thing you can watch for is earthquake caused tsunamis , ( or any tsunamis ) . These are ( mostly ) predictable , often more dangerous than the earthquake , and getting a warning will give you time to take action . Here 's the <URL> and there are apps for that as well but I 've no experience of them so I do n't want to recommend one at random . There is a page at <URL> that looks like it covers a lot of the above . I will say once again , earthquakes and other geological events are very hard to predict . Warnings often err on the side of caution , while some events still take everyone completely by surprise . It 's one of those things you should know how to handle if it happens , and then try and not worry about it to much . I say this as someone that lives less than half a kilometer away from a major fault-line . Quick Edit : The question was changed after I answered to be California specific , I 'm not going to trim the answer just to that since I think it 's generic enough to be applicable . The links I gave are still useful but for specific stuff consider the <URL> and the Southern California Earthquake Center ( <URL> ) . Edit 2 ( three months later ) : I just wanted to edit this to add a link to a upcoming tool called <URL> . It looks to have grown out of ShakeAlert which is linked in the other answer and offers personal and industrial early earthquake warning solutions ( it 's not clear from the site how much warning they can give ) .
I think the answer is the same than for your other question . As WiFi stations are not listed in the <URL> you should be able of carrying one in your hand luggage . The only restriction that you should find is that it might be turned off for the entire flight .
end question
start question
Wheeled backpack with waist strap ?
Eagle Creek makes quite a few wheeled backpacks , that come with a suspension type strap and waistband set up . One model you can remove the harness system to reduce the backpack 's weight if you are traveling somewhere that you wo n't need the straps . And contrary to backpacker purists beliefs , are comfortable to carry as a backpack . They are not form fitting as a high end trekking pack , so not really for long hikes in the mountains , but great for cruising through towns , hopping on and off buses , trains , etc. . <URL>
For the life of me I could not come up with a single itinerary that will fly Miami to JFK then LaGuardia to Zurich . So if this is the case there are 2 different itineraries in play then you will need to collect your luggage and re-check it at the next airport to your final destination , which has been discussed in many forms on this site already : <URL> <URL> <URL> So if you need to transfer from airport to airport you will have to collect your luggage . Carry it to the Taxi $ 35 - $ 50 + tip and at least an hour of your time then checking it for your next connection and so on . Personally while $ 70 is not chump change is it really worth about 2 hours of your time ? ADDITIONAL INFO Just found a way to create a connection with an airport transfer . There is also a rule listed in <URL> which states : Baggage will not be checked beyond a point at which the passenger is to transfer to a connecting flight , if that flight is scheduled to depart from an airport different from the one at which the passenger is scheduled to arrive . So you will definitely have to pick it up . Hump it to a taxi then check it back in at the other airport and continue . Personally I prefer convenience .
It appears that the requirements to import a cat to the U.S. may not be too onerous . The guidelines I have found for importing cats to the United States seem to indicate that they must simply be healthy ; it appears there may be surprisingly little paperwork involved . I just called the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) 's <URL> ( APHIS ) on the phone to ask about importing a cat from Ukraine . They confirmed that there should " not be too much worry " about importing a healthy cat , but referred me to the Center for Disease Control ( CDC ) , which has jurisdiction over animal importation to the U.S. , and to the California Department of Food and Agriculture ( CDFA ) . The CDC contact information is : And the phone number for California Department of Food and Agriculture is +1 (916)654-1447 . The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention <URL> says : A general certificate of health is not required by CDC for entry of pet cats into the United States , although some airlines or states may require them . However , pet cats are subject to inspection at ports of entry and may be denied entry into the United States if they have evidence of an infectious disease that can be transmitted to humans . If a cat appears to be ill , further examination by a licensed veterinarian at the owner 's expense might be required at the port of entry . Cats are not required to have proof of rabies vaccination for importation into the United States . However , some states require vaccination of cats for rabies , so it is a good idea to check with state and local health authorities at your final destination . All pet cats arriving in the state of Hawaii and the territory of Guam , even from the U.S. mainland , are subject to locally imposed quarantine requirements . The U.S. Customs and Border Protection department has some scary words : Pets excluded from entry into the United States must either be exported or destroyed . While awaiting disposition , pets will be detained at the owner 's expense at the port of arrival . USDA does not inspect or detain pets at U.S. ports of entry . However , they also seem to indicate that the requirements are not too complicated beyond simply having a healthy cat : The U.S. Public Health Service requires that pet dogs and cats brought into this country be examined at the first port of entry for evidence of diseases that can be transmitted to humans . The State of California <URL> says simply : All domestic cats must be healthy . A Certificate of Veterinary Inspection ( CVI ) , also known as a health certificate , is recommended . You should also check the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) 's " <URL> " web site . Be sure to call your airline ( s ) to ask about the airline 's requirements for transporting your cat . You will probably have to reserve a spot for the animal on the airplane ( even if it is traveling with you as " carry on " ) and pay a fee . If your itinerary includes flights operated by multiple different airlines , you will have to contact each of them individually , and probably pay a fee to each of them too . Also be sure to check the requirements of any intermediate stops in your itinerary . For example , it may not be possible to bring your pet through Ireland or the UK ( or other islands ) . Obtaining an English-language health certificate with a stamp and signature from a vet might be helpful .
Use a rain cover . They are basically nylon or alike fabric sheets , with a bit of sewing on the corners and have elastic sewn on the outer edge , which will tighten it around your pack . Covers are available in a wide range of sizes and it does not matter if the fit is not really close , as long as the bag is covered and the elastic can reach the back . It does not waterproof a bag , but it is certainly enough to improve the bags own properties to keep splash water out . ( If you can not find a photo , make one ... , when you google - rain cover backpack - you will see plenty of them , but not within the rules for the site . ) Photos of the rain cover on my bike bag , backpack and cover out of easy reach , but the covers work the same . <URL> Raincover with and over the bike bag . Photos by Willeke , can be used under creative commons rules .
This mean that at LAX ; perhaps due to customs or other security restrictions - the airline can not accept baggage to be delivered directly to/from passengers ( at the gate ) and it has to go through customs/clearance . So you 'll have to check it in and surrender the stroller at the check-in ; and if arriving at LAX receive it at customs . I would highly recommend getting it wrapped with plastic as ( from personal experience ) strollers have many extremities that can easily be popped off/removed/broken during the rigours of flight . I have seen this happen before ( not at LAX and not with Aeroflot ) . Normally if a flight is full the gate agent will ask passengers to volunteer to have their carryons put in the cargo hold ( as there may not be enough room in the cabin ) . Some people also volunteer their bags for this service just to avoid having to lug them around . I was such a person - I had two bags and only needed one during the flight and I approached the staff at the counter ; here is what I was told : " Sorry sir , we are not authorized to accept baggage airside ; you can ask the cabin crew to store your luggage in a different bin away from your seat . " Sometimes , this may be due to the unique way airports are operated - the ground handling staff for this flight may not be allowed to offload at airside ( or be allowed on the jetway ) or ... any number of reasons . You can ask Aeroflot for the reason but other than to satisfy your curiousity ; but if you want to have a temporary stroller in the terminal , it might be better to ask at LAX if there is such a service .
Those backpacks are very comfortable and they help to reduce the back sweating we all have experienced during long trips . I think the choice depends greatly on the type of trip you are planning to take . If you are leaving for a , let 's say , three day trek where you do n't need much stuff with you , and you will likely have the backpack with you at all times , then that is the perfect choice for minimizing fatigue . If , instead , you are leaving for a month trip in , eg , middle east where you need much more space and you wo n't likely have the backpack with you all day ( because you can leave it in hostels , train etc ) I would go for a normal and lighter one ( not to mention that usual backpack are less likely to be stolen than a fancier one )
Visas for many many years were placed in your passport using a rubber stamp , same as most entry and exit stamps are done today . And there are still countries that use rubber stamps for visas today . Hence the slang for getting visas evolved to being " stamped " and the visa itself was termed a " visa stamp " . While modern visas have evolved to stickers with high security features , the old slang remains in common usage all around the world . Perhaps with time as all us old fogies , who remember visas being stamped in our passports , pass on to that great bike tour in the sky , travelers will start using " stickered " for getting their visas or maybe " stored " as epassports evolve
One option ( that may not suit you exactly , but will be useful for other searchers of a question like this ) is <URL> . <URL> described it as the solution to the problem " Have you ever met that special someone on a plane but for whatever reason you did n't end up exchanging your contact details with each other and later regretted it ? Without their name , how are you going to find them on Facebook ? "
Code sharing and alliances are two different animals . Code Sharing is when airline A blocks seats on airline B 's route from city XYZ to city DEF . Then sells those seats with airline A 's flight number . Airline A may only contract for one code share route with airline B or it may contract for 50 routes . Airlines can code share with whomever they wish , irregardless of alliances . And they choose the routes they feel match their marketing goals and customer 's needs . Alliances revolve more around joint marketing of all members , plus convenice of connecting travelers with fellow alliance members . And while alliance members frequently code share with each other , the majority of flights are exclusive to the operating carrier .
45x38x11 cm is above the size that Ryanair say they will definitely allow in the cabin ( 35x20x20 cm ) but below the maximum size of hand luggage ( 55x40x20 cm ) so if it 's your only piece of hand luggage you might be allowed to take it on , and if not it will be carried in the hold for free . In my experience , when they insist that passengers gate check their luggage they are mainly looking for the big wheely suitcases which just fit in the cage at all . The main limitation is on overhead locker space , so if your bag looks like it will fit under the seat in front of you then you 're probably OK .
The pertinent information is <URL> , in Dutch . Bicycles are only allowed in the metro ( subway ) and in tram line 26 , not in other tram lines or bus lines . GVB also does n't have any trains , if you want to take the bicycle on a train , you 'll need different tickets entirely ( both for yourself and for the bike ) . The GVB supplement is valid for an entire day ( so does n't depend on the number of times you embark ) , but not during rush hour : bicycles are n't allowed between 7:00 -9:00 and 16:00 -18:30 . This is the rule in trains as well , by the way . In tram 26 you can buy a paper supplement at the driver , otherwise the ticket has to be loaded onto an " OV chipkaart " at a machine . I feel the need to add -- if you have a bicycle , why not just ride it :-)
Sounds like you 're out of luck if you do n't have private transport . <URL> seems to have anything on the site itself , and it 's basically empty , so I went hunting for past reviews or blogs . As a result , there 's an excellent <URL> . Unfortunately ... You may think that the park is difficult to reach , this is not true . Fact is there is no public transport to it but to get there from Tunis , it is an easy two to two and a half hour drive . Bonus is the road is excellent , well paved and the scenery is great too . You feel like driving in southern France . So no , there 's no public transportation , but walking is probably out of the question :( You 're going to need your own or someone else 's vehicle .
Check out foXnoMad 's blog post about it <URL> and <URL> . It 's a two part topic and I would quote it here but there 's too much so check it out at his blog . The links probably wo n't die since it 's a quite popular blog .
There 's nothing wrong with wanting some peace and quiet while traveling , to many people travel is more of a hassle than an enjoyment so I 'd say it 's quite common for travellers to expect non-social time . Not everyone is trying to chat all the time . Social cues and customs differ between countries , but I 'd say in the West at least , if someone strikes up a conversation with a stranger it 's probably because that person looks " available " for a chat . Some things I do when I do n't feel like having a chat is to busy myself with something , like reading/writing , smartphones are a blessing and a curse in that regard . Simply having earphones on ( music optional ) or closing your eyes for a light sleep also sends the message that you 're not up for conversation . That said , I 've learned to enjoy the occasional small talk with travellers . I 'm a bit of a private person as well but sometimes it ca n't be avoided , so might as well relax and make the best of it , it 's a part of travel as a whole
The bad news is , they simply did n't want to take a photo with you , that 's it . That 's the common excuse flight attendants use when they do n't want to take a photo with someone . To prove this , check this <URL> , in one of the most famous cabin crew groups in Facebook ( I do n't own it ) . You will see many photos for Emirates cabin crew with passengers . Check other albums as well , you will find the same . The rejection could also be due to the fact that it 's during the boarding , it 's somehow a critical time . So , next time ask in a better time , like after service for example . Emirates , as well as all other airlines ( AFAIK ) , has no rules regarding taking photos while on uniform , whether it 's with passengers , celebrities , in planes , in airports , etc. . It 's considered a free publicity . Of course , as long as the photo is " fine " and not degrading by any means . I am aware of one airline that totally prohibits this , which is Qatar airways . A photo with uniform has one punishment , that is termination , no exception for that except for the official photos by the airline itself . All the unofficial photos for Qatar crew members are published by their owners after they leave Qatar . This is a source of jokes actually among the cabin crew community .
A type D visa , like a residence permit , allows you to make short trips to the other Schengen countries -- very much as if you held a long multiple-entry type C visa or were visa-free . You only need to comply with the 90-of-180 days rule for the days you spend in Schengen minus the Czech Republic . The " valid for " field on D visas state the issuing country rather than " Schengen States " , because it is only in that country you get the full rights implied by that visa . The less extensive rights to short visits is something one needs to just know . It is not true that you " can only enter EU from the Czech Republic " . You 're perfectly allowed to enter and exit the Schengen Area through any of the external borders . You should be prepared to explain and document that you 're on your way either to the Czech Republic or to an allowed short trip in one of the other Schengen countries . You should bring your passport such that you can identify yourself to any authorities that might ask . A student ID is unlikely to be accepted by police who are already suspicious enough to ask you for papers .
If you buy/rent a motorbike in Vietnam do they have ones with the abilities to strap on a large backpacking backpack ? A lot of South Asian countries have a collection of powerful pre/post war bikes which carried on production locally after the wars ended . Those were very accomadating bikes . For ex , does this ( googled ) bike 's setup offer you enough storage space ? <URL> If that was n't enough , you can also opt for a motorcyle with a side car : <URL> Such bike mods are pretty common in many South East Asian countries ( Pakistan , India , Nepal , Bangladesh , Thailand , Burma etc ) . Unlike in US , many people over there travel luggage heavy on motorcycles and finding such a bike for rent should n't be a problem in a tourist place . I 've seen just regular motorbikes without any attachments for carrying luggage , but I 'm assuming if two people can ride a bike then there 's no reason a single person could n't travel with a bag right ? Oh yes , there should be no problem at all , from my experience in Asian countries so far . For specific local laws you will have to look up their motorcycle law manual . But as a general observation , it would n't matter .
Most of Europe is in the <URL> treaty area . The UK is n't . You would need a Schengen tourist visa for sightseeing . And a transit visa is n't sufficient for a longer stay in the UK , either .
Where you live or what other passports you hold is irrelevant . If you apply for your Iranian visa with your Canadian passport , you will enter as a Canadian , not an American .
I contacted visatorussia and got a quick answer to this question : If you do not plan to stay at a hotel , please leave the field blank . A hotel will then be mentioned in your invitation for form 's sake and you will have to indicate the same hotel in your consulate application form . This way you will obtain a tourist visa with no complications and once in Russia , you will be able to choose accommodation in accordance with your convenience .
end question
start question
Can I use Korean airlines mileage for Delta domestic flights ?
As a general rule , you should join the mileage program for the airline that you want to fly when you redeem your miles . While it is possible to redeem miles on partner airlines , there are several disadvantages : Availability is typically much more limited when trying redeem miles on partner flights . Also , it 's often impossible to check availability on partner airlines using the online site and you will have to have an agent assist you . Mileage " prices " are not always symmetrical . It is sometimes more expensive to reserve a reward flight on a partner airline than it would be to use miles on the same airline . For example , reserving a Delta flight using Korean miles might be more expensive than booking the same flight using Delta miles . Frequent flyer programs are usually targeted to the airlines home-market . Mileage credit card offers and other partner promotions are typically targeted to those customers . For example , credit cards that are only issued in Korea , hotel partners only in Korea , etc. . Finally , it may be more complicated to book reward tickets outside of the home-market ( no local phone number , website that takes foreign credit cards etc. ) That being said , in some cases when it is possible to earn miles faster on the " other " airline , you could consider using their program . For example , if you have an elite status , use a mileage credit card or the airline is offering other promotions . In this case , you should consider the trade-off of earning miles faster versus the problems mentioned above . EDIT Just noticed , for example , the Delta offers a special " Low " economy class reward for only 12,500 miles whereas the cheapest reward using Korea miles for a USA domestic flight is 25,000 .
My preferred method , because it requires no special equipment : Wrap the bottom of the bottle in a towel , or place a phone book against a wall or tree . Hit the bottom of the bottle firmly and evenly against a reasonably flat , vertical surface ( such as the wall , or a tree ) . The pressure of the wine against the cork will gradually nudge the cork out . As an alternative , you can hold the bottle upside-down between your knees and strike the bottom of the bottle with a shoe . Once the cork is partially out , remove it with your hands or pliers . Alternatively , you can continue hitting the bottle rhythmically until the entire cork comes out . If you are trying to open a carbonated beverage ( e.g. , champagne or lambic ) , let the bottle sit for 10-15 minutes before removing the cork . Found the steps on <URL> , complete with video , and several alternate methods .
As far as I know , Delta , like most other airlines , does n't give customers the option to directly buy tickets with a combination of miles and cash . The closest option I know of is that you can use money to buy miles ( see the " SkyMiles " tab on the Delta home page ) . You could buy the additional miles that you need , then book the flight using miles only . Unfortunately , the pricing for buying miles is pretty unfavorable . You do n't get to see the prices until you log in ( so they may offer different prices to different people , perhaps depending on elite status ) , but for me , the price is 3.5 cents ( USD ) per mile , in 2,000 mile increments . ( So you could get 4,000 miles for $ 140 or 6,000 miles for $ 210 . ) I usually figure the fair value of a mile is about 1 cent or less , so these miles are overpriced by a factor of 3.5 . You may want to consider paying cash for this flight ( which also gives you the choice of shopping other airlines ) , and saving your miles until you have either earned some more , or want to go someplace cheaper .
Yes , you can . On March 23 , 2013 , the ten largest transit smartcards in Japan became fully ( * ) compatible , and this includes Pasmo , Suica and all three systems used in and around Fukuoka : <URL> ( JR Kyushu ) , <URL> ( Nishitetsu ) and <URL> ( Fukuoka City Subway ) . ( diagram <URL> ) ( * ) For tickets , anyway , electronic money is a little more complicated , and there 's a long tail of non-top-ten cards that are only partly compatible . See <URL> for the gruesome details .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Yes , you need to collect and re-check . I 've done this many times at Auckland . The reason is immigration and customs is only at the Auckland international terminal . NZ has strict controls on luggage - and will xray and scan them for food , wood , and many other restricted items . You need to be with your luggage when this happens . If they checked it through for your domestic flight , then it would n't go through customs . Once you 're through with your luggage into actual NZ , it 's actually about a 1.2 km ( from memory ) walk , or a free shuttle ride to the domestic terminal , where you 'll get your flight to Queenstown . When flying to Queenstown , if you can , <URL> - the view is spectacular .
To follow up on my question - I emailed American to ask them if there was anything else I could do with these upgrades ; and they allowed me to convert as many as I wished to miles , at 500 miles per upgrade . I am an Exec Platinum who flies a lot with them , so this may have been a one-time offer - I ca n't guarantee if they would always do this for everyone ( I do n't think it 's in the rules ) . But it would be worth trying if anyone is in a similar position .
No . An F-1 visa is valid for study . You can only use it to enter the US when you are properly enrolled at an authorized institution and they have indicated this status in the <URL> database . When you arrive at the port of entry , the officer will check the database and you may well be denied entry . If your nationality is such that you need a visa to transit the United States , you 'll need to apply for a new visa .
There are no official limits ; that is the GDS systems do not impose a limit . Each airline is free to release their fares and control booking based on their individual requirements . You can usually find this information in the agent reference/manual/guidelines published by airlines . These also include the fare rules , restrictions , refund policies , penalties and a lot of TLA ( three-letter acronyms ) that are only relevant to those in the industry . You simply have to search for the airline you are interested in , here are some examples that I found : Frontier has it available on their <URL> , written in plain English ( my emphasis ) : Frontier participates in the following Global Distribution Systems : Amadeus , Sabre and Travelport ( including Apollo , Galileo and Worldspan ) . Please be familiar with the specific formats and requirements of each system for booking and ticketless/Guaranteed Ticketing travel . Frontier utilizes teletype ( TTY ) connectivity for availability and will open and close inventory with AVS messaging . F9 flight schedules will be available for booking up to 180 days in advance of departure date in the GDS systems . American Airlines , states <URL> : You can book a flight on aa.com up to 331 days in advance . British Airways publishes fares <URL> : You can access information up to one year in advance . Finally , a route is different than a flight . A route is a combination of arrival and destination ( with optional stops ) , but a flight is a timed departure for that destination . There are some routes that are seasonal , some routes that are permanent - and the availability of flights also fluctuates . There are usually multiple flights on a route . An airline may have multiple flights on the same route ; and multiple airlines may offer different flights , or even flights departing at the same time ( often within 30 minute gaps ) . This is often the case on popular/busy city combinations .
There is nothing in the regulations that prevents an applicant from using a hospitality exchange or social networking for accommodation . They would treat these arrangements in the same way as if friends were offering you a place , but since they are not real friends , you will need to be a bit careful with how you present your evidence . It means you ca n't just say ' couchsurfing ' on your application ; instead you 'll need to demonstrate that firm arrangements are in place with each provider and that these arrangements are an acceptable substitute for a personal invitation . It would be wise to include a ' backup provider ' for each place you plan to stay to show that you have a contingency if the planned accommodation is not available or turns out to be unsafe or unlawful or otherwise unacceptable .
I think it depends on the airline you 're travelling with , and from what airport . Some airlines have launched mobile boarding passes ( exact name may vary between airlines ) . With this , you 're able to call up your boarding pass on your phone , and the barcode on it can be scanned in at the various points where a boarding pass is needed . As the airport infrastructure needs to updated to be able to read mobile boarding passes , it is n't available at all destinations of the airline . Typically , this is done via an application on your phone . The app lets you pull up your boarding card , allows it to be updated if requested , and ensures that the information is presented in the required size and format . In some cases though , I think it 's done with a PDF . For the Kindle case , if your airline supports mobile boarding passes , then I 'd expect you 'll be fine to use it . Just ensure that the 2D barcode , the flight number and your name all show on the screen at the same time , so everything that 's needed by a human and by the barcode scanner are all available at once . If your airline does n't support mobile boarding passes , then you 're likely out of luck . Even if they use 2D barcodes on their printed boarding passes , the barcode reader could well have issues with reading from the e-ink screen , so you 're unlikely to be able to use it . The only good news is that more and more airlines are rolling out mobile boarding passes ( as they 're more convenient for users , and more convenient for pushing out changes than re-printing boarding cards ) , and more airports are supporting them .
No you ca n't , the Indonesian VOA is a single entry visa valid for one entry for 30 days . I go to Jakarta at least once a month and my passport is full with these , unfortunately even if I come back in less than 30 days I will have to issue a new one for each entry . So , consider an extra $ 25 VOA fees for the second itinerary . Official reference : <URL> : 3 . Visit Visa for 1 ( one ) time travel given to Foreigners intending to conduct : Tour ; ...
In other words : is there a policy that a document used in a train booking must also be acceptable for entry and exit from Russia ? No , there is no written policy for that . The only thing you should be aware of is the conductor during the board check validates your document and ticket . The document number and your names in it must be the same as in your ticket . So , you must provide them your ID-card , and , as far as I know , it does n't looks like a passport . This can be a problem in general , as the conductors simply can be unfamiliar with such document formats . This can cause the delay in boarding and even the denial for the trip ( as you said that you do not speak Russian , they will try to find an English speaker ) . From other side , the Sapsan 's are frequently used by foreigners , and for this exactly train you really not in a danger . But I still do advice for you to get the passport with you , for the safety ( it much more safer to bring it with you rather than leave it in a hotel ) . Passport check are rare in general , but on railway stations and subway they still can be met . In case if you have no passport with you , police can provide you to the police station for a further checks , and they can leave you there for hours . This is not the situation I want to be in . As for the difference between domestic and international trains - I think that you really should use the passport there , as the conductors during the boarding are checking the visas for all the passengers , and there is a huge probability of denial for such trip if you have used not a passport ( even if you have it with you ) - they simply will be over-insure themselves . Also , be aware of that the <URL> may not accept your Visa/MasterCard payment card if they are issued not in Russia . So , you have to find another site for ticket purchasing . For example , this can be used : <URL> but personally I have n't used any of such sites for myself . Edit : Kazakhstan is a member of <URL> , so you can use your ID as it is ЗЗ - Foreign document ( passport , identity card , etc. ) issued to citizens of the CIS But I suggest you to use it only for domestic trains , as I stated before .
As a general rule , you should join the mileage program for the airline that you want to fly when you redeem your miles . While it is possible to redeem miles on partner airlines , there are several disadvantages : Availability is typically much more limited when trying redeem miles on partner flights . Also , it 's often impossible to check availability on partner airlines using the online site and you will have to have an agent assist you . Mileage " prices " are not always symmetrical . It is sometimes more expensive to reserve a reward flight on a partner airline than it would be to use miles on the same airline . For example , reserving a Delta flight using Korean miles might be more expensive than booking the same flight using Delta miles . Frequent flyer programs are usually targeted to the airlines home-market . Mileage credit card offers and other partner promotions are typically targeted to those customers . For example , credit cards that are only issued in Korea , hotel partners only in Korea , etc. . Finally , it may be more complicated to book reward tickets outside of the home-market ( no local phone number , website that takes foreign credit cards etc. ) That being said , in some cases when it is possible to earn miles faster on the " other " airline , you could consider using their program . For example , if you have an elite status , use a mileage credit card or the airline is offering other promotions . In this case , you should consider the trade-off of earning miles faster versus the problems mentioned above . EDIT Just noticed , for example , the Delta offers a special " Low " economy class reward for only 12,500 miles whereas the cheapest reward using Korea miles for a USA domestic flight is 25,000 .
No , the Go Card is not valid in Cairns . As you quote yourself , the Go Card is only valid for transport in areas managed by TransLink in South East Queensland , and <URL> these are roughly bounded by the Sunshine and Gold Coasts .
It appears not , <URL> : Making your booking and taking your flight The DEFRA Export Section ( Dogs and Cats ) will advise you of the current documentation and vaccination requirements for your destination . We will also require a health certificate from your vet to show that your pet is fit for air travel . When you make your booking you will need to let your travel agent or British Airways booking representative know that you will be travelling with a pet . Your pet will not be able to check in with you but will be handled professionally by British Airways World Cargo , a cargo booking will be required which can be requested through the local British Airways World Cargo booking office . On the day of travel , deliver your pet to the British Airways World Cargo Office . The travel container will be checked and the appropriate charges collected . Please check local payment options when making your booking .
Yes , Iceland is closely associated with the EU and all EU citizens can go there with their ID card ( if they have one , of course ) . It 's also part of the Schengen area , which means there is no systematic border checks and it 's even possible you wo n't have to show your ID at all . Finally , Iceland is also a member of the <URL> , which means that Swedish citizens were already exempt from the passport requirement anyway , as mentioned on <URL> . Depending on airline policy and on the airport , you might still have to show an ID at some stage but your national ID card will be enough .
10:27 am to 11:54 am is insanely tight . The domestic to international MCT at JFK is 1:15 so I think the booking is possible but JFK is notorious for issuing impossible MCTs ( at one point United was selling a ticket with a transfer time of 30 minutes to a different terminal ! ) . So you are a full 12 minutes above the official unrealistic MCT . Nope . You land at LGA at 8:10 AM , let 's say you clear that airport in 40 minutes , that 's 8:50 AM , the drive over should not be more than 40 minutes but even if it 's 60 you have two hours to go through JFK check-in and security . This is way more realistic .
This is an excerpt from <URL> and <URL> See also <URL> even though it is about to be marked duplicate . <URL> has very powerful search options ( see the advanced options ) , including choice of return and departure day , length of stay , period within which the trip should happen and a range of departure and arrival airports . Exactly as you ask they look for connections on separate tickets <URL> , even on different ( low-cost ) airlines . <URL> <URL> does the same and let 's you circle departure/destination in on a map , has date range and also some kind of " promise " to help you if you miss a non-guaranteed connection . Finally be aware of <URL>
In my experience on US airlines , the distinction is whether you are on a regional or mainline flight . On regional flights , you usually get your gate-checked bag back at the gate at your connecting airport ; on mainline flights , it is usually checked to your final destination . Mainline flights are the typical flights most people think of : you are on a Boeing or Airbus jet with 90-100 or more seats and 5 or more seats per row , and the plane says " United " , " American " , etc on it . These flights are actually operated by the main airline ( e.g. United ) . Regional flights are on smaller planes , a jet or turboprop with fewer than 90-100 seats ( common manufacturers are Bombardier and Embraer ) , and usually 2-4 seats per row . The plane says " United Express " , " American Eagle " , etc. . These flights are not actually operated by the main airline ( e.g. United ) but by smaller independent " regional " airlines ( e.g. CommutAir , SkyWest , ExpressJet , etc ) that contract with the main airline , who sells the tickets . See this <URL> for more on these arrangements . My experience has been as follows : On regional flights , the overhead bins on the planes are typically too small to hold a " standard " carry-on bag . Thus , gate checking of carry-on bags is the norm . The gates are set up to make it easy for the workers to collect and return your bags right at the gate . ( It helps that the planes , and hence the jetways , are smaller and closer to the ground , so it is easier to get a bag from the plane to the jetway . In some cases you may even disembark directly onto the tarmac , via stairs , and be handed your bag by the worker who just pulled it out of the plane 's cargo compartment . ) So it is usually on regional flights that your gate-checked bag is returned at the gate at the end of the current leg . On mainline flights , the bins typically are large enough for standard carry-ons . Gate checking is only necessary if the flight is really full , or a higher-than-average number of people have full-size carry-ons , or if someone has an unusually large bag ( probably over the official size limit ) that does not fit in the bin at all . ( If the flight is known to be full , they often ask for volunteers to gate-check their bags , and only do it involuntarily as a last resort . ) As such , since gate checking is the exception , gates for mainline flights are not set up to make it easy to return your bag right at the gate . So the only reasonable place for you to get your bag is at the baggage claim carousel . It would not make sense to send your bag to the carousel at your connection airport ( you would have to leave security to claim and recheck it ) , so they tag it to your final destination and transfer it to your connecting flight just like any other checked bag . So it is usually on mainline flights that gate-checked bags go straight to your final destination . On the other hand , on these flights it is relatively uncommon for bags to be gate-checked at all , and even rarer that you would have to gate-check your bag if you did n't want to .
end question
start question
Can I leave the UK and come back in , on a Tourist visa ?
Per the <URL> , a " general visitor " ( with or without visa , depending on citizenship ) should not " live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or successive visits " . So if you already made several long stays and try to come back for several months , there might be a ( small ? ) risk that the border force officer checking your passport would suspect you are lying about the purpose of your stay in the UK and are actually living there illegally . I also remember reading about a limit of not more than six months in any twelve months but I do n't know if it 's a hard limit or just a rule of thumb and I ca n't find any official source for that . If that 's the case , traveling around March should be no problem , traveling in May would be more difficult ( if I understand your description correctly , at that point , you will have spent 8 months of the previous year in the UK ) . I am not a lawyer but I assume that formally , as in most countries , neither a proper visa ( if your situation made one necessary ) nor a previous visit would entitle you to enter the UK . Border officers will typically evaluate whether your fulfill the requirements for entry every time you cross the border , which means that every time you leave the country , you expose yourself to the risk of being refused entry , however small . In any case , if you are questioned at the border , anything you might provide to establish that you are a legitimate visitor ( details and documentation of where you stayed and will be staying , details of people you want to visit or things you want to do , name of places you intend to see , funds to support yourself , a return ticket to your country of residence , etc. ) might be helpful .
There are tons of trains running between various stations in Delhi and Agra , just do a search on the <URL> . However , Indian Railways does n't believe in regular schedules or short routes , so most of all of them run on long , weird , multi-day routes , and are consequently liable to be delayed , sometimes hours , sometimes days . Many trains also do not have anything approaching comfortable seating by Western standards , and are horribly slow because they stop at every cow shed along the way . Hence your page 's recommendation for trains that start in or near Delhi , which are pretty much guaranteed to be on time , and are " superfast " so they get to Agra in a reasonable amount of time ( do n't expect a bullet train ... ) . The other option is the bus , there are lots more and they are reasonable point-to-point . However , they 're subject to the crawling horror of Delhi traffic and the no-holds-barred mayhem on the highways , so <URL> . Despite some tough competition , Agra is quite possibly the most tout-infested city in India , you may find yourself wishing for a nice , heavy stick to beat off the " taxi sir " hordes that will accost you on the platform the moment you get off . Find and use the prepaid taxi stand at Agra Cantt , but on the way back from the Taj , you 'll have to hone your bargaining skills . And if you 're seriously considering walking the 4 mi between the two , I can only presume you have n't been to an Indian city yet ...
A UK entry clearance gives you ' formal ' permission to arrive/depart any time between its start and end dates . The form asked for your travel dates so that they can try to align the visa 's start date so that your time in the UK is maximized . Once the entry clearance has been issued , it 's ok to change your actual travel date . You can arrive at 12:01 AM on the start date of your visa or any time after that over the visa 's life time . Trying to arrive earlier than the start date is not allowed . And remember , you will still have a landing interview , and if your actual dates somehow contradict the premise of your visit , the IO may become worried . Also remember that you signed an agreement to advise the British issuing post of any significant changes in your circumstances . It 's down to you to determine if your change of plans is derived from a reportable event .
Without knowing which country you are applying for a visa for it 's impossible to answer this with certainty , however ... I suspect your chances of having your application rejected are extremely high . Ignoring the fact that you have ignored the explicit instructions for the application , photos ( even those printed at home ) are generally printed onto special " photo " paper , not standard paper . Any photo printed on standard paper is likely below the standards that are set for the photograph . For example , the <URL> state that the photo must be " Good quality , colour gloss prints , less than six months old " , whilst <URL> state it must be " Printed on photo quality paper " thus standard paper will not suffice for either of those two . Many countries do allow uploading a photo during the ( online ) application process . In this case they will normally include a copy of the photo on the application form , however this is intended more as a confirmation that the photo has been supplied rather than to be used in it 's own right . As they have the original ( uploaded ) photo , no physical photo is normally required in these cases .
This can not be answered in absolute terms since the availability of tickets is not always given . Currently , for example , <URL> . There is , to my knowledge , no limitations who can get tickets to these shows , as long as they are available at all . As Ilya noted , <URL> in late 2012 how you can get standby-tickets by waiting outside of the studio .
<URL> provides an excellent overview of radiation types and what you are most liable to encounter . For airline flights gamma-radiation is the most probable type . ( Alpha particles are stopped by paper , Beta by thin foil or similar . You can buy commercial instruments that will detect radiation for from about $ 200 on up . An off the shelf " PIN diode " acts as an adequate gamma radiation detector in many cases . <URL> from Maxim . Their notes are worth reading in this context . <URL> They say : Abstract : A PIN photodiode , four low-noise op amps and a comparator are used to detect individual photons of gamma radiation . The schematic , design considerations and component selection are discussed . The circuit of Figure 1 includes a PIN photodiode that detects individual photons of gamma radiation . When a photon strikes a depletion region created by reverse bias on the photodiode , it produces a small amount of charge in proportion to the photon 's energy . The resulting signal is then amplified and filtered by four amplifiers and a final comparator distinguishes between the signal and noise . The comparator output pulses high each time a gamma photon with sufficient energy strikes the photodiode . <URL> <URL> <URL> ADDED Here is a description of a DIY real world Gamma Ray detector based on a PIN diode . Made by VK2ZAY - Australian radio-amateur . A number of other on-web designs are based on his work . <URL> <URL> good . Here is a <URL> Related videos - same device <URL> and <URL> and <URL>
If I read things correctly , you are : Currently residing in the UAE Have finished your education in the UK and left Want to visit the UK again , for non-student purposes According to this <URL> ( at least my understanding of it ) an ECO will not cancel a existing Tier 4 Student visa that you have already used to enter the UK . You may however be refused entry under <URL> if you try and use your Tier 4 Visa to enter and the IO determines that your change of circumstance invalidates your visa , however this should not happen obviously , as you will be entering as a visitor on a general visit visa . I am confused as to what you mean by ' proving family ties ' , in the visit visa application , it does ask you to list the details of your Mother and Father , however there is no requirement to prove this in your application , unless specifically asked to . What I think you mean is , how are you going to show that family is one of the reasons you will leave the UK at the end of your visit . You can not prove this , as you already said , because your family lives in Uganda and you do not . Do n't worry , this is not something that severely affects your application . If you can prove beyond reasonable doubt via other means ( economic ties as you said , for example , like a job in the UAE ) , then that should not be an issue . Please correct me if I have misunderstood anything in your question .
You have a residence permit , so you do not need a visa . ( As noted by Relaxed , your single-entry visa is no longer valid because it 's valid for a single entry only , and you 've already used that single entry . ) From the Schengen Borders Code ( <URL> ) : Article 5 For intended stays on the territory of the Member States of a duration of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period , which entails considering the 180-day period preceding each day of stay , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( a ) [ ... ] ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit or a valid long-stay visa ; ( Emphasis added ) The last clause , in italics above , means that you do not need a visa as long as your residence permit remains valid . ( Paragraph ( a ) , omitted , concerns the requirements for a passport or similar travel document . ) Similarly , Article 7 [ ... ] On entry and exit , third-country nationals shall be subject to thorough checks . ( a ) thorough checks on entry shall comprise verification of the conditions governing entry laid down in Article 5 ( 1 ) and , where applicable , of documents authorising residence and the pursuit of a professional activity . This shall include a detailed examination covering the following aspects : ( i ) verification that the third-country national is in possession of a document which is valid for crossing the border and which has not expired , and that the document is accompanied , where applicable , by the requisite visa or residence permit ; ( Emphasis added ) Note the word " or " in the last clause , supporting the conclusion that a residence permit by itself authorizes a third-country national to enter the Schengen area , without the need to hold a visa . ( Section 1 , omitted , concerns entry and exit checks generally ; section 2 concerns the " minimum check " performed on those enjoying the right of free movement . )
You are an EU national living in the UK and want to sponsor your cousin for a short visit . Your cousin is an Indian national who is working in Oman . From Paragraph 24 of the rules , your cousin will need an entry clearance . In order to be successful , he will need to clear all of the points listed in Paragraph 41 of the rules . See <URL> Your cousin should apply on-line as a GENERAL VISITOR . Near the end of the application , he will answer some questions about making a biometrics appointment at a facility in Oman . Once the appointment is booked , he will see a page of information on what to do next . If you are lawfully in the UK and have the financial capacity along with an acceptable level of credibility , you can participate in the application process by offering to help . Because cousins do not have the degree of relationship needed to qualify as family , your cousin will be treated as a FRIEND , and they will need a pretty clear understanding of why you want to do this . For example , do you normally sponsor your cousins in the same way ? What 's special about this particular point in time ? With this background information , your cousin should start by opening an account and going through the application rigmarole at <URL>
Yes , you can leave the station . The period of validity is said to be two days on their official embassy sites in both the US and <URL> , so you should be okay leaving the next day . <URL>
" Leave to enter " is short for " Leave to enter the United Kingdom " . It is defined in <URL> ... <URL> Six months was initially selected as the maximum amount of leave that can be given to a non-visa national because that interval ties in to lots of other legislation rooted in English common law where the interval of six months plays an important part . In the <URL> , the usage of six months is explicit per <URL> ... A visitor is a person who is coming to the UK , usually for up to six months , for a temporary purpose , for example as a tourist , to visit friends or family or to carry out a business activity . How is the six months counted ? Is it a number of days or is it six calendar months regardless of the number of days in each month ? Days have nothing to do with it . Sometimes six months can be 181 days or more and other times it can be 179 days or less . You add six months to the date on your leave to enter and that 's your expiry date . The counting method for corner cases where the person arrives on the 31st of the month is the final day of the 6th month . Examples : People granted leave to enter on 31 Aug 2015 should be gone by midnight 29 Feb 2016 . But consider that people granted leave to enter on 28 Feb 2015 should be gone by midnight 28 August 2015 . However , it is not carved in stone . People have tried taking some of these corner cases to court and have achieved mixed results depending upon what they were trying to accomplish . I have also seen a case where a silver-tongued individual was able to out whittle an official on a corner case and avoid an overstay penalty . Any ambiguities are built into the law from a long , long time back and they are not likely to become more precise in the current era because ' six months ' has a lot to do with a lot of things in the legislative framework . If you think you are in a corner case , it is best to query the IO on arrival what your expiry is . Related : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL>
You 've a multiple ICT T2 visa &amp; you 're eligible to travel back to UK again but as you do n't have any assignment here in UK , its better that you apply for a separate tourist visa . Why so ? The UK immigration officers will ask you the purpose of your visit &amp; when you 'll say " just a friendly visit " or something like that , it would be a violation of your ICT visa . I hope this helps .
Largely No , but ... The UK does not have exit immigration checks . Your passport will be checked by airlines or ferry staff to verify you 'll be accepted into your destination , but no-one from the UK Border Agency will see/check/etc you or your passport However ... The UK is slowly , and many would say somewhat incompetently , rolling out a scheme originally called <URL> . That will involve carriers ( ferries , trains , airlines etc ) sending electronically to the UKBA the details of everyone entering and leaving the UK . It was partly deployed , and I believe will be rolled into the new program . Under that , there 's a chance that the UKBA will be told the details of you leaving . Your problem is more likely to be on your return to the UK . You 'd be entering the UK on your US passport , which only entitles you to a short visit ( up to 90 days ) , and not for the purposes of living in the UK . You 'll get a stamp . You may have issues with convincing them to let you in given that you do live in the UK , and you may have issues if you do n't leave the UK within 90 days on the US passport as the system may detect you as an overstay .
There 's no specific rule saying you ca n't enter the US on a tourist visa after your PR status or other visa expires . However , that 's not to say it wo n't raise questions . They 're probably going to have what happened on their records , and they 'll want an explanation of why she 's visiting , how she 'll support herself , and evidence that she plans on leaving again . Why ? Because lots of people who have their PR status or visas cancelled , try to over stay or re-enter on other ' visas ' to pretend to be tourists , so they can keep on working . They do n't want that to happen , so will need evidence . However , given all this hassle with visas , marriage , and visits , it 's complicated enough that you may want to consider meeting with an immigration consultant / lawyer for more information , to increase your chances of ' ticking the boxes ' ie - doing the right thing . There 's only so much advice you can take from a guy on the internet ;)
As long as you have proof of exit from the US , that is all US customs and immigration will care about . I think you can safely relax and go through the normal shuffle of collecting your bags and rechecking them in for your onward flight , etc. .
There are a reasonable number of car hire places which specialise in this kind of thing : essentially they rent you a car with track day insurance , and access to a track . Much like the " bring your own car " track days , but they provide the car too . <URL> ( UK site but covers other tracks in Europe ) <URL> Prices vary from around $ 200 to $ 8,000 + depending on the car you wish to hire and circuit Donington Park is about the cheapest circuit I know of . Circuits that host/have historically hosted Formula 1 events ( Spa/Monza/Silverstone etc ) tend to be more expensive , along with the Nurburgring and Le Mans . The Nurburgring is fairly cheap itself , but car hire there tends to be quite expensive .
I do like to push them - once again , if you 're really stuck and do n't know where to look , consider <URL> . I 'm not affiliated , although I do compete on there as one of their ' experts ' . Basically they have a bunch of ' experts ' that compete to find you the best price . With what may work best as an open-jawed flight or a double-return ( Japan - > Mexico return , Mexico - > Venezuela return ) will be investigated by people on there . It 's not a free service , but if you do want to use it , check out my profile on here for a discount link . Alternatively sites like <URL> and <URL> are a good start if you want to do all the grunt work yourself .
Since Turkish Airlines offers <URL> to passengers with layovers like yours , you 're going to want to tell them . You might prefer a free stay in a hotel instead , but I would go for the tour . The FAQ does mention : There is luggage custody office next to Hotel Desk with a service fee . You may check the conditions and prices ; <URL> . If requested , touristanbul participants can leave their luggages ( unless they are electronics or precious items ) to the assigned tour shuttles at their own risk . It sounds like everyone can use the Baggage Custody Services , and in addition if you do n't want to pay for that , you can bring your baggage on the tour and leave it on the shuttle bus . But talk to the airline , because you may just be able to check it right through and not worry about it .
To use the lockers in a train station is a good idea , however if your flight is in Schönefeld you should use the lockers at Südkreuz station . As in all stations the cost is 4 Euros for a small locker , 6 Euros for a large locker ( per 24 hours ) . ( Btw . if this is a stopover and you also arrive at SFX , then <URL> , so the simplest option would be to leave your luggage there . ) The lockers as Südkreuz are located at the exit Hildegard-Knef-Platz . They are inside the building , and the police station inside the station is just around the corner , so your luggage should be pretty safe ( take care not to leave any luggage unattended in the open or it will be removed and destroyed ) . Südkreuz is also a good option because it is a traffic hub . It 's probably worth buying a " Tageskarte Berlin ABC " ( day ticket for all fare zones ) at 7.5 Euro ( valid until 3.00 am of the next day ) . From Südkreuz you can either use the S42 train ( going to Ostkreuz ) . This will take you to the districts of Kreuzberg , Friedrichshain and Prenzlauer Berg ( more or less the " party districts " of Berlin ) . The S42 is part of the " Ring " , the line that goes in circles around the inner city ( if you imagine a clock face with the most northern station ( Gesundbrunnen ) at 12 o'clock the S42 goes counter-clockwise and the S41 train goes clockwise . A full circle takes more than an hour and the view is not worth it , so try to catch the right direction ) . However the " Ring " touches Kreuzberg ( probably the most famous of Berlins districts ) only at the periphery , if you want to go there you might want to get off the S42 at Hermannstrasse and proceed with the tube U8 to Kottbusser Tor , right in the middle of Kreuzberg . At Südkeuz you can also take the S2 train going to Friedrichstrasse . If you want to see a few sights you get get off at Potsdamer Platz . Potsdamer Platz itself is more family-oriented entertainment - shopping malls , restaurants , cinemas , the film museum , waxworks and Lego land . But you can proceed by foot along the " Kulturforum " ( if you interested in architekture ; the " Philharmonie " , the most famous Berlin concert hall , is an interesting albeit not beautiful sight ) , stroll by the holocaust memorial until you arrive at the parliament building ( the former Reichstag ) . From there you can stroll down the avenue Unter den Linden to Friedrichstrasse and return with the S2 to Südkreuz . Südkreuz station is located in the Schöneberg district , so you could also explore that . The area around the station is only just being developed , there is not much to see yet . You 'd have to take the 204 bus to Kaiser-Wilhelm-Platz ( the day ticket is good for busses , too ) . For a selection of bars and cafes you can enter Crellestrasse just right the corner of Kaiser Wilhelm-Platz , or ask for Akazienstrasse ( Akazienstrasse and the streets that branch off have a lot of bars , restaurants , clubs etc ) . SChöneberg has also a vivid gay scene , if you specifically interested in / specifically want to avoid this you might want to go to / avoid Bülowstrasse and surroundings . From Südkreuz station the S45 will bring you to Schönefeld Airport ( goes every 30 minutes ) . However the last direct connection is about at 22.45 , which is probably to early for you - there are a few other options ( S42 to Treptower Park , then change to S9 to Schönefeld ) , but past midnight you will probably have to go by bus . S45 resumes operations at about 4.45 am . Since you were talking about skipping the night at a hotel , it would be one convenient solution for you to look for a room in Schöneberg ( not much hotels , but a lot of B&amp;B s and the like ) near Südkreuz and explore the city from there .
Each person ( including children ) needs to file a separate application . Based upon your text , the recommended strategy is ... Your wife applies first and records her GWF number . She schedules her biometrics enrolment on a day that appears totally open . You apply second and put your wife 's GWF number in the remarks section of the application and explain that you are travelling together . If you can not schedule biometrics at the same time , make two different appointments but show up together and ask if they can accommodate you . No guarantees , but sometimes it works .
end question
start question
Are there any legal requirements for renting a car in the US as a foreigner ?
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
I do n't know how diligent each and every consulate is in enforcing this rule but in principle you should not be able to do that . Here is article 6 of the Schengen Visa Code : Consular territorial competence An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Point 2 provides a bit of leeway and point 1 could theoretically allow you to submit your application elsewhere and have it forwarded to the proper consulate but I am not aware of any Schengen countries offering this . To the best of my knowledge , you must generally be a resident in the UK to apply to one of the consulates there . Also note that visa applications for virtually all Schengen countries in London are handled by third-party outsourcing companies like VFS Global or TLS Contact . As a regular tourist , your application wo n't even reach the relevant consulate . I have n't check them all but the websites from the embassies of <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> all contain language to that effect .
The exact requirements vary from state to state , but in New York it appears that there is no requirement for you to get a NY Drivers License ( as opposed to some other states where once you have been a resident for more than 3 months your home country drivers license is no longer valid ) . However on a J1 visa you can optionally get a local drivers license , as long as your visa length is greater than 1 year , AND you have at least 6 months of validity on the visa remaining . As far as whether it 's worth doing this for the purpose of insurance , it depends on what type of insurance you are after . For rental car insurance , there is no difference in cost of the insurance depending on the type of license you have . If you are getting the insurance from the rental car company ( CDP/LDW/etc ) then they will not vary it depending on the type of license you have . If you are getting it via travel insurance or credit card insurance then again it will not vary based on your license - but be sure to read the fine print to make sure it 's covered ! If you are looking at buying a car , then it will make a difference , but be prepared for a shock either way . Many insurance companies will not offer you insurance if you do not have a US drivers license . I 've been told there are some that will - especially for medium-term tourists - but expect to pay a lot for it . If you do have a US drivers license then you will be able to get coverage , but it will not be cheap . Every insurance company I 've ever looked at will ask you how long you 've been licensed in the US , and will penalize you heavily for anything below 18 months/3 years/5 years ( depending on the company ) . Most will also ask how long you 've held a license in another country , and may reduce the price slightly due to your overseas license - but it wo n't be by much . Plugging your details , along with those of the type of car you might consider buying , into some of the insurance companies websites will probably be very telling for you - both in terms of whether they will allow you to purchase coverage without a US license , and how much they will charge with only 1-2 months license history in the US .
Sort of . Every one sort of has roaming though , or per meg data charges . It 's still got to be based somewhere . The closest I 've heard of is <URL> which has a ' Europe Sim ' for this use case . Includes : a Europe SIM Card with $ 10 airtime We 've got the SIM for you ! Our all-in-one replug sim will work in any unlocked mobile device ( including iPhones , iPads and more ) . Simply pop out the size you need and follow your mobiles instructions on how to insert the SIM . There 's no need to worry about which size to order ! Frankly , though , there 's so much wifi around , I 'd personally not bother even getting one if you 're on holiday , but obviously everyone is different .
<URL> , in Greece , does not permit women to enter . Wikipedia explains the rationale behind this prohibition as Monks feel that the presence of women alters the social dynamics of the community and therefore slows their path towards spiritual enlightenment . However , you may want to refine your question . For example , most restrooms are divided on gender , although I largely suspect that that is not exactly the type of answer you were looking for .
Sorry , no trains . I am not sure about freight trains , but there are no passengers trains in Nicaragua anymore since 2001 . Wikipedia has a <URL> In fact there is only one passenger train in the whole of central America and that 's a <URL> along the Panama canal . Further north in Mexico there are lots of freight trains but very few <URL>
In principle , maybe not . In practice , <URL> For a closed loop cruise ( one which leaves and enters through the same port ) , a US citizen does not need a passport to renter the country . They do need you to present some sort of proof of identity and citizenship , such as a birth certificate or government issued ID . That said however , it is highly likely that the passport will be needed in order to disembark from the ship at a port of call - and furthermore many cruise lines , in order to reduce their administrative load , will simply require all passengers to present a passport before boarding . Specifically in the case of the Bahamas , <URL> In the end , the best and most important thing to do is check with the cruise line , but it 's most likely that the answer is going to be yes - especially if they have any intention of , y' know , getting off the boat . Which they should ! In that case , they need passports , or , if they are residents of Michigan , New York , Vermont or Washington , they could get by with an Enhanced Drivers License .
What you are asking is hard . The insurance prices go considerably up for drivers younger than 24 , and for new drivers . From looking online it seems that the big rental companies will not rent out cars to people younger than 24 or who have had a driver 's license for less than 2 years . I was able to find at least 3 smaller companies who will rent cars to new ( and young ) drivers for a higher rate . <URL> <URL> <URL> I have seen that there are other companies which rent to new drivers , discussed in various forums , you should google for " השכרת רכב לנהג חדש " ( car rental for a new driver ) and " השכרת רכב לנהג צעיר " ( car rental for a young driver ) . Knowing Hebrew would come a long way to help you read the forum posts , or you could try and rely on Google Translate .
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
Suggestion If you can not speak Indonesian , it is better for you to be always accompanied with an Indonesian you trust when making any contract . The hotel staffs might be the best choice because they can speak both Indonesian and English . As giving tips is common in Indonesia , just give them about 25,000 rupiahs for a 30 minute task . It should be enough to make them happy . :-) It is also better to mention the tips in advance so they get excited . Main answer Every motorcycle in Indonesia has both STNK ( Surat Tanda Nomor Kendaraan ) and BPKB ( Buku Pemilik Kendaraan Bermotor ) documents . When riding motorcycle , we need to bring the original STNK and driving licence . Keep the BPKB at home . As a result , when you rent a motorcycle , you must get the original STNK . You can not get the BPKB because it must be kept by the owner . The STNK looks like the following figure . How can you determine whether it is original or counterfeit ? It is a bit difficult . Even though registered number written in STNK agrees to the number plate , the STNK might not be original . So what can we do ? The most important thing you have to remember is the person from who you rent the motorcycle . Just take a picture with him/her . Cheese ... Making a copy of his/her ID card is common procedure . Please check the photograph . Unfortunately , the ID card might also be counterfeited .
Basically , no . As my Colombian flatmate in London put it , every time a revolution occurs , the first thing that gets hit is the infrastructure , and down goes the rail . Not sure how accurate that is in all countries , but it 's certainly the case in Argentina , Chile , Bolivia , Peru , Ecuador , and Colombia . There are some limited train options in Argentina - from Buenos Aires to nearby cities ( like Rosario ) . However the buses are cheaper , and faster , and it 's not far , so why you 'd take the train I 'm not sure . There 's also a train from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes in Peru for Machu Picchu tourists , but that 's a few hours . Worth it though if you are n't hiking , as the views are spectacular ! There 's also a <URL> tourist train from Salta , Argentina , but it 's a one-day thing and comes back to Salta at night . However , not to worry ! The buses , especially in Argentina and Chile , are absolutely fantastic ! For example , a <URL> . They inevitably have movies , great seats that for a few extra euros you can convert to seats that become beds ( known as full-cama ) , and can get food options from crackers up to roasts ! Bolivia and Peru were n't quite as luxurious , in fact I found the buses in Bolivia painful ( but they were cheap ) , although near Lima in Peru you could find the full range of luxury if you so wanted .
You ca n't guarantee it . However , you can increase your chances by showing up earlier , before they start to run out of cars ( at midnight most of the cars are gone and wo n't be back until tomorrow afternoon and evening ) , and by being a frequent renter with them . Also , try asking . I have had rental agencies give me the " good news " that I was getting a bigger car and saying " please , I do n't want a bigger car , they are hard to park , I am by myself and do n't need extra room " has restored my smaller car to me . It would also help not to call what they are doing a con . Many people are happy to get a big car for the price of a small one . They always give you something that normally costs more . If you do n't happen to like it , I get it , I feel the same , but it 's not a trick or a con . You and the clerk want the same thing - for you to leave happy and recommending them to others . Work with the clerk not against them . They do n't know you do n't want the upgrade . Most people do . And if all else fails and you have n't prepaid , pull out your cell phone while standing at the counter and start calling other places to see if they have the car you want . Be clear you do n't mean " or similar " you want that exact model . If they do , off you go and try to get it . If they do n't , well at least you 'll be making an informed decision about whether to accept the upgrade .
There are no international rules that forbid that . There are numerous stories on the Internet about people whose driver 's licenses were conficsated in EU countries . Here is an <URL> . It says : If you break French driving laws you can also have your UK driving licence confiscated by French Police . Similarly , in many countries , if a person is arrested , he or she might be asked to surrender his or her passport to get bail . Summary : I have no idea if it is legal for police to hold your driver 's license in Mexico . But it does n't violate any international laws .
It is about $ 10 taxi ride to 40 Hana HWY location . consider than $ 20 in total ( cover both ways ) and than consider if the savings are worth it .
Yes , you can absolutely get a Chinese visa from a Chinese Consulate in the US as a non-US citizen . I know , because I did it myself a few weeks ago . The only additional information required with your application is that you will need to provide proof of legal status in the US - this means BOTH your original visa ( which obviously they will return ) , a copy of your visa ( which they will keep ) AND either an original and copy of your I-94 card OR a printout from the CBP I-94 website if you do n't have a physical I-94 card ( www.cbp.gov/i94 ) Otherwise the process is exactly the same as for a US citizen applying , so follow the instructions as per the consulate website . Personally I applied in person at the San Francisco consulate and the process could n't have been smoother or easier ( or cheaper ! Only $ 30 for a non-US citizen to get a Visa ) , however if you are far enough away that getting to your nearest consulate is a problem then you will have to get a visa agency/broker involved as the Chinese consulates in the US do NOT accept applications via mail .
There 's a number of options , depending on your exact circumstances . 1 . Your own car insurance . If you own your own car , and it 's insured , then your insurance MAY cover you when you are in a rental car . Often there are fairly strict rules around what is covered , especially as you 're asking about overseas coverage which may often simply not be covered at all . Check your policy and/or call your agent/insurance company to find out exactly what is covered . 2 . " CDW " or " LDW " . Most rental companies will offer a " Collision Damage Waiver " or " Loss Damage Waiver " when renting the car . In effect , this " waiver " means that the rental company waives their right to charge you for any damage to the car when you return it ( normally with exception related to you breaking the law , drink/driving , etc ) . Technically it 's not insurance , but the end result is basically the same . LDW/CDW is often very expensive , and in some cases can double or more the cost of the rental , but the coverage you get as a result is normally very good . 3 . Travel Insurance Many travel insurance policies will cover rental cars . Exactly what is covered will vary from policy to policy , so make sure you read the fine print - especially the different between " primary " and " secondary " coverage ( more on that below ) . 4 . Credit Card SOME ( but now days , far from all ) credit cards have some form of coverage for rental cars when the rental car is charged to the card . Check the specifics on your card to see if rental insurance is included , and whether it 's secondary or primary coverage ( most will be secondary ) . More and more only the higher level of cards are including this coverage ( especially for MasterCard cards ) so never presume that it 's included without checking ! If you do have coverage then you normally do n't have to do anything more than book/pay for the rental using the relevant card to be covered . Primary v 's Secondary coverage Most credit card coverage is what 's called " Secondary " coverage . This means that in the event of an accident you need to first claim against any other insurance you have available to you ( eg , your personal car insurance policy , travel insurance , etc ) , and only if they do not cover the full amount are you able to claim against your credit card . This obviously could have implications when it comes to the renewal price for your insurance ( just as if you 'd had the accident in your own car ) , plus means that you need to file 2 claims to get paid in full . Some credit cards offer " Primary " coverage , either by default , or more for an additional fee . eg , American Express call this <URL> and it costs US$ 18-25 per rental ( NOT per day ! ) . The coverage is better than you 'll get with the default " secondary " coverage , but it 's normally only offered on some high-end cards and some " Business " cards ( and then often only for business rentals ) , or at an extra fee such as with Amex .
Closest I could find on the subject was a discussion <URL> . With best answer being : As far as I know they are important places in terms of military and national defence ; in the border regions as Ben-E said above , offshore , and islands . For instance , some districts located in Phu Tho , Son La , and Yen Bai provinces ; Vinh Thuc island in Mong Cai district , Quang Ninh province ; Bach Long Vi island in Hai Phong City , and some islands in Thanh Hoa and Nghe An provinces and so on . In some areas , foreigners are permitted to access to for the purpose of specific business operations and a local authority official is assigned to accompany . In some of these places , even Vietnamese people are not allowed to enter as a tourist unless permission is obtained or in cases with the company of functional local authority . Most others are just news stories and the like : <URL> <URL> <URL> Best generalization is from the UK : <URL>
I 'm an American living in Chile , and have rented a car here many times . They ask for ID ( your US passport if you are a tourist ) , your drivers license , and a major credit card . You can rent a manual transmission car if you want . There is no test , or anything . They assume you can drive one , since most people outside the U.S. can . However , automatics are also available ( and are common ) at most rental companies .
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
It is probably possible to make calls from the US to Vietnam , but it depends on your provider . ( e.g. Viettel - yes , Vietnamobile - not possible for prepay customers ) . Before you go , you 'll need to turn on roaming . Your provider will have instructions for doing this - searching for <URL> or <URL> got me what I was looking for , so I guess doing the same for Mobifone or Vinaphone will do the same . You could try searching for CQVT [ your mobile provider ] as well , which seems to mean Roaming in Vietnamese . They 'll probably want you to have a fairly large chunk of credit on your phone , certainly in the hundreds of thousands of VND . Before you turn on roaming though and call away , as was pointed out in the comments , it will be expensive . Viettel charges you somewhere in the region of 33000 VND / minute to make calls from the US to Vietnam ( that 's about $ 1.50 right now ) . On the other hand , that 's still cheaper than the $ 3.99 / minute that T-Mobile USA for example will charge you to phone home . Your cheapest option to make calls home is likely to be to use data on a local SIM , and ( again from the comments ) the question as to how you can do that <URL> It will also cost you a lot of money to receive calls - it looks like Viettel would charge 11000 VND/minute for example - so bear that in mind as well . On the upside , it should at least be free to receive an SMS . Finally - to dial an international number , you just dial + followed by the country code , so for Vietnam that 's +84 ( you also leave out the leading 0 of the number ) .
end question
start question
Long drive in France . Are there places to shower and securely park my car ?
There are basically two ways of driving through france . Through the " <URL> ( RN ) " , and the " <URL> " . The autoroutes are the quickest and most convenient network in France . However , if you have the time and want to enjoy the beauty of the countryside the route national provides a valuable alternative for driving through France . Another advantage of the RN is that they are toll-free , whereas most highways have tolls . As @Gilles already said the highways have regular rest areas , they are called " Aires de repos " . <URL> where you can find the offered services per rest area . This website is in French , and also not handy since it uses the French numbering ( Axx ) to search , whereas the Google Map used , uses the <URL> In general you have two types of " aires de repos " . The first being offering services like restaurents , service stations , sometimes a hotel , etc. . The second being the basic version with at most only lavatories . You can distinguish the two by the panels indicating the aires on the highways : The ones with extended services : ( Source : Google maps ) and those with basic services ( typically containing an icon with a fir tree ) : ( Source : Google maps ) Personally , I would not recommend staying the night at basic stops ( the ones with the fir-tree icon ) . The ones with services can provide a relatively safe stop to spend the night . Regarding the showering , some do provide showers , but it is not common . Your best chances are where the truckers rest as well . On the RN , the aires de repos with services are not that common . Usually you 'll find the services in the cities the RN connects . Just before entering a city check for the budget hotels . F1 , Camponille , and Ibis Budget are examples of budget hotels throughout france where you can stay and take a shower . They provide a very basic formula catering to drivers . They are open 24 hours a day . I have spent the night in my car while driving on a route national , but it is something you need to decide for yourself whether you are comfortable doing . I would not recommend staying at a supermarket car park at the city boundaries . Local bored youth might disturb your night 's sleep . What I do is search for a nice spot in the country side , park my car out of sight and take a nap . You can also buy or bring a tent and stay at the various campsites .
This type of question can generally be answered by translating the term into the local language , then searching for it . Launderette is Vaskeri in Norwegian according to Google translate . Searching for Vaskeri Arendal has various results including a business directory : <URL> And just to confirm there 's not a translation error , searching for the address of one of those vaskeris gives the following image in Google street view <URL> ( zoom in to the store behind the parking sign ) . Looks like a place to wash stuff ( rather than a store selling washing machines ) . Of course , there is no guarantee it is still there .
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
Well I can be evil and if people complain , I call them insensitive because I ( genuinely ) have no sense of smell ;) However , logically you do have a few options : hand-wash - a wash-cloth and some soap goes a long way , and for some reason even though the water is cold , it 's never as bad as stepping under a cold shower . deodorant , lots of it . make sure you have clean ( or your closest-to-clean ) clothes on , minimising the risk of odour , and still helping you to feel fresh . wet-wipes / baby wipes . It 's slow , but hey , if it works ... do what our salt-flats tour group did in Uyuni - made a group pact to not shower , so that nobody had to deal with the ice-cold water ( ! )
As a french hiker often going camping , here is what I know . In France , camping is regulated by the law named " Camping , aménagement des parcs résidentiels de loisirs , implantation des habitations légères de loisirs et installation des résidences mobiles de loisirs et des caravanes " from the " décret n ° 2015-1783 du 28 décembre 2015 relatif à la partie réglementaire du livre Ier du code de l'urbanisme et à la modernisation du contenu du plan local d'urbanisme " . Here is a link summarizing what you can / can not do : <URL> ( in French , but you can translate ) . This law makes the difference between a " bivouac " and " wild camping " . " Bivouac " is the term employed to nominated hikers that put a small tent for the night , as they may be too far from civilization . " Wild camping " however is more associated with people owning cars and putting a tent closer to the city , avoid hotel costs . Camping is especially forbidden in some protected areas such as in some National Parks , but each park has its own regulation . If you go to the Pyrénées , there are the National N03 , Regional park R43 and R46 ( see the map in the previous link ) . In N03 , " wild camping " is forbidden , and " bivouac " is authorized between 7PM to 9AM the next day , if you are at more than one hour walk to the park limits , or road access . In R43 ( Parc naturel régional des Pyrénées catalanes ) , " wild camping " is forbidden , but " bivouac " is okay close to the refuges or along the GRs ( the hiking ways ) . In R46 ( Parc naturel régional des Pyrénées ariégeoises ) , there are no specific legislation , so you have to follow the national regulation . It is in general forbidden close to the roads , and you should know that any bit of land belongs to someone . The law says that you need the approval of the owner to put your tent there , who may live miles away . That is the official legislation , but as a camper myself , I can tell you that no one will put you in jail for putting a tent for the night in a forest , just avoid the places where it is explicitly written on a sign . However , you should not leave any trace of your camp when you leave , so remember to take your garbage with you , and organize yourself for the " restrooms " . Have a safe trip !
There are basically two ways of driving through france . Through the " <URL> ( RN ) " , and the " <URL> " . The autoroutes are the quickest and most convenient network in France . However , if you have the time and want to enjoy the beauty of the countryside the route national provides a valuable alternative for driving through France . Another advantage of the RN is that they are toll-free , whereas most highways have tolls . As @Gilles already said the highways have regular rest areas , they are called " Aires de repos " . <URL> where you can find the offered services per rest area . This website is in French , and also not handy since it uses the French numbering ( Axx ) to search , whereas the Google Map used , uses the <URL> In general you have two types of " aires de repos " . The first being offering services like restaurents , service stations , sometimes a hotel , etc. . The second being the basic version with at most only lavatories . You can distinguish the two by the panels indicating the aires on the highways : The ones with extended services : ( Source : Google maps ) and those with basic services ( typically containing an icon with a fir tree ) : ( Source : Google maps ) Personally , I would not recommend staying the night at basic stops ( the ones with the fir-tree icon ) . The ones with services can provide a relatively safe stop to spend the night . Regarding the showering , some do provide showers , but it is not common . Your best chances are where the truckers rest as well . On the RN , the aires de repos with services are not that common . Usually you 'll find the services in the cities the RN connects . Just before entering a city check for the budget hotels . F1 , Camponille , and Ibis Budget are examples of budget hotels throughout france where you can stay and take a shower . They provide a very basic formula catering to drivers . They are open 24 hours a day . I have spent the night in my car while driving on a route national , but it is something you need to decide for yourself whether you are comfortable doing . I would not recommend staying at a supermarket car park at the city boundaries . Local bored youth might disturb your night 's sleep . What I do is search for a nice spot in the country side , park my car out of sight and take a nap . You can also buy or bring a tent and stay at the various campsites .
There are a reasonable number of car hire places which specialise in this kind of thing : essentially they rent you a car with track day insurance , and access to a track . Much like the " bring your own car " track days , but they provide the car too . <URL> ( UK site but covers other tracks in Europe ) <URL> Prices vary from around $ 200 to $ 8,000 + depending on the car you wish to hire and circuit Donington Park is about the cheapest circuit I know of . Circuits that host/have historically hosted Formula 1 events ( Spa/Monza/Silverstone etc ) tend to be more expensive , along with the Nurburgring and Le Mans . The Nurburgring is fairly cheap itself , but car hire there tends to be quite expensive .
There are <URL> ( = Park and Ride ) around Luxembourg City . All but one are totally free . The one at Bouillon is only free for the 24 first hours . When you arrive from Germany , Kirchberg is conveniently located . Otherwise , go to Luxembourg-Sud . It is next to the junction of the highways from Germany , France and Belgium . Kockelscheuer is a bit more remote , but still okay . Beggen is not practical if you arrive from abroad . Each of these parkings has good and frequent bus connection to the center of Luxembourg City . You can reach the city center in less than 20 minutes from each of them . There is strictly no free parking space within 20 minutes walking distance from the city center . As a matter of principle , in Luxembourg City , all the parkings except the P+R have to be paid for . If you can read some French , have a look athe the following official links <URL> <URL>
If you rented the car with a credit card , you will have signed something that says they can charge these things to your credit card and it 's not disputable . The only speed-camera ticket I ever got was in a rental car ( and they tacked on a handling fee to boot . ) It took weeks to come through , but it came as a charge on my credit card . If you had driven your own car on the 407 and then not paid the toll , there would be consequences for the car . ( At one point , you could n't renew your license plates if you had outstanding tolls against that plate . ) Presumably the car people have paid the toll so that their car can still function . You now owe them the money . I am completely sure you 've signed something that holds you liable for these charges . Since you 're describing an invoice , you must have rented the car with cash or cheque . Whether to pay or not now is no different than if you had ordered something and then not paid for it once it was delivered . The country as a whole is not in the habit of enforcing these sorts of debts , so you probably wo n't be nabbed at the border , but you can be certain that the rental company will keep track of you . If they hand the debt to a collection company , it 's possible the collector would find it worthwhile to harass you from a distance . They can be pretty nasty . To me it 's simple . You signed that you would pay such things . Pay it . If it 's a lot of money and you ca n't afford it right now , contact them and tell them so , and arrange to pay it over time . But pay it . And next time stay off the toll highways ( they 're clearly signed ) if it 's not your intention to pay the toll .
Some airlines do seminars for exactly that ( for example <URL> ) . They explain to you beforehand what sounds you are going to hear , what motions you feel , where they come from and what they mean . Then , they take you on a short flight so you can experience it all with someone giving you live commentary on what is happening . The advantage of those courses is that you feel less like locked into an aluminum can without any idea what is happening but rather experience a flight as an informed person . There are also many other <URL> to combat fear of flying . However , in the end , fear of flying - depending on the level - is a phobia just like any other . It is safer to <URL> for example . The vast majority of spiders are completely harmless , too . From the subject matter , it does not really matter so much if you have arachno-phobia or fear of flying , the psychological process of getting rid of that fear is just the same , but always depending on what works best for your brain . There are <URL> phobias , and once you determine if you just feel uncomfortable in turbulence or if you get a panic attack already when you step into the airplane , you can treat the issue accordingly .
All I can say after research that there is no such thing there as <URL> - you can set your tent anythere in safe , and relax . But be aware to the <URL> . There are general things there , but I suggest you to check this on arrival . During summer in Kopaonik some hiking tours are available from various firms , and , maybe , you could find any information about camping there .
There do n't appear to be any ski hills in Georgia , however , <URL> . I 've never been to any of them , though .
<URL> : Some of the trains are fitted with luggage racks and toilet facilities ( usually located behind the drivers cabin or near the guard 's cabin ) And last year there was a drive to <URL> : Transport and Main Roads Minister Scott Emerson said it is reasonable for passengers to expect the most basic amenities on our train network , particularly on longer services . " Having travelled on the Sunshine Coast line many times before I understand how frustrating and inconvenient it can be when toilets are not available , " Mr Emerson said . " From today , trains with toilet facilities will be prioritised to the Sunshine Coast line with particular focus on those busy morning and afternoon peak services . So while not all do , the busy peak trains are more likely to have them , and as of last year , are more likely to be functioning ( ! ) .
The places you have mentioned are in three of the ' <URL> ' : Herts , Hants , and Surrey , and I have tooled around two of the venues ( never been to the Harry Potter film sets ) . It 's debatable whether it makes sense to rent a car to visit popular tourist venues in the home counties , but that 's a topic relying heavily upon your experience in South East England combined with your agenda . The home counties are thought to be safer than say Brixton or Wood Green , but it is not prudent to assume this . Some of the hotels in those locations have a car park located either under the hotel or in a flood lit area , but even in the best of conditions you would n't want to leave your stuff in a car overnight . Put simply , it 's <URL> . The rule goes for stuff that 's visible or stored in the boot . Nobody will sympathise if anything goes missing or if the car windows are damaged ; you can expect the police to sigh and roll their eyes . If you want to keep your stuff safe overnight , carry it into the hotel . In the day time at those venues , it 's generally ok to leave your stuff visible if you are in the venue 's car park ( but not the overflow car park ) , but even then people like to cover it with a <URL> stowed in the boot for that purpose . Look around at what other people are doing , the global rule " <URL> " applies .
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
Fortunately one fan <URL> . To summarise , he started by staying at the Marco Polo , a motel where Cobain used to get his heroin nearby , and shoot up in room 226 . 413 Fleet Street South is a noted spot next , as the house Cobain lived in with his father for several years in the late 70s / early 80s . He drives to Aberdeen ( town slogan : " Come as you are " ) ( they claim him instead of Seattle ) , then on to 1210 East First Street ( in the Felony Flats - another abode of Cobain 's while growing up ) . The Aberdeen museum has a statue of Cobain as well . Aberdeen 's must-see Cobain site is a small park , opened in 2011 by the Kurt Cobain Memorial Foundation , called Kurt Cobain Landing . There 's also several other places where he used to live ( address not mentioned ) , including Dale Crover 's porch , at 609 West Second Street . He goes to ' The Central ' but like many bars of the era , they 've changed crowds , styles and music , like ' The Crocodile ' , the ' OK Hotel ' , Beehive Records ( now a pet store ) , and Linda 's Tavern where Cobain was last seen alive . As I finish summarising , I realise that the article is actually a bit of a gold mine , because it finishes by listing all the addresses of the places mentioned above , which should help you a lot in planning and locating some of the old haunts . Good luck !
There is some parking advice at the website of <URL> ( Dutch ) . Er zijn maar een beperkt aantal parkeerplaatsen bij de terminal . Wij adviseren u te parkeren in het centrum van Hirtshals.Het is ook mogelijk te parkeren bij het kortbij gelegen Hotel Skaga -- Contacteer de receptie van het hotel . Het is niet mogelijk om vooruit parkeerplaatsen te boeken . Free Translation : There are a limited number of parking spots right at the terminal . We advise parking in the center of Hirtshals . It is also possible to park at Hotel Skaga , which is close by . Contact the reception of this hotel for further information . It is not possible to reserve parking in advance .
In my month or so split between riding a motorcycle and taking trains throughout France in the past four years , here 's what I 've found : Takes magnetic strip + signature : Any place that takes credit card and has a live person collecting payment ( e.g. cashier , waiter , etc ) . This means just about all stores , restaurants , manned gasoline stations and manned ticket booths will accept mag + signature , as well as chip + pin . Does not take mag strip + signature : most gasoline stations after hours , bicycle rental kiosks , metro ticket kiosks and train ticket kiosks . Essentially any self-service payment place . Many of these do not take cash either . Pay particular attention to your gasoline level and time of day . I got stuck at gasoline stations after hours more than once . Locals could gas up with chip + pin cards . I did n't have one so I had to convince them to dip their card and take my cash in exchange . I was really glad I carried enough cash to get me to the next pillow . Another thing to watch out for is that , in the US , some banks have EMV cards that are chip + signature rather than chip + pin . It 's confusing because those chip + signature cards may have a PIN setup but that PIN does not work with the chip + pin system . Also , some web sites might mis-report them as chip + pin . As of May 2012 , this was the case with the British Airways Visa Signature EMV card . Before you get a US EMV card , interrogate the bank to make sure it 's chip + pin rather than chip + signature and that it can be used an unmanned kiosks in Europe that only accept chip + pin . You might be able to find legit chip + pin EMV cards in the US from some credit unions like the Andrews Federal Credit Union . Their <URL> is the one I ended up with . See also <URL> and <URL> for more good info on US banks and chip + pin .
Depending on your budget - there are hotels that have garages . We stayed in one a couple of years ago and our car was in their garage for 4 nights we stayed for no extra charge . Then we proceeded to Normandie . It was a medium priced hotel in Montmartre . It is really fun to drive in Paris !
Gazole and Diesel are synonyms . They both mean diesel fuel , as opposed to essence or super ( short for supercarburant , nobody uses the long form ) which means usual car gasoline . You must use the type of fuel that 's appropriate for your car , either gazole or super . I think that diesel engines are more common in cars in France than in most other countries . The extra word extra means a type of fuel that has advantages compared with non-extra , either to mileage or to engine longevity . As far as I know , the term diesel extra is not regulated , it is only a commercial name chosen by this or that brand .
end question
start question
Do I need a vaccine for the Meningitis to go to Peru ?
I checked the website from the <URL> , ( <URL> ) , there is no vaccination needed for that . ( As far as I know , only children get vaccinated for that ) . Check that website , it has a ton of information on the vaccination subject . The vaccinations are not that great anyway ( in the way that they protect you entirely ) . Meningitis can be caused by a virus or a bacteria ( and a parasite or fungus ) and there are over a 100 bacteria/virus strains that can cause it , the vaccinations only protect for a small number of these .
No for both countries : Peru : With a few exceptions ( notably some Asian , African and communist countries ) , visas are not required for travelers entering Peru . Tourists are permitted a 30 - to 90-day stay , which is stamped into their passports and onto a tourist card , called a Tarjeta Andina de Migración ( Andean Immigration Card ) , that you must return upon leaving the country . The actual length of stay is determined by the immigration officer at the point of entry . Read more : <URL> Bolivia : Citizens of most South American and Western European countries can get a tourist card on entry for stays up to 90 days , depending on the nationality . Read more : <URL> I had no problem getting 90 days each on the borders .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
You need a bit more information . Are you going with a tour or solo ? I went solo and I do n't really know any Russian aside form what I picked up while there . I stayed on the Europe side of the Urals , and bounced between hostels . It is definitely more difficult to go solo , but with some pedimiming and patience , it is easy enough . Contrary to a lot of stereotypes Russians are generally nice , helpful people . I ca n't tell you how many pairs of nit socks I bought from the babushkas on the streets . If you smile and point , you should be fine . It really depends on how experienced you are at traveling . I do , of course , always recommend studying up on the culture and language A BIT before you go . Know some words and carry a dictionary . The ' Where is ... ( bathroom/police/embassy ) ' and ' I want ... ( food/water/beer ) ' set of words is pretty much required where ever you go .
Just asked my Taiwanese friend . She said you have to apply for Tai BaoZheng which can easily be obtained in Taiwan through China Travel Agency . It normally takes 1-2 days . And you can also fly to China and get the Tai BaoZheng at the airport . However , not all airports have the equipments to do that you have to check with the embassy which airport can do that .
It is available in India , and in Delhi in the North , but the supply may not be reliable . As the US <URL> notes : India has the highest burden of rabies in the world , with estimates of 15,000 -- 20,000 human cases per year . Dogs roam in packs in many areas of the country . Unfortunately , human rabies immune globulin is not readily available , except in some clinics in major cities . Information about such clinics can be obtained from the website of the <URL> . Otherwise , if a traveler has not received preexposure rabies vaccination , a bite may result in having to leave the country for postexposure prophylaxis . Even so , a preexposure series is not recommended for all travelers to India . Cost is a consideration for many . Long-term travelers , expatriates , missionaries , and volunteers may want to obtain preexposure immunization for themselves and their children . Travelers may want to purchase a medical evacuation insurance policy that will cover travel for recommended rabies postexposure prophylaxis .
Easy . For starters , there 's a bus ( do n't take it ) from Venuezuela via Lima and Santiago to Buenos Aires that I was told about while there , takes a week . But gives you an idea of the max time you might spend on buses , given you 're doing a bit of tracking around . Lima to Arequipa and then Cusco can be done in 1-4 days depending on what stops you want to do . I recommend a side trip to Colca Canyon near Arequipa , go find the Condors . Inca Trail and Machu Picchu are obviously done together , you could allow a week for acclimatisation and the trail , including some time in Cusco . 8 hours by bus to Lake Titicaca ( Puno ) . You do n't need more than a day or two at max here . Most travellers just do n't like it that much , and some feel the reed islands are a scam , but if you 're like me and dreamed of seeing the lake , you can and will still enjoy it . 5 hours by bus to La Paz . 2-3 days here - things like the Death Road , exploring the city and more . Overnight bus to Uyuni , and then a salt flats tour . Worth noting that the ' best ' option is to carry on through to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile , but some do go in a sort of loop back to Tupiza , from memory . If you did go to San Pedro , it 's then 10 hours by bus to Salta in Argentina and another 20 to Buenos Aires . Heck , you could even go down to Santiago and Mendoza ( wine country !!! ) and then across to Buenos Aires . See how your time is going and go with the flow . I 've not been to Bonito and the falls , although I 'd ask why not Iguazu Falls ? However , the main thing - do n't overplan it . Give yourself 6 weeks from Lima to Buenos Aires , and pick the things that are absolute musts . Then let other travellers fill in the gaps with suggestions . You may find yourself in Nazca , seeing the Nazca Lines , going to the jungle in Bolivia , wine country in Argentina , or even down the coast from Buenos Aires ( 20 hours ) to the wildlife area around Puerto Madryn ( whales !! ) . I spent 4 months tracking around several of these countries , but a friend I traelled with for a bit went from Santiago and Mendoza , up to Iquique , across to La Paz , Lake Titicaca , Cusco + Machu Picchu ( train not trail though ) , Arequipa and Colca Canyon , Nazca and Lima in 3 weeks , without rushing . Yes it 's a lot of bussing , but you get used to it , and some of the buses in Peru , Chile and Argentina are surprisingly luxurious for a few extra dollars ( think beds ! ) . Look for full-cama/cama-suite buses . I did n't finish all my posts on South America , but <URL> has quite a few posts on some of the places you are talking about , which may be of interest for timeframes - I tend to describe the transportation quite a bit too .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
I am afraid there is no temporary ( nonimmigrant ) visa that allows you to be a tourist and work at the same time ( except for H-1B , H-2B ) , and by work I mean getting paid by any US employer . As a Dutch citizen , you can enter under the visa waiver program which allows you enter for tourism/business/medical reasons only . You will not be allowed to work . To work in the US temporarily you need to have a H-1B visa , to obtain that you need to have a job offer from a US employer . If you managed to get that then you are allowed to work with this employer only and changing the employer is another story . So I do not think this fits your needs . Regarding WWOOF , their page makes it clear that <URL> . Anyway , since WWOOF is not a paid work neither volunteering it will be ok to become a WWOOFer with your tourist visa , according to their website : WWOOF is an opportunity to visit farms affiliated with our network for a cultural and educational exchange . Most people outside the United States who come WWOOFing use a holiday or tourist visa . Although many of the hosts on our network are associated with organic lifestyles and sustainability , it is important to note that persons associated with WWOOF-USA are travelers experiencing a wide variety of sustainable living situations and are not " workers " or " working " for wages or other remuneration in the United States . Bottom line , you need to change your plans a little , removing the " working in restaurants " part will make your trip possible and legal with a tourist visa , other option would be obtaining an immigrant visa which takes time and not as easy as nonimmigrant visa . For more information : <URL> .
No visa is required for transiting in Japanese airports if you have immediate flight connections regardless of nationality . Anyway , there is a <URL> which is intended for people who have longer layovers before transiting and want to go sightseeing or resting in Japan for few days ( up to 15 days ) .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
Yellow fever is a tropical disease and the vaccine is only mandatory in French Guyana so it should not be necessary to visit mainland France . I am also pretty sure it 's not needed in Italy , Scotland or Austria . Indeed , I do n't think I ever came across any mandatory vaccines for travelers outside of yellow fever in at-risk countries ( i.e. tropical countries ) . Routine vaccines like the tetanus vaccine are recommended -- but not mandatory for visitors -- pretty much everywhere . One issue that is specific to the region is <URL> . From the countries you want to visit , it 's especially a concern in Austria , if you plan to go outdoors ( Lyme disease , also carried by ticks , is an issue too but I do n't know about recommended immunization -- EDIT : check the comments for more info on that ) . As far as I know , the rationale behind mandatory yellow fever vaccine ( and the international agreements to enforce it ) it to prevent visitors from importing the disease and starting an outbreak in a region where that 's a risk . If a disease is endemic and the local population is immunized , there is no point in making a vaccine mandatory and devising some costly enforcement measures , it 's mostly your problem if you get ill . That 's why all the recommended ( and useful ! ) vaccines are not mandatory . Many lists are of recommended vaccines are available , here are a few US Center for Disease Control 's <URL> <URL> <URL> from the French ministry of Foreign Affairs and similar sites from other countries However , these lists are often designed for residents of a particular country ( i.e. vaccines that are routine in France would not necessarily be explicitly listed on French sites , etc. ) so it might be best to seek a Brazilian source .
Fortunately , I never faced a situation where the company owned laptop was stolen , while I was traveling overseas with it , I was given a Letter of Authorization ( LOA ) certifying that the laptop , I am carrying with me , is a company owned property , for business use , by the Immigration department of my company . The primary usage of this LOA mentioned to me , by the immigration department folks , was for producing a documentary evidence to the Custom officials , if asked for by them . The LOA , I carried looked similar to the one posted <URL> . IMO , the same letter could have been used to assert that the stolen laptop in your case , was a company owned device , and not a personal device . Though , I do not know of any such provision/restriction in law , which prohibits from filing a theft complaint either in USA ( based on the answers on this question to my immigration department , when I was traveling to USA ) or in India ( I live in India ) .
I traveled most of the Panamerica by public bus in 2008-2010 . A normal car should be sufficient for the main road even though south of Mexico is is usually a 2-lane affair and can be pretty windy in the mountains and you ca n't go too fast . However you may want to leave the Panamerica for some side trips and the smaller roads are often not in the best condition . But normal cars are used by the locals everywhere .
It being the Lake District in June , you can expect rain , gorgeous sunshine , fog , wind , calm , hot and cold , so for the first part of your question : take layers of clothing , with an outer waterproof / windproof layer take a hat take sun screen take midge repellent That 's the UK for you - very variable :-) For the second part - I would suggest booking B&amp;B 's , especially if the 5 day forecast is good , as the route can get very busy very fast . There is a lot of accommodation along the route , but you do n't want to be stuck .
Assuming you have a debit card on the Cirrus network , you should be able to get Canadian cash very easily . You should know we have two kinds of ATMs - those associated with a bank and the so-called " White label " ones that are typically in convenience stores and hotel lobbies and charge a much higher fee . The machine will tell you the fee as part of the transaction ( and you can cancel without incurring it if you do n't like it ) , but if you seek out a bank-associated one ( on the outside wall of a bank , typically , though there may be bank-associated ATMs at the airport ) you will save on fees . It would help to know a little French - please , thankyou , and numbers for speaking , more than that for reading . You will find that written signs are often in French only ( eg instructions in a parking garage ) which you can probably muddle through with a phrasebook as long as you have the time . Most people speak English , but the signs do n't give you that impression . Service people will typically greet you either with bonjour or hello-bonjour , which can be hard to recognize as a greeting at first . If you do n't have enough French to follow a TV show in it , and you do n't care about Canadian sports and politics , you are not likely to enjoy watching TV in the hotel ( the channels are half-and-half English and French and the hotels seem to carry less US channels than the rest of the country ) , so perhaps bring a book or something else for evening entertainment . Montreal is a great city for walking and a horrible city for driving . Bring a guidebook and go for walks at lunchtime , check out the old city , and try not to sneer at us for considering that to be old . I recommend against having an opinion on The Two Solitudes , Distinct Society , and the like . Eg do n't say " were n't you guys going to separate or something ? " with people you 've only just met . And bring your appetite ! The food in Montreal is amazing . You should eat smoked meat and bagels , and poutine , because they 're iconic , but you will also find wonderful fine dining , locavore , slow food , and more .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
Your luggage will be checked in all the way . You do n't need to collect it as you will be in transit , and your luggage will be in a secured area . You will ( of course ) have to carry your carry-on luggage with you to the next plane .
end question
start question
What is the fastest way to get from Courmayeur/Aosta to Milan ?
You have at least two options : Bus + train The nearest railway station to Courmayeur is Pré-St . Didier , approximately 6 km from Courmayeur . To get from Courmayeur to Pré-St . Didier , take a bus with <URL> . This bus departs several times per day and takes 10 minutes . You need <URL> . It 's also possible to take this bus all the way to Aosta , but it 's perhaps more interesting to change to the train . For the train from either Pré-St . Didier or Aosta to Milano Centrale , you can use the search engine at <URL> . To get from Pré-St . Didier to Milano Centrale , you need to take the train to Aosta , then Aosta -- Ivrea , Ivrea -- Chivasso and Chivasso -- Milano . This route takes 4 hours 18 minutes and costs $ 17.40 . There are other routes that take longer . Note that <URL> , used by bahn.de and other websites , is incomplete . It claims a journey trip from Pré St. Didier to Milan takes 6 hours 55 minutes , by train to Aoste , bus to Martigny , train via Visp to Milano . This is neither fastest nor cheapest ! By bus all the way SAVDA also operate <URL> . Times and frequency depend on the time of day . The bus takes approximately 3 1/2 -- 4 hours , and costs $ 18 .
You can fly from Mindanao to Cebu and then to <URL> instead . Tickets from Cebu are about 150 $ . From there you can take a public bus or jeepneys to Catbalogan . You can also <URL> with driver for 100 $ / day . While this is not a direct transport either , its surely better than the 12 hours boat from Cebu . Tacloban might also be the better place to celebrate new year since it 's a bit bigger than Catbalogan and has specific <URL> on that .
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
It 's possible , but you would have to charter your own speedboat , which would be stupidly expensive : quotes on the net vary from 8000 baht for a privately negotiated transfer to 15000 baht ( ! ) to getting the Holiday Inn to pick you up in their own boat . Staying another night and taking the ferry across the next day will thus almost certainly be cheaper . In addition , the feasibility and cost of this will depend on weather conditions , and the crossing will be actively dangerous if your departure is delayed for any reason and you end up doing it at night : those speedboats are fast and you 're screwed if you hit anything in the dark . Also , Destination Air used to offer a seaplane shuttle for 5000 baht/seat , but this stopped running a few years ago .
Funnily enough , there 's scientifically exact solution to this - it 's known as the <URL> and is considered to be NP-complete - it is expected that no algorithm can be both correct and fast ( polynomial-time ) on ALL cases . But naturally there are tips and suggestions to help guide you towards an optimal solution . Running shoes , it 's good to remember , have space inside them . Stuff socks , chargers and whatever else fits into them ! Oddly , I pack my jacket last . As you 've pointed out it takes tons of space if put in first , no matter how you fold it . But I find I can stuff it in no matter what at the end , and it means it 's easily accessible if the weather changes . I also find that ' hard ' solid items ( netbooks ) can make room for themselves after the fact . I 'll just force-slide it down the back of my pack , and it never seems to not fit :) Now , for the main set of clothes , assuming you have ' sets ' , the Bundle wrap method saves a lot of space and keeps stuff quite well folded and together . See <URL> . Also <URL> . And I ca n't answer this without linking to <URL> - it 's famous among minimalist travellers for giving you suggestions about what to keep/lose to lighten your load or fit more in .
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
* ( first of all , I only recommend this if you 're happy to quickly selectively skip around the top attractions in a museum before moving on to the next one . Each one of the 5 museums you 've mentioned is huge , with enough for two or more full days ' visits by someone very interested , and a full day each for someone moderately interested ) * If you really do n't mind skipping to see the best stuff and then heading on , after your very busy day in South Kensington as DJClayworth suggests , you could : <URL> early in the morning , selectively walk around the bits you 're most interested in Either walk ( 20 mins , not much to see ) or get a bus ( any bus ) down High Holborn to St Paul 's Take a quick look at St Paul 's Cathedral while you 're there , it 's pretty spectacular , but probably do n't go in today ... Continue with a short 10 minute walk south along the Millenium Bridge ( pedestrians-only , good views of the river ) ... ... which takes you right to the door of the Tate Modern . It also works going the other way , Tate first ; it 's a question of where you want to be in the evening . The British Museum and Tate Modern are n't as close to each other as the South Kensington museums , but they 're still pretty close and it 's rather nice that the route between them can go via St Paul 's and the Millenium Bridge without really adding any time .
From Melbourne International Airport , the cheapest option is to catch the bus to Broadmeadows and then the train from there . Total cost is $ 3.76 if you already have a Myki . It 's roughly 20 mins to Broadmeadows station and then about 30 mins by train to Southern Cross . From Avalon , the shuttle bus by <URL> is the cheapest at $ 22 . It takes about an hour . If there are multiple people travelling however , it may be cheaper to take a cab to Lara and catch the train from there . For just one person though , the coach is still cheaper than this more inconvenient option .
Please bear in mind that it 's a quite long whole day journey . There are the following option to get from Langkawi to Phuket . I believe the same should work in reverse . By ferry : <URL> ( ~ 3300-3700 THB ) Service was launched at the end of 2012 . High season route only ( operating Nov - April ) . Check in point located inside the Kuah Jetty ( located in Kuah Town ) on the Pattaya Beach . Travel Time 10 hrs . Bookings can be made in person at a booth on the pier road in Chalong or by various payment methods over the internet . It appears there is no luggage restriction as there would be when flying . The ferry stops and collects at Koh Lipe ( immigration clearance ) , Trang ( 30 minute break ) , Koh Mook , Koh Kradan , Koh Ngai , Koh Lanta , Koh Phi Phi ( 7 stops in total ) . The Malaysia Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located inside the jetty . If you do not check-in at least 60 minutes prior to departure , you will not be allowed on board of our ferry . The Thailand Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located on Koh Lipe . Note that if there are not enough passengers , they could cancel or postpone the trip . By air : Only in-direct commercial flights either by Penang ( <URL> ) , Kuala Lumpur ( Air Asia ) or Singapore ( Air Asia ) . Check <URL> for further details . Easiest is to fly Langkawi-Penang-Phuket but you have to check schedules work out . If you have extra time in Penang , check the trip to Phi Phi or Khao Lak . By <URL> . They operate daily flights between Langkawi and Phuket . They have a little box office at the airport . Flights and office hours are on Mon , Wed , Fri , Sat-Sun . But I 'm not sure how this information is reliable . Please contact them for further info . By land ( public transport ) : Langawi - Satun By <URL> to Satun ( ~ 300THB ) . It takes around 1,5 h. By <URL> ferry to Koh Lipe ( 1200-1400THB ) , from there to Satun Ferry Port - Pakbara Pier ( 600-700THB ) . There are also pre-organised " tour " tickets that would pick you from your guesthouse in Langawi and deliver straight to the centre of Hat Yai ( ~ RM 70.00 ) . In total it takes around 7 hours . Satun - Phuket or Krabi ( by bus ) As <URL> mentioned , there is a air-con bus from Satun 's bus station to Phuket . Tickets are 400 baht ( 230 baht to Krabi ) and the trip takes about 8 hours . Satun 's bus station is a few kilometres south of town , but buses can be flagged down on Burivanich Road as they leave . Read more at <URL> site . Or : Satun - Hat Yai By taxi , motorcycle taxis or small songthaews . By van ( on an hourly basis ) . By local bus . It takes around 3-4 hours in total . You can tell the bus driver where you wanted to get off in Hat Yai and he will try to get you as close as he can . It costs around 80 THB . Hat Yai - Phuket By direct bus ( around 7 hours ) . By train Hat Yai to Surat Thani ( for Ko Samui , Krabi ) . Check <URL> site for trains details . Then road to Phuket . Surat Thani is about 290km from Phuket . This road journey by bus to Phuket from Surat Thani takes about 5-6hrs . By van that goes to Phuket on an hourly basis . By air , check the <URL> site for further details . By land ( by car ) : By ferry to Satun , from there by car or taxi along the coastal ( faster ) or inner road . Along the coastal road , the next major town , after Satun is Trang ( Satun to Trang is about 110kms ) , which is about 320kms ( route distance ) from Phuket . After Trang is another town called Krabi , which is about 90kms from Phuket . There is the alternative of going to Hat Yai from Satun , about 60kms , then taking a domestic flight to Phuket , via Bangkok ; fastest available connecting flights makes this flight journey in about 3 hrs 50 mins ( via TG ) . All other flights e.g. Thai AirAsia , One To Go , Nok Air - also fly into Phuket via Bangkok . ( <URL> ) Ferry map : Note that Langawi local time is 1 hour ahead of Thai time ( GMT +8 ) . See also : <URL> by Tanya <URL> at TripAdvisor
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
18 hrs is doable . Go to Bhubaneswar to catch a flight to New Delhi . From Sambalpur there is train at 0635 hours to Bhubaneswar , takes around 4 hours and 30 minutes . Below is a list of them . It is a busy route , but you will be able to get a reservation easily . Go to <URL> and check the schedules or reserve a ticket . There are regular flights from Bhubaneswar to New Delhi , so flights will not be a problem . To check flights availability use <URL> or <URL> . Or if you do n't like trains , there are night buses which run very frequently from Sambalpur to Bhubaneswar . Check out <URL> . Else you can also go down to the bus station or to any of the agents selling bus tickets , but take a local with you who knows the language ( it is a very distinct version of Oriya which they speak there ) . Hindi will be fine but if somebody knows the local language it will be much better . Or you will be fleeced mercilessly . Pay a little more and take the Volvo bus , if available , as the road might get a bit bumpy at some places but the major part is fine .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
I do n't know exactly what the situation is with businesses in Stockholm , but in Gothenburg ( the 2nd largest city ) , nearly every place will take both card and cash . Some places , generally high-end restaurants , will only take card as payment , and in festivals , street markets and student pubs it could happen that they only accept cash .
The <URL> has some of information in English as well . Unfortunately the page about <URL> is only available in German ( I 'll include the information below ) . Going by car is pretty much impossible . Taxis are of course a different matter and perhaps an option to you . But fortunately , the festival ground is very central and easily reachable via public transportation . The three closest stations ( which are all equipped with elevators ) are : The Hackerbrücke station on the S-Bahn - requires some walking and includes stairs , so not good for you The Goetheplatz station on the subway lines U3 and U6 - again some walking , but on level ground . The Theresienwiese station on the subway lines U4 and U5 - this opens right on the festival grounds ( and thus tends to be very crowded ) - except the elevator is at the opposite end of the station , so it 's about 200m distance . Finding the way is generally easy - just follow the crowds . On the festival itself , accessibility should not be a problem , except of course most rides . But the big ferris wheel can be used with a wheelchair . The beer tents are accessible , and there are at least 20 wheelchair-appropriate seats in each tent , but reserved for wheelchair users only until 14:00 on weekdays and till 17:00 on Saturday , Sunday and holidays ( for the time afterwards you can get a personal reservation , which is really advisable at all times ) . Note that the beer tents are often extremely crowded and hard to get into , especially on weekends and in the evenings . On rainy saturdays , the tents will be full and closed before noon , as people queue up to get in at 10 am and stay until the end at 11 pm . I 'm not sure how severe the situation with the wheelchair places is , but unless the " atmosphere " of 10,000 very drunk people dancing and chanting to a mix of folk and pop tunes is the main attraction to you , I 'd suggest visiting the tents on weekdays at noon , when they 're not crowded and you can have a peaceful lunch . There are wheelchair-appropriate toilets in the larger beer tents , the subway station Theresienwiese and a service center near that station . As for the general atmosphere , it 's very relaxed and friendly . But due to the copious amounts of alcohol that are consumed , brawls do sometimes occur despite the presence of police and security personnel , and they can get pretty nasty when 1 liter glass steins are everywhere . The <URL> : 6.4 million visitors 119 cases of aggravated assault ( the glass steins ) 4 cases of rape 438 cases of theft
One option is to take the train . I 've just looked for a random weekday in September , and there 's basically one train an hour in each direction . It 's direct , and takes just shy of 4 hours . To get train times , your best bet is to use <URL> and search from there . ( Yes , that is the German railways rather than the Italian I 'm suggesting , but they have a better site and can search basically all of Europe ! ) In terms of Cheap , it is n't too bad . It 's about $ 100 return if you book in advance onto specific trains ( Mini ) , rising to about $ 200 for a flexible ticket ( Flessibile ) .
<URL> lists what lines the JR pass is valid for - it includes buses operated by JR , but that 's not all of them , especially not in cities . More importantly , the JR pass is not valid for subway lines in any of the cities you mentioned . In Tokyo at least it can be used for some metropolitan JR lines , most importantly the Yamanote circle line . The rule of thumb is : look up what your long-distance train fares would be if bought directly , and buy a JR pass only if it 's cheaper than those . Local usage is only a small bonus . I 'm not aware of a way for tourists to save much money on local transportation . <URL> may be an option . You may also want to get a <URL> , just for convenience .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
There 's a pretty good <URL> , and from that , it looks like the bus is a viable option : Dublin Airport is only 16 miles away . The airport is serviced by buses ( 41 , 41a , 41b , 41c ) which will take you into the city centre where you can transfer onto a bus to Dun Laoghaire . There is also a service called AirCoach , this service is run on coaches and will deliver you in comfort and speed to selected locations around the city . The Dart is also accessible using the AerDart service which takes you by bus to Killester Dart station . The first <URL> on Sundays leaves from Dublin Airport at 07:15 . How early are you arriving ? From the centre you can then take one of these towards Dun Laoghaire : 7 , 7a , 8 , 45a , 46a , 59 , 75 , 111 Some of these buses start between 7-8 , some only at 09:30 , and some do n't run at all on Sundays . For more details , you could try the <URL> . Regarding the price : from the <URL> site it 's not immediately clear if you can continue on the same ticket when changing to the Dun Laoghaire bus , but looking at the <URL> , it 's going to be quite cheap in every case ( compared to a taxi which would cost around $ 50 ) .
end question
start question
Where to book Indian train tickets online ?
Have a read of the <URL> section of <URL> . It details exactly what you need to do to get an account ( depending on the credit card you plan to use ) , how to get it verified , and then information on booking the tickets . It 's fiddly , takes a couple of days , but I can confirm that it works as I used it last month to book tickets ! ( You 'll end up using the official booking sites , either IRCTC or ClearTrip depending on your credit card , but the process of registering for them as a foreigner without an Indian mobile phone is fiddly so you 'll need to follow the Seat61 advice ! )
Yes , there is , and yes , airlines do have a group discount . This depends on a lot of factors however . I know dive resorts who charter one whole airplane every 5 days since they change the complete occupancy of their quite remote resort each time . You will never know until you ask though since the availability of open seats in regular airplanes is a main driving factor for the price .
Yes , you can buy UK train tickets online with the provision of collecting them at the station . The only problem is that ticket vending machines at stations typically only accept <URL> and thus with your foreign Visa / MasterCard , you may not be able to pick up your tickets unless it 's a chip-and-PIN card . For long-distance journeys , <URL> does has an international delivery option which costs an additional 7.50 GBP ( although if you book early you can also get cheap ' advance ' tickets ) . If you do have a chip-and-PIN card , then sites like thetrainline provide you a unique one-time ID - this , along with your card details allows you to print your tickets out at the station itself . For most short distance journeys , you can buy tickets at the station itself . This is not a problem when the station is staffed ( during work hours ) , but can be when it 's not as you will again find yourself unable to buy from ticket vending machines . You can buy your tickets on the train itself when the guard comes checking tickets , but the portable payment system they use usually does n't support anything other than chip-and-PIN cards . Even with chip-and-PIN cards I have often found payments do not get cleared ( PIN is accepted , but transaction is declined ) so it 's best not to rely on that . In that case you have to make sure you carry enough cash on you before you get on-board a train . You may also be interested in <URL> - you can find how much your savings will be by going to the ' train tickets ' section on most train operators ' websites . As mentioned in a previous answer , you also may find it <URL> .
It depends . If your ticket comes with a seat reservation ( <URL> ) then you do not need to stamp your ticket : just board the train . Shorter range tickets with no seat reservation , on the other hand , must be stamped . Your ticket probably reads <URL> somewhere at the top . Trenitalia personnel typically does n't cut tourists much slack and if " busted " you will be forced to buy a ticket on board with a surcharge . I 've seen plenty of tourists fall for this on the Milan-Bergamo line and it saddens me . If this happens , keep in mind that you 're not being fined . The ticket you bought is still valid ; you 're just buying a new one . You can use that ticket for your return trip ( just make sure you do stamp it next time ! ) Also , try and be honest and avoid getting into arguments . Ticket checkers have no qualms with waking people up and locking yourself up in the bathroom does not really work ( it 's no excuse for not slipping the ticket below the door ) . They can also actually fine you for quite a lot more money than just buying a new ticket with the surcharge ( although I 've never witnessed things degenerate to this level ) , followed by forcing you to step off the train wherever it stops next . Yeah , not fun . When in doubt , stamp the ticket . If it 's a paper ticket , use <URL> typically found at the station entrance ( by ticket sales ) or at the lower end of the stairways up to the tracks . If it 's a magnetic ticket ( ? ) then use the blue machines instead . If all the stamping machines should be broken , or if you just did n't have the time to stamp your ticket , or if you are iffy about the quality of the stamping ( maybe it did n't print very well ? ) what Trenitalia and Trenord personnel have told me to do is to board the train at the head and tell the ticket collector when ( if ) he comes . He should sign off the ticket with no surcharge . I do n't know if this is something official or just an informal convention , but I know it 's worked for me in the past .
No and no . The address on the passport is a convenience , acting as proof of address and so the passport can ( in theory , anyway ) be returned to you if you lose it . It does not have to be up to date . The <URL> does not explicitly state this , but a number of the questions like Q65 say things like " Proof of Present Address ( if address is different from the one mentioned on passport ) " , which clearly implies that it 's OK to have an old address in your passport .
In most cases you can buy tickets before departure . But there can be problems during russian holidays . At least 4 dayly buses are available from different companies . And only one company offers you online booking : <URL>
<URL> . The first one departs from the Belarusian capital at 7:45 a.m. and returns at 18:10 . The second train from Minsk to Vilnius leaves at 18-50 , and comes back at 6:05 . What happens , in most border crossings by train is that there 's a stop on either side of the border , often at an 'em pty ' station . Border guards get on the train , and check your paperwork , as well as issuing you with any other paperwork you may need for entry into Lithuania . Then you carry on to the other side of the border , where a similar process repeats itself . I would suspect that it 's done in Godagai , 10km pre-border , but do n't worry - they 'll explain it , or just make it happen . Neither country is going to let a train-load of passengers cross the border without checking/issuing paperwork ! Sometimes , as in the case when travelling between Poland and the Ukraine , the rail guage is different , so they do the passport stuff while lifting the train and changing the wheels . It 's a very interesting experience . I have n't done that border crossing , but I 've been between Poland and Lithuania , and <URL> , if that 's of any assistance .
I use <URL> to plan my itineraries . The website is a bit more clumsy than Google Maps , but the itineraries and ancillary information are of a better quality . In ViaMichelin you also get maps . An overview maps of the whole trip as well as detailed maps for the different steps . These are the same maps as the Michelin maps you would buy on paper . Compared to Google , it is easier to zoom in and to print a given area . The more difficult part is related to printing . It is hard to fit a whole trip on an A4 page . Even for a smaller trip , such as e.g. Brussels - Frankfurt/Main ( + - 400km ) it is hard to obtain a map that is still useable and readable . Moreover , if you take into consideration the price of colour ink or toner , apparently free maps come at a cost . When it comes to long distance travel , my personal conclusion is that there are no ( free ) online resources , which might be able to compete with traditional maps and atlases . If you do not want to spend too much money on maps and atlases , you can do the following . There are road atlases covering Europe or parts of it . These are updated every year . When the updates are available or about to come out , the " older " ones are sold with huge discounts . These atlases are not " dernier cri " anymore , but remain very accurate and reliable . But , before a trip , you can always cross-check with ViaMichelin or alike . Things are different if you are interested in local information . You can have destinaiton specific resources such as <URL> in the United Kingdom . As suggested in the comments , you might also be able to find free online maps made available by local tourist offices .
When I traveled to Greece 2 years ago I traveled between Athens/Santorini/Mykonos / Ikaria . We bought our tickets when we arrived in Greece . I had the same problem as you , where there was n't a really good website to purchase tickets from in the US , but things may have changed since back then . I did end up use this website <URL> to find out ferry schedules . I just found the sites of two ferries we used a couple times when we were over there . Seems like their websites have improved drastically . <URL> <URL> Take note that some routes are a lot faster than others . This is usually because the boats make more frequent stops or are just faster boats in general . If you do n't book online , there are many travel agencies in Athens and Piraeus that will book tickets for you , you can typically just ask a local where you can buy a ferry ticket . We never ran into a ferry selling out , but of course you may experience something different . With regards to booking deck tickets , it can be cool the first couple of minutes , but can get old very quickly when the water starts splashing around if the water is particularly choppy that day . Also , some ferry decks do not have seating so you have to make yourself comfortable on the deck itself . Also if the sun is out and beating down on you , it can make for a tough trip .
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
" Usual " sales opening To complement other answers , indeed the sales start exactly 90 days in advance on most trains - TGV and Intercités as @audionuma quoted . Be careful though , some trains like regional ones have specific fare policies that include different starting dates , and that depends on each region ( e.g. I tried on the <URL> and I could add a ticket to the cart for a trip in 1 year ) . The price and availability does not vary on these regional trains so no need to book in advance though . However , some products sometimes have different policies on the starting date , in particular iDTGV , Ouigo , TGVs and Intercités . Unusual : TGVs and Intercités for school holidays For the TGVs and Intercités , there are three periods of the year when tickets may be sold earlier : Christmas , winter holidays ( usually in February ) and the summer . If you have a SNCF fidelity card or are a member of Capitaine Train , you shall receive emails warning you in advance of the sales opening for these popular periods . Here I quote an email received on March 28th that sales for the summer ( until August 30th , the last sunday of the summer holiday period ) opened on April 2nd : Pour vous remercier de votre fidélité , nous avons le plaisir de vous informer en avant-première de la prochaine ouverture des ventes de billets de train pour voyager cet été ! Tenez-vous prêt ( e ) ! Le 2 avril dès 6h , TGV et INTERCITÉS ouvrent les ventes pour vos voyages jusqu'au 30 août 2015 en France et quelques destinations en Europe ! I received similar emails for other periods , so in the end the advance booking was available as follows : on November 7th 2014 sales opened until March 9th 2015 on April 2nd 2015 sales opened until August 30th on October 16th 2014 sales opened from December 14th to February 6th These are indicative dates , if you plan on travelling for popular periods and want to take advantage of low prices , you should expect to book around these dates in future years . Unusual : iDTGV and Ouigo For Ouigo , a service intended for low-cost travel , and for iDTGV , another TGV service , the dates are different : on October 1st , 2014 , sales opened for Ouigo until July 6th , 2015 on September 16th , sales opened for iDTGV until March 29th , 2015 So in the end while the common rule is that sales are opened about 3 months in advance , this varies a lot depending on what train you want to take . If you want to travel during school holidays in particular , the sales opening may be earlier ( or later ) than the usual three months . If you want to be notified by email of these sales openings , you can signup for an account at <URL> or <URL> .
There is a <URL> which gives street address and map locations for many of their stops .
There is n't really a definitive answer to this question . It all depends on how many people book for said day , what time of day , and then who books in advance . Personally , I would buy tickets in advance , so that if there was a big queue on the day for the non-advance tickets , I would be fine . Based on the fact that people have only got to scan QR codes in the advance tickets queue , I would say that you 'd be looking at about five seconds per person . With the other queue , it 's probably going to take about 30 seconds or more per group as they decide on tickets and then pay for them . In busy times , you would be much better off going through online booking beforehand . You have said that you would go on a Saturday in non-holiday season , so both queues would be relatively short . Other users have commented queues were empty , and one in chat said it was similar in holiday times . I would advise you to book online in case , but you are probably fine either way .
Here are the options I know of regarding buying train tickets in Indonesia : At a train station . Obviously , this sounds like the best idea , but do n't be fooled , you 're in Indonesia and waiting times can be epic . Give it a try , if the queue is huge , just try another option listed below . At a local supermarket ( Indomaret , Alfamart , or else ) . They almost all do it , &amp; the price is the same as indicated on internet . The only challenge can be the language barrier with the employee , but it 's usually easily overcame . After buying , you have a receipt with a train ticket code to print the train ticket at a machine at the train station . Online . <URL> is the official website of the train network of Indonesia . You can see all the train times , but buying ticket seems difficult ( impossible for foreign bank cards ? ) , although good to have an overview of timetable . <URL> is only in Indonesian I believe , but with Google translate it was easy to use it . <URL> is a reseller of train ticket for Indonesia ( no extra fee ) , when buying , you then have a code to print your ticket at a machine at the train station . <URL> is also in English , just change the language using the relevant link at the bottom of the page . I both bought from <URL> and also from the local supermarkets , both worked very well . Just make sure you arrive a bit in advance at the train station ( maybe 45min ) to print out your ticket without too much stress . See the ticket machine below .
You bring up a good point . Cancellation penalties are so different by property that its hard to really get a cancellation system going that would then allow you to fill rooms at the last minute . With that said though , there are sites like laterooms.com and lastminutetravel.com that you could check . In my travels , I 've found that there is always a room available in any given city , its just that you may pay quite a bit for it :-) . The major hotel booking Web sites usually pull from the same global distribution system , but some of them may have a special deal with specific properties and hence while one site will show sold out another may not . So this means you should try them all . Also , if you know where you want to stay , contact them by phone or e-mail as not all their rooms may be available online . Plus , not all accommodations can be booked online . I 'm an odd traveler as I 'll go to a totally unknown destination without a hotel room reservation . After 107 countries traveled , only once I 've had to pay $ 200/night for a room and that was in Amsterdam after walking around for 3 hours and could not find something that was cheaper and that I liked . I was tired and wet from the rain , so I caved . I hope this helps .
It depends . More englightened companies that care about security , will take your personal details and then pass you on , either to an automated system or another employee who does not have access to your identity , in order to obtain the credit card information .
For domestic flights in the US , the cheapest price is almost always on the airline 's website . Additionally , airlines sometimes include other benefits like additional frequent flyer miles , reduced baggage fees etc. for booking directly through their site . Online travel agents such as Expedia , Travelocity , Orbitz etc. can sometimes find flight combinations that you can not book directly through a single airline . This can be useful when there is no single airline ( or airline alliance ) that serves your route . This is not common for domestic trips , but can happen sometimes for international flights between more minor destinations . There is also the convenience of using a single site with all your information already stored instead of having to navigate a different a airline site every time you make a reservation . This can be especially useful for foreign airline websites which are sometimes more difficult to use and can be troublesome with foreign credit cards . Finally , if you book through an online travel site , they become your " agent " and can take care of things such as cancellations , schedule changes etc. . You might find it more convenient to speak to an English speaking customer service agent on a 1-800 number than calling a foreign airline which may not have a toll-free number or even a number at all in the USA .
Ok , the comments have given a suggestion about booking another berth , which is impractical if you are concerned that the baby may actually roll over . Some practical tips to consider You can either book a first class or a 2-tier AC berth ( if you are travelling 3 tier AC already and are considering a second ticket for the kid , it may work out cheaper to do this ) , and ensure that you get a lower berth ( which is tough unless you book early ) , the berth in a 2-tier AC or First AC or First Class compartments are much wider than the one in other classes and can give enough room for the kid If you really want this substantiated you can see ( <URL> ) which has pictures and detailed measurements . If you like to be a bit bold and can convince co-passenger the way I did with a year old daughter you can look to replicate what I did . I used to make a cradle in between the seats , I will have to draw up something to explain ( and kindly forgive my horrible drawing ) , you tie a sufficiently long piece of cloth i.e. a saree or something that 's circa 2 metres long and tie it up to the top berth , since the train only shakes sideways this would actually provide a very comfortable journey to the kid ( if he is used to sleeping in those age old cradles made with a similar style at home it would be even better ) . <URL> The third option is to get two lower berths and actually carry a small flat cradle into the compartment and make the baby sleep in it , like this : <URL> I have only thought about this never did this for my travels . Happy sleeping
For EN 446 , no It 's a night train and they do not want people to get on in Potsdam . <URL> , and they responded . ( I had a typo in the train-number . ) <URL> Here 's a free translation to English : Me : Why ca n't I book EC446 from Cologne to Frankfurt/Oder online although it stops there ? DB : Do you mean EN 446 ? In Potsdam we do n't plan for people to get on , only off . That 's why this station can not be booked . Me : Yes , that one . Can I book from Frankfurt and get on in Potsdam anyway ? DB : No , because in Potsdam only deboardings are planned , not boardings ;-) Me : Are there bouncers ? Can I get on later in regular ICE trains ? For example if I have a ticket from Berlin to Cologne , can I get on in Spandau or Wolfsburg ? DB : Our people are on the platform . Of course you can get on later , but remember that seat reservations are forfeit after 15 minutes . So we can conclude that on this particular train , you can not do that . We do n't know why exactly , but if you try anyway and they catch you , they might not let you in . In general , yes You can always leave early or get on late in regular trains . Your tickets with Deutsche Bahn give you the right to be on the train ( or any train on a direct route ) between two stations . They frequently do not check tickets between two or more given stations . There is no way for the conductor to tell if you sat there for one station , two stations or longer if they are passing through the carriage for the first time to check tickets after the fourth station . It can also happen that you get never checked because you got on at the other end of the train and get off at the next station while they are still busy somewhere else . The above Twitter conversation confirms this personal experience . Bonus-Information : If that happens and your printed ticket does not get checked/clipped your City-Ticket in the destination might not be valid . You need to go get it stamped at the information desk in the destination station or local public transport might fine you for not having a ticket .
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
end question
start question
During a French TGV strike , must I go to the station to get a full refund for my ticket ?
According to the <URL> of SNCF , you can ask a refund via post : To obtain a refund write to : Service relations clients SNCF 62973 Arras cedex 09 FRANCE It specifies that you need to send : the original tickets if you have received them your booking reference your full contact details ( full name , address and phone number ) Note that I have n't actually tried this .
Generally speaking , no , that 's not allowed . The relevant Schengen regulation does leave the door open in special circumstances , but that 's not how French consulates traditionally work . You have to apply to the consulate serving your place of residence and can not simply choose one that 's convenient for you , even in the same country . However , it does not hurt to ask , either by trying to contact the NYC consulate directly or by lodging an application at another consulate , explaining why you do that ( you can write a short letter to join to your application ) . Since it 's a reasonable reason and it 's out of your control , they might agree to see it as a valid justification to apply article 6 ( 2 ) of the Schengen visa code but it 's really up to them ( see also <URL> and <URL> ) . Some practical tips : Always be congenial and to-the-point in your communication , do not suggest you feel entitled to something or get angry -- even if you have good reasons to ! -- but stand your ground and do n't be obsequious either and you might get lucky . But it 's a long shot .
Can you go to the US as a tourist - yes , Will the past cause any problems - likely . Your early refused entry will be in the system and likely the CBP agent will see it on their screen when you are processed . You can expect a longer round of questions and probably secondary questioning ( ie away from the initial counter ) . But assuming you did n't make a scene at your earlier refusal and the reason was as innocent as paperwork not being in place , then they may well let you visit . But really it is up to the agent processing you , no guarantees .
He will go through immigration in Heathrow anyway . Nobody will stop him from going through customs without his checked baggage . After coffee , he 'll have to go through security to get to the gate , using his boarding pass , and will go through customs again , but not immigration , on arrival in Scotland . I 've done this many times , both as the traveler and as the coffee companion .
Given that <URL> I 'd say that it would be perfectly legal for you to wear one on the plane regardless of which class you 're flying in . Worst case scenario you 'll get some looks from other passengers . Go ahead and fly comfortable .
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
There is absolutely no problem with your wife following you in . It is normal when families are renting trucks and the weight inspectors and state troopers are well aware of it . The good news is the process is simple - just roll over a road , follow the stop sign and be on your way . You might be asked ( should you be over the weight ) if you are carrying household goods/personal items and then be politely nodded along . From my experience , Texas is especially strict about weight stations - but your mileage may vary :) depending on the inspector on duty . Good luck and have a safe trip !
Technically you could claim a Sales Tax Refund from New York State . To do that you need to fill out <URL> form in which you can claim refund for goods you are taking out of state . And mail it to the state . Problem is that under NY law you likely wo n't qualify for a refund and on top of this they can only return NY State Portion which is 4 % . So if you want the hassle over $ 4 then by all means .
I do not think that you have any reason to worry . Remember that each country sets its own criteria for visa issuance , and that the criteria are different for different types of visas . France is not part of the United States , and will not be concerned with whether you qualify for the B1/B2 visa . It will be sufficient for them that you have it . Because visitor visas have different requirements than student visas , it 's unlikely that anyone at the French consulate could even guess whether you continue to qualify for the US visitor visa , given that your application to them should be designed to show you meet the requirements for a student visa . There is one thing though . If , while processing your visa application , France determines that you are wanted in the US for a crime , they might notify the US of your location . ( And most likely refuse your visa . )
I checked the website from the <URL> , ( <URL> ) , there is no vaccination needed for that . ( As far as I know , only children get vaccinated for that ) . Check that website , it has a ton of information on the vaccination subject . The vaccinations are not that great anyway ( in the way that they protect you entirely ) . Meningitis can be caused by a virus or a bacteria ( and a parasite or fungus ) and there are over a 100 bacteria/virus strains that can cause it , the vaccinations only protect for a small number of these .
Going with a cruise line is an exception to the rule that you need a visa . Basically , Russia uses the visa requirement to control the inflow of visitors . But if you are with a cruise line that has ALREADY submitted to Russian controls , you are effectively " controlled . " The cruise line will only organize tours/excursions approved by the Russian government , using guides licensed by it . That , and not the " international accommodation " , is the reason for the waiver . When leaving the ship , you will need to show your passport and have it stamped at the custom house . They will then give you a pass that is valid only for that ONE excursion . Needless to say , you have to come back with the rest of the group , and not go out on your own . If you lose your pass , there is a fine . I believe it 's $ 50 . If you stay on board the ship the whole time , none of this applies . Then the " international accommodation " part holds . But if you go on your own ( not a ship sponsored tour ) , then you need a visa .
The easiest way to answer this is to check the Transport for London <URL> , this will show the various ways you can get there and also highlight any ( planned ) closures , construction , etc. . Running Gatwick to London Bridge through that it suggests : 17 mins ( national-rail ) Southern to East Croydon Rail Station 19 mins ( national-rail ) Southern to London Bridge Rail Station or 46 mins ( national-rail ) Thameslink to Blackfriars Rail Station 4 mins ( tube ) District line or Circle line to Monument Underground Station Disruption : Part Closure 4 mins ( walking ) Walk to Bank 1 min ( tube ) Northern line to London Bridge Underground Station There 's also the <URL> which goes from Gatwick to Victoria ( faster but more expensive ) . There are various ways to go from Victoria to London Bridge . I think there is also a direct Southern train between Gatwick and London Bridge but it 's not showing up in the search . But just to double check the construction , you can check the <URL> page , the key point : How your travel could be affected London Bridge National Rail station will remain open and London Bridge Tube station will operate as normal throughout the rebuild . However London Overground , Southern , Thameslink and Southeastern passengers will be affected by the improvement plans at certain times up to 2018 . As a result , some services and stations on the Tube , London Overground and National Rail networks will be busier than usual as National Rail customers use alternative routes to complete their journeys . The next period of major changes to services is from January 2015 continuing to August 2016 . From Monday 5 January 2015 , Southern services will start to operate to and from London Bridge again , with a new timetable across the Southern network . Thameslink trains will run a limited service to and from London Bridge until January 2018 . From 12 January 2015 to August 2016 , all Southeastern services to and from Charing Cross will not call at London Bridge . That should n't impact the journeys above ( apart from the limited service on Thameslink ) . However , the <URL> also says : London Bridge : Southern and Network Rail apologise for the disruption and delays at London Bridge recently . The new track layout on the approach to the station has meant that so far , it has been a challenge to deliver the new timetable . We have reviewed this and made some changes to a small number of evening peak services to help us to deliver an improved service for you . We will be monitoring the service at London Bridge and assess if any long term changes to train services are required . So it 's definitely going to be worth double checking things closer to the ( via the links above or listen to the announcements , read the info boards and ask the station staff ) . There are also <URL> , but none get you much closer than the train .
It 's simply a " sniffing " device . You could say it " smells " for molecules of things such as explosives . <URL> <URL> There are a number of different varieties . Some have a throw away " swab " or thing that looks like a " piece of tape " on the end . In that case the swab is used once and thrown away . And the plastic stick is nothing more than a $ 2 plastic stick . Other devices are fixed and can be used more than once . The whole thing is usually just called a " swab " " chemical swab " " explosive swab " or the like . So you might say " they ran the explosive swabber over me at security , " or " they swabbed me with the explosive thingy at security , " or whatever . They might run it over you or maybe both you and your hand bags . It 's completely commonplace . These things are everywhere . I 've had it done say 25 % of the time I 've walked through a security ( whether at airports or elsewhere ) . I 've never had a ( false ! ) positive hit . ( I 'm surprised the OP mentions that it has not happened often to the OP - probably just a coincidence . ) Here 's the TSA explaining it in the USA case ... <URL> Notice it 's generally referred to as " swabbing , " " swabbed " . It looks like ( in the US ) this practice started heavily at airports in about twenty years ago ( 2010ish ) , here 's a video of it being done in a CNN article when the thing was news ... <URL> Note that the " insider " term for the technology seems to be " ETD " . Here 's one of the main manufacturers . You can buy some swabs from them if you want . <URL> Notice that all these systems are just profit centers set up by companies with government lobbying power , to make sales . ( I 'm not saying there is n't coincidentally societal advantage , but that 's the reason the system exists . ) The " ETD " thing works well for them because they get to sell BOTH the expensive device , AND the disposable swabs on an ongoing manner ( it 's like having a government contract for both razors and the blades ! ) A company will budget a certain amount of money , $ 20m , whatever , to use a lobbying company in the US Congress to push through regulations , on some level , so that devices like this have to be bought ; then in practice only a tiny number of companies can jump through the hoops to be suppliers . So as long as they can get return on the lobbying consultancy spend , it 's a winner . Job creation ! Here 's a large French company which is a competitor , Safran <URL> ( Those guys make everything for slaughtering/protecting people from rockets down to the swabs we are discussing . ) PS in answer to one of your literal questions , these things search for molecules , and have absolutely no connection in any way to radiation as such . If you think about it " detecting molecules in the air " is , in a sense , the same as " smelling " ... for that reason these things are indeed called " sniffers " or " explosive sniffers " or similar words in other languages . ( Note that radiation detectors for security points is an entirely and totally different technology . Indeed , it is the current thing that the lobbying consultancies are pushing through , these will soon be everywhere as well . )
No , you do n't need a visa to visit the US . A French citizen can visit for 90 days for business or leisure without obtaining a visa . What you need is a travel authorization ( " ESTA " ) , that you can apply for online . You can apply at the <URL> . There is a $ 14 fee .
There is <URL> related to various topics like Ataturk , Islam , etc. . Apparently there have been additional censorship and limiting of access to social networks as Twitter and Facebook but people have gotten around that too according <URL> and <URL> .
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
You can check public transport on site <URL> I made a <URL> to your connection ; you can change the time , date and places of start and end ( by right-click ) . It 's very important wheter your journey will be at weekend or on a workday . At workdays buses and trams runs more often . Anyway , I think that in your case a taxi is the only reasonable and safe solution , because the amount of time is too little to travel by public transport . It would take about 40 mins and you need time to find your bus stop , find platform on railway station etc. . Obviously you can book the taxi in advance . In Poland such companies are usually called " ( Something ) Radio Taxi " , so you can just Google it searching for Radio Taxi Gdańsk . Examples ( with websites in English ) : <URL> <URL>
You can do so at the <URL> , but you will get the money back immediately only if there is less than 500 HKD on the card and the card is not damaged . There are several such <URL> : At the airport , the Customer Service Centres can be found in the " buffer halls " , after baggage reclaim and before entering the arrival hall , also in the arrival hall areas A &amp; B and on the Airport Express departure platform ( Terminal 1 ) and arrival platform ( Terminal 2 side ) . The first one mentioned is when you arrive and likely the best to get a new card on arrival by airplane in HKG . There are some counters after the customs control where you can book hotels before you meet people waiting for you outside . The second one mentioned are in the huge arrival hall where you will find tons of restaurants , people waiting etc. . I do not recommend this one since the hall is really too big to find something here , specially if you are carrying luggage around with you . The last one are located where you will need them when you leave HKG , you will see them just when you step out of the train .
Yes , you can leave the station . The period of validity is said to be two days on their official embassy sites in both the US and <URL> , so you should be okay leaving the next day . <URL>
There 's a great <URL> on this very topic . But yes , as far as your backpack goes , most backpacks seem to have raincovers these days . I also carry an emergency poncho for myself , although I 've only ever used one once ( Iguazu Falls ) . In addition you can wrap your clothes in plastic bags INSIDE your backpack . Do n't forget to double bag your electronics . Clothes can dry , not all electronics can . You can also put plastic bags around your shoes , if it 's really wet , but you may find it hard to walk in them . Best answer is to seek shelter as soon as possible , and then do what the locals do .
end question
start question
Can one tour a cruise ship in Sydney ?
Security rules prohibit casual visitors entering a cruise ship while in port , for same security reasons that keep folks from wandering into an aircraft parked at an airport . But as always there are exceptions ... Travel agents can pre-arrange to inspect a ship when it is in port , but this comes with strings attached , such as the volume of business your agency has sent to that cruise line , being escorted around the ship by a crew member , restrictions as to which ports this is possible , etc Some cruise lines and/or ports allow family members onboard during initial boarding at the port of embarkation . But not usually at stops during the cruise .
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
When I had a week ( about 7 years ago ) we decided it was n't going to possible to see " the key sites " in such a short time . So we took 2 days in Paris , 4 days outside , and then the last day back in Paris . The 4 days outside had a single theme . For us it was the Loire Valley and the <URL> . You might choose a specific wine region , or the Mediterranean beaches , or the Alps , or whatever . We saw the Louvre , the Eiffel Tower , the Champs Elysees and so on in Paris , took the train to Nantes , drove back up the Loire Valley seeing chateaux , eating , drinking and really soaking everything in until we reached Chartres , spent a day there , then the train back into Paris ( DO NOT DRIVE IN PARIS ) and enjoyed some more sightseeing there and headed home . Think of the one non-Paris thing you 'd like to focus on , and build a trip around that . I think you 'll find it super memorable . If you are n't sure , look into the Loire ... we sure liked it !
You can go by public buses to Port of Miami . I can not give you specific details since I do not know from where you will take the bus . <URL> will offer a great help . Please note if you take a bus you will have to walk from the bus station to the terminal which is a ~ 10 minutes walk . It is advised to go by car and get dropped off at the terminal . You need to reach the terminal minimum of 2 hours in advance , as mentioned in the <URL> . Anyway different cruise companies have different rules : Passengers should arrive at least two hours prior to departure . Check with your cruise line for the latest embarkation/debarkation information . Security procedures , prohibitions and documentation requirements vary by cruise line or destination . Contact your cruise line for details about the specific requirements and restrictions for your itinerary . Regarding pre-boarding and luggage procedures , since you will pass a TSA check as mentioned in the official website then you will pass a metal detector and your luggage will pass X-ray scanners just like any airport .
While I 'm not in Tbilisi myself , my wife and children are at present in Georgia , having been in Tbilisi during the flood and the following week , although they now went to the summer house in the mountains . I have been speaking with them almost daily - so this is almost a first person account . Severe flooding did occur a couple of weeks ago in Tbilisi , resulting in both human and animal deaths and many injuries and physical losses . The long-term effect of it though is n't that great , from what I understand . The only long term " damage " as far as the tourism is concerned is the zoo . It was all but wiped out by the floods . It 's not open to the public at present . Other than that , the city continues operating just as it did before . There 's water , electricity and gas ; telephone network and internet are fine ; public transport runs fine ; all shops , restaurants , etc. are open ; museums are open according to their normal summer opening hours . Public paths along Kura are open , however parts of them are rather wet from rains that took place over the last week or so . Naturally , the aftermath is still visible in Mziuri park and the Heroes Square , as well as throughout the city , but all these places are open to the public . So , all in all , it 's still a great place to visit . I myself will be flying there at the end of July - but I have family there , so floods or no floods , I 'd have to go . If you 're interested in any specific venue or place , it should be easy to find that out .
Yes , at T1 ( International Terminal ) and T2 ( Domestic Terminal ) . I was there in 2011 but ca n't remember the details ( except that I did use internet connection at the airport ) . Anyway , <URL> is a good memory aid , and several tips from 2011 and 2012 say there 's indeed wifi available . <URL> : Free wifi all over with the " FREE WIFI BY EXPEDIA SYD " network . Just choose a destination and flight number . <URL> : You get free and fast wifi here ! <URL> : Free wifi in the international terminal ( T1 ) <URL> : Aquí el wifi gratis funciona !!! Update : The <URL> also confirms this : Free Wi-Fi is available throughout International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) . Sydney Airport now provides free Wi-Fi for all travellers at both the Domestic ( T2 ) and International ( T1 ) Terminals . You can use any Wi-Fi enabled device to connect including your laptop , smartphone or tablet . Simply select " Free Internet by sponsors name &amp; SYD " from the list of available networks , answer the questions , read the terms and conditions and click " Proceed " . You will be shown a sponsored message then directed to a website . From there you can browse the internet for up to 2 hours and 500MB of data . Coverage is provided throughout the entire International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) .
Taking rental cars across European borders is not particularly difficult . You do need to check with the agency exactly what they allow . Cars are typically approved in the whole EU and private insurance also covers many countries but rental agencies have additional restrictions ( e.g. higher-end cars often can not be taken to Eastern Europe ) and might require you to inform them in advance and to get some extra insurance . One-way cross-border car hire ( picking up a car in one country and dropping it off in another one ) is also possible with major international brands but there is obviously a ( usually steep ) surcharge and , again , a different list of allowed countries for each brand and each country ( it does not always go in both directions ; for example it 's possible that a given agency allows French-registered cars to go to Germany but not German-registered cars to go to France ) . In all the countries you mentioned , getting across the border itself is really easy . In the Schengen area or in the Common Travel Area , you will just drive through without noticing , with little more than a sign marking the border . " <URL> " by Oliver Dixon . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons . Border between France and Belgium , seen from the Belgian side Between the British Isles and the continent , you will have line up for a passport check , without even leaving your car , for example when driving out of the ferry . It 's more than 10 years since I last did it with a car , as far as I remember , border guards do n't care about vehicles at all ( no need to show the registration or prove you have insurance ) , they just want to make sure the passengers have appropriate documentation . " <URL> " by © Raimond Spekking / CC BY-SA 4.0 ( via Wikimedia Commons ) . Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons . ( That 's in France , so you get cleared for entry into the UK before even getting on the ferry ) . One issue is that it might be required to adjust your headlights when driving on the other side of the road but , in my experience , this is not enforced at the border and some French car hire agencies definitely allow you to take their cars to the UK . Note that in Paris , London , Amsterdam or even Dublin a car is more an encumbrance than anything . So if you do n't want to bother with all the issues I mentioned and save some money , you might just as well rent a different car in each country to explore the countryside and return it before visiting the cities themselves . Petrol is expensive in Europe so for one or two people , traveling by train or plane between the different cities in your itinerary will often be cheaper ( for a family of four , road travel can be cheaper ) .
October in Japan is going to be a lot like October in Europe and America , namely autumn . In Tokyo , <URL> , mostly clear skies but occasional rain , beautiful autumn foliage . Personally , late September/early October is one of my favorite seasons to be in Japan , second only to cherry blossom season around April . Not too hot , not too cold , and off-peak so not too many tourists . But if you 're expecting beach weather , then sorry , you 'll only find that at the southernmost tip around Okinawa ... and since Japan is a long and skinny country , there might already be a dusting of snow up in northern Hokkaido . There 's one catch though : October is the tail end of typhoon season in Japan , which could make a cruise pretty unpleasant ( and explains the high precipitation readings on the chart linked to above ) . However , the peak is Aug-Sep and the typhoons usually hit the Pacific side of the islands , not the Japan Sea side you 'll presumably be sailing on , so odds are pretty high you 'll be OK .
Now that we 've cleared up the fact that the document is a work permit , I 'll assume it 's an I-766 Employment Authorization Document ( <URL> indicate that the card itself says " Employment Authorization Card , " and that the indication " Form I-766 " is found on the back of the card ) . According to the TSA , this document can be used to board a flight . The list is at <URL> , and the last entry , as of this writing , is Immigration and Naturalization Service Employment Authorization Card ( I-766 )
Yes , there is ! And it 's well worth doing ! Almost all the commercial river tours leave from the piers at Landungsbrucken , which is on the S-Bahn just south of the city centre . Also leaving from there are a number of <URL> that are part of the <URL> , which accept normal HVV tickets including <URL> : The quieter option is to take the 72 or 73 boats , which leave from the east end of the Landungsbrucken piers , which take you a short way across the river . If you 're in a hurry , these are the ones to go for If you have more time , head to pier 1 and pick up the 62 ferry . On weekends , just look for the huge scrum , as there 's no proper queues ... Ferries are roughly every 15 minutes , so it 's not the end of the world if you miss the first one . The 62 ferry takes about half an hour to make its way west along the river , giving stunning views ( especially from the open air top deck ) of the city , the city beaches , the port it . It runs to Finkenweder , which is a small area of the city just to the south west . From Finkenweder , you can just stay on the 62 ferry , and ride it back to the city . This round trip takes about an hour . Or , if you have a little longer , get off and change onto the 64 ferry . This short trip takes you back to the north side of the river at Teufelsbruk . From there , you can either catch a bus to town , or enjoy a nice 15-20 minute walk through parks to reach the s-bahn at Klein Flottbek ( the Botanical Garden ) . The <URL> also gives a good idea of the routes and connections available .
The cruise line are obviously concerned they may not have the expertise required in the event of an emergency and may incur liability for the health of your child . There are usually ways round this - such as higher insurance cover etc. , but in the first instance you should definitely speak to the embassy , yes - they may be able to offer guidance or a preferred option .
We do it from Peru side . You have to go to <URL> port and buy one of the excursions they sell that could be just for a lake trip or you can stay one night with a family in Taquile or Amantani islands . That option is very recommendable . You also have the option to talk with a fisherman and negotiate a better price , but my advice is to buy a tourist excursion , because it 's not expensive and nobody there speaks English so you may end up visiting a beach or going to Bolivia because of a misspelling . " Can I see anything special ? " You will see how these people live every day without electricity and some other comforts of modern life .
I found <URL> was quite useful for finding different tours from non main stream companies as well as all the regulars . You can choose tours that go through a specific country or ones based in just the country you select . There are also plenty of options to weed out those that are n't suitable , such as age , duration , price , trip type , group size , dates and operators .
First , I 'm going to offer a generic solution that I still think will solve your problem . There are a couple of paid services , <URL> and <URL> ( there 's a referral link in my profile ) . You pay a small amount , set a price you want to beat , and their experts will find you something cheaper . If they ca n't , you lose nothing ( I 've had them fail once and I got my money back ) . But they 've also saved me tons . ( disclaimer , I sometimes compete on their site as one of the experts ) . Secondly , and this will actually address the issue with one-way flights in South America - it 's worth noting that it 's fairly common in South America to find return flights for far less than one-way flights . My friend , flying from La Paz ( Bolivia ) to Santiago de Chile was going to buy a one-way , then saw the price of a return was about half . So he bought the return and just did n't use the second segment . So yes , you can do that . Check if it 's possible to cancel the return leg for a refund , although I suspect that 's unlikely - but at the least , it 's still cheaper than the one-way ;)
Depending on the country , a box sent through the regular mail service works fine . We had to do that when on vacation in the US , to ship back items to France since we also knew that these would not fit inside our suitcases . UPS asked us $ 150 . USPS did it for $ 40 . If you ask DHL , FedEx which are in the premium range , it can be expensive . Also , during another earlier trip , we simply bought an extra suitcase before heading home . If you expect to have " leftover " baggage allowance at your airline , this can be the solution . It costs you the price of the newly acquired piece of luggage , which can be reused later . Anyway , take note of the restrictions of the local post system . For instance , USPS does not allow shipping batteries ... thus disqualifying all tech items like cell phones , tablets , cameras .
<URL> , China on the left , Japan on the right : <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> Here 's some other links with overviews and details : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Oh and I almost forgot my favourite ! If by " mainland Asia " you want to include Siberia , <URL> !
Short answer , yes , there seem to be . A quick google search for ' private tour guide china ' or ' personal tour guide services china ' will reveal several , look at the adverts on the right of your results page . However , for specific examples of private tours , something like <URL> might be what you 're after - they have organised tours , but also state : we 'll be glad to Customize a private china tours for you according to your requirements and interests ( grammatical issues are theirs ) . They have a live chat where you could quickly find out what they offer . I 'm not sure how much you 've travelled , but I have several friends who have been to China , and only two used tours - the others self-explored , with no big problems . Sure there were language barriers , but that 's often half the fun . Especially in the cities , you 'll be surprised sometimes at how often someone speaks English . Or if you just learn some basic words before you go - bus station , please/thanks and the like , you find yourself with a lot more confidence . However , I can totally understand that that 's not for everyone , I just wanted to let you know that it is possible . Good luck , and enjoy !
No , you ca n't . It 's a very , very busy working port , full of reversing trucks and cranes flinging about multi-ton containers , many of which contain valuable and/or hazardous cargo . Short of getting a job , the <URL> is to apply for a Temporary Pass , which requires a good reason and a company already operating in the port to sponsor you . But if you want to get close , you can go for lunch or a drink at the <URL> , which is ( partly ) open to non-members and is located right next to the Pasir Panjang bit of the port . Alternatively , take a bumboat cruise from Marina South , although I 'm not entirely sure these are still operating now that they 're building the new cruise centre there . Most tall buildings nearby will also have good views of the Keppel Terminal , although there 's no public observation deck or anything ; nobody will stop you from going up into the HDB ( public housing ) buildings at Spottiswoode Park though . The best way overall , though , is to watch <URL> on YouTube .
Obviously it 'll depend on the time of year , but my feeling in Marrakech was that something would ' appear ' if you needed it , they were always keen to make some cash . We did n't have time for the desert tours , but hoped to do a day tour to a nearby river valley . Lo and behold our Riad owner suddenly had a friend running a tour , and indeed came along himself . This was in November , however , and seasonal variations will occur in demand . We ca n't possibly be certain , but you could consider hopping on forums like the Lonely Planet and seeing if anyone else is looking for a tour too . Or ask your Riad to ask other guests in advance . Otherwise , there 's still PLENTY to do in and around Marrakech .
They include what is says in the description and rarely more . Each offering is different , so there is no general answer to your title question . When booking with Expedia , make sure to open the details page , it always has additional information and frequently additional options such as including meals , larger or better placed rooms , etc. . Some vacations even include a rental car but you can always count on flight plus hotel , and almost always transport from the airport to your hotel and back at the destination . Expedia has the custom vacation option which lets you choose components and add them together with a discount . For that choose ' Build Your Own ' under vacation packages . Tours are available to for some destinations . While I understand the piece of mind of booking all at once , there is little risk booking the tour at the destination and it is highly advantageous . You will often be able to get a better price and considerably more options to tailor your experience . Even just being able to book after knowing the weather more accurately can save you from taking a tour in pouring rain .
end question
start question
Does the cartography workshop where Christopher Columbus lived in Lisbon still exist ?
All the life of Christopher Columbus has a lot of mystery around . It 's not even very clear , during the time he was in Portugal , how long he lived in Lisbon . Some authors claim he lived longer in Porto Santo , in Madeira . It 's though ( sort of ) clear that he lived and learned cartography , astronomy and some cosmology in Lisbon . It 's not very clear with whom though . Lisbon back than was one of the most advanced centers of cartography , astronomy and cosmology . Many people dedicated themselves to the study of these subjects . This makes it dificult to pinpoint a tutor/place . There are however two main theories . He either learned with his brother , that also lived in Lisbon or very likely in " Estudos Gerais de Lisboa " . " Estudos gerais de Lisboa " is currently " Universidade de Coimbra " one of the oldest universities in the world still active . This university started first in Lisbon and was after transferred to Coimbra . According to their history , their initial facilities , in Lisbon , were around " Largo do Carmo " . The initial university was in the place where today you can find Valadares Palace . Before settling in Coimbra , the university moved several times between the two cities . This palace/building was restructured and rebuilt many times . One of the last rebuilt was done from the ground and happened after the great 1755 earthquake . Long after Columbus lived in Lisbon . There is still another possibility . The university grew and a new pole was created in Lisbon around " Patio dos quintalinhos " . This place is actually in Alfama where Christopher Columbus allegedly lived . This area was not destroyed in the earthquake . I googled a bit and unfortunately although I could find some connection between Christopher Columbus and this building no reference was made to rooms where he could have studied . From the original building where the school was only a very small part exists . So , concluding : this place , unfortunately , probably does n't exist anymore . As an extra note : there are also many doubts about how much time he spent in Porto Santo ( Madeira archipelago ) , <URL> .
You have several choices : You currently have subway from the airport which will make life easier . But still , depending on the time you arrive to Lisbon and how old the kids are I would or not risk go downtown . The subway can be very crowded at rush hour . If you have a stroller I would only consider it if it 's not rush hour . People are kind and will almost for sure help , but it can be painful and you have to change at least once . Options Go to " <URL> " . It 's not a historically iconic part of the city but it 's 3 subway stations away from the airport . It ´ s a new and nice area , built specially for Expo 98 , with lot 's of gardens , Ocenario , a cable car , several restaurants , near to Tagus river . You can either walk a bit , use the cable car and enjoy the scenary or just relax in one of the gardens or a cafe . You can go to " Parque das Nações " and visit <URL> ( <URL> ) . It 's worth it and kids love it . ( Ocenário is the biggest aquarium in Europe and the second in the World ) . Go downtown ( Option 1 ) . It 's a bit more tricky . You have change once between subway lines and it will take you aprox 30 min . You can get out in Rossio and walk to Terreiro do Paço . There you will be able to see the castle ( in the Hill ) , see Lisbon architecture and urbanism ( this area was built by Marques de Pombal , after the 1775 earthquake ) . Go dowtown ( option 2 ) . Get out in Rossio and find " <URL> " You get the tram here and go up the hill . When you arrive you will be near " <URL> " one of the typical neighbourhoods of Lisbon and " <URL> " with a <URL> over Lisbon and to the Castle . Go downtown ( option 3 ) . Instead of going to to Rossio go do " Marquês " by subway ( again , it will take you aprox 30 min . to arrive ) . From there you can walk down " Avenida da Liberdade " to Rossio . If you look back when starting , you will see the beautifull " <URL> " . Avenida da Liberdade is considered one of the most luxurious avenues in the world . When arriving to Rossio do n't forget to drink the :) world famous " <URL> " . Near by you can find " <URL> " , currently an association and a restaurant . Before a Palace . You can go in a see the architecture . It 's a very beautifull and unexpected place ( nice for a quick visit ) . If you just want to relax a bit and get away from the aiport you can do it also in " <URL> " . It 's easy to arrive by subway and you can do a bit of tourism sitted in a garden bench . It has a playground with swings for kids . It 's not an amazing " must visit " area . It 's just nice to relax for a while and it has its part of history . Alameda was built during " <URL> " when there was a dictatorship in Portugal . In one side you can see " fonte luminosa " an imponent fountain ( recently repaired ) . In the other side there is " Técnico " one of the best portuguese universities . There is also a Theater in the middle called " Império " ( Empire - iconic name , like the architecture of the fountain , to show Portugal a great country - regime propaganda ) . Currently " Imperio " is a church from " Igreja Universal do Reino de Deus " . These are all built with the same kind of architecture . ( Note : if you want to eat , I would advise you to visit " Cervejaria Imperio " under the Theater . It used to have one of the best stakes of Lisbon . It 's not what it used to be but it 's still a very nice place to go and not expensive if you have the buffet lunch . ) Another alternative may be going to " <URL> " It 's a small farm in the city with several farm animals ( horses , donkeys , sheep , chickens , etc ) specially made for kids . They often have activities like baking bread , etc. ( but you have to enroll for these ) . It 's a nice place , it 's free ( you can just walk in ) and it 's near the airport ( you can get there by <URL> also , it 's 4 stations away from the airport ) . It 's usually open from 10h to 19h except monday ( closed ) . Additional Resources <URL> of the Lisbon subway system . You can easily find the metioned stations above . For a quick reference : Aeroporto in the red line is the airport station . Baixa-chiado or Rossio gives you direct access down-town . Terreiro do Passo also leaves you downtown and near the river .
The general rule for customs in the EU is that you 're only customs processed at your final destination -- except if you leave the airport terminal at an earlier transfer point . Usually customs will be located right after the baggage reclaim at the destination airport , and there will be signs directing you to choose between green lane ( nothing to declare ) , red lane ( something to declare ) , and blue lane ( nothing to declare because your entire journey was within the EU ) . ( If you leave the terminal in Spain and have baggage checked through to France , you 'll have to behave as if arriving internationally at both airports . Hold on to whatever documentation you get from Spanish customs , so you can convince French customs that the animals and your cabin luggage was already in the EU ! ) I 'm assuming that you have researched what you 're doing properly and that your only worry really is to get in touch with customs at the right time and place . If not , beware that traveling across borders with live animals can involve significantly more involved and restrictive rules than moving either persons or goods across the same borders , for veterinary safety reasons . Even when transporting animals between different EU/Schengen states , there are restrictions that must be observed . In particular , just because your destination airport has customs processing does n't necessarily mean it 's equipped to do veterinary border checks ( which you may or may not need based on the species of the animals and other factors ) . Be sure to do your homework in advance . For completeness , immigration checks are different from customs and happens at your first landing in the Schengen area ( with variations possible if your itinerary involves both Schengen and non-Schengen Europe ) .
Yes you can . There are still some in Taipei . <URL> is one of the chains . You can pick the movie you want from the shelf ( they 're all legit copies , btw ) , then check out and pick a room . You can also order food from them for you to enjoy . Just FYI , it 's popular among teenagers because of the private suites ... and you could guess what they might be doing in there ... So , not the best place to enjoy the movie alone .
The British FCO seems to indicate that Dengue Fever is still a risk in Mexico : <URL> ( Scroll down or CTRL-F to find the passage about Dengue Fever )
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
The only universally accepted currency in Hungary is the forint , but euros are easily exchanged ( at good exchange rates ) and may be accepted as is ( at poor exchange rates ) in larger restaurants , shops , etc. . So if you have to have cash in hand before you arrive , rupees & rarr ; euros & rarr ; forint is likely an OK way to go , although you will lose twice on the exchange . However , <URL> .
Which Embera Community ? I believe there are several Embera communities ( including but not limited to Embera Drua ( Upper Chagres ) , Embera Puru and Arimae ) , and hence various different places one can be picked up along the Chagres on the way to the village . Hence this question is kind of on the broadish side according to TSE 's regulations . Nevertheless I understand that finding information on the topic is quite challenging , and I assume that for the purpose of your question any information to privately reach any village will do . So here we go . Visit Embera Drua <URL> explains how to visit the <URL> . It suggests contacting the village to arrange a private visit . More importantly , it mentions a rendez-vous point on the lake , which I assume is Lake Alajuela , at Puerto El Corotu . This might be the place you are looking for . As it turns out , the <URL> , with information on how to visit , and detailed instructions on how to reach Puerto El Corotu . Quoting from the website ( emphasis mine ) : Driving Directions from Panama City Take the Transístmica Highway to the community of Cabima . Or , to arrive quickly ( and bypass city congestion ) , you can choose to take the Corredor Norte to the " Colon / Las Cumbres " exit , where you will end up again on the Transístmica . Then , continue north toward Colon on the Transístmica Highway for 6.8 kilometers to La Cabima . There , you will see a Super 99 grocery store , Mr. Precio and a Pío-Pío restaurant in a small shopping center on the right . Turn right after the shopping center and pedestrian bypass . Immediately after turning , follow the road as it curves slightly to the left . Continue for 6.5 kilometers until you reach the Bayano Cement Factory ( Cemento Bayano ) . Turn left at the factory 's sign marked " Cemento Bayano . " Continue on for 8 kilometers until you reach a green and yellow one-story building on your left . This is the Panama National Environmental Agency ( ANAM ) station in Chagres National Park . Pull in and register as a park visitor and pay a small entrance fee ( $ 1 per person for Panamanians , $ 3 for others ) . Exiting the station , turn left back onto the road . Follow this road to the lake . This is the port of Corotú . Welcome ! You can park your car at the port securely . There is a police presence overseeing the port all day . Moreover , the website mentions the possibility of helping you arrange transport to Puerto el Corotu . Below are the contact details : Google Maps Meeting Point Curiously enough , <URL> which could also be interesting to you . It 's difficult to say if this is Puerto El Corotu , or even if it is for charter boats alone , or which community will be picking you up here . Nevertheless it 's still a valid clue in my opinion .
I use those Admirals ' Clubs regularly . They are OK . The food and drinks options are poor , but the showers are pretty nice . There are also some comfortable chairs which recline , which might be good for sleeping , although they can go quickly . The quiet rooms generally are quiet , but they do n't contain the reclining chairs ( from memory ) . <URL> , so you can decide if that 's worth it to you . Assuming you are in Terminal 3 , it 's also worth checking out the Virgin America gates along concourse L , which have powerports , and the new Mexican place near Gate K8 or so ( best food in the terminal ) .
Your friend will need a new visa to enter Libya . All old visas are considered invalid and no longer accepted . Please note , Visa requirements have also changed . Some nationalities do not require visa to enter Libya now ( while they needed before the revolution ) and some do require a visa now ( while they did not require one before the revolution ) . So let your friend ask the local Libyan embassy .
<URL> - the route map is a pain to work with but if you choose the normal booking form , then you 'll see the list of destinations they fly to from Trondheim . Additionally , if you set SkyScanner to search for flights from Trondheim to ' United Kingdom ' for month December 2011 , you 'll find a list of airlines that operate connecting flights ( mostly via Oslo ) to London airports as well as Edinburgh . For TRD to EDI , these are : SAS , Norwegian , KLM , Lufthansa . Your mileage may vary on whether you want to a direct flight from Trondheim to London Gatwick , or rather take a connecting flight that lands at Edinburgh .
You can find the site at <URL> but AFAIK it 's Persian only . I am slightly curious as to what you searched for on Google , really :
According to Wikipedia , the <URL> is ignited at Olympia , Greece , from the action of the Sun . No <URL> seems to exist at this site .
It has always been illegal and people have been arrested for smoking it in the open . I always love the faces of the tourists being arrested at Schiphol airport or in front of the Central station in Amsterdam for smoking weed . It is a global misconception that in Amsterdam it is as free as smoking cigarettes on the street . The principle has always been , what is called " Gedogen " , which means that it is tolerated as long as you do n't use it in the open and do n't create annoyances . It is the Dutch way of dealing with social problems . It is similar to the so-called " afwerkplekken " for street prostitution . These are designated area 's where street prostitution is tolerated . When ever there is a social problem that is hard to eradicate , the Dutch approach is encapsulate it in known zones , relieving other area 's from problems related to that social problem . In the seventies the Dutch government introduced so called " coffeeshops " , which are designated establishments where cannabis use is tolerated . Again recognize the difference between tolerated and allowed . What has changed recently is the legal status for these coffeeshops . They are now only allowed as a member-only organization for local residents . To get access to a coffeeshop you need to register as a member providing proof you live in the same city . The change of this regulation was guided by the pressure from Belgium and Germany . Border cities like Maastricht , Roosendaal , Terneuzen were like magnets to weed smokers from France , Belgium and Germany , causing problems in those cities and the surrounding countries . This was the reason behind introducing the member-only requirement for coffeeshops . This is also why the weed-pass as it is informally called was first introduced in the border regions and later imposed on other cities like Amsterdam . As Mark already said , again some cities like Amsterdam chose not to spent resources on enforcing this . Border cities did introduce the legislation to require the member-only status of coffeeshops , with the effect that most coffeeshops did close .
I think I 've found it on <URL> : 福州港马尾客运站 ( Fuzhou Port Mawei Passenger Terminal ) 罗星东路77 ( Luoxing East Rd 77 ) Per <URL> , they have ferries to Matsu ( 马祖 ) every few hours . Page seems to be on the blink though , the Transport ( 交通指南 ) page is showing up blank . Give 0591-83268880 a ring ?
<URL> <URL> and two galleries on the exterior of them which have great views over the Thames , Westminster and city of London . Stone Gallery ( 52m from the cathedral floor 367 steps ) Golden Gallery ( 85m from the cathedral floor 528 steps ) Access to the Galleries Access to the Whispering Gallery ( 257 steps ) , Stone Gallery ( additional 119 steps ) and Golden Gallery ( additional 152 steps from Stone ) is via stair only . We recommend that those with pre-existing medical conditions , mobility difficulties or concerns with heights and confined spaces do not attempt this climb . A video fly through of the gallery levels and their views is available on the multimedia guides . I 'd add that at two points I had to crouch / bend to get through narrow low stair cases ( for reference I am 183cm ) . <URL> Whilst not a tall building does offer a free panoramic view of London from the north . If I recall correctly you can see the Gherkin , London eye and BT tower . <URL> Located at the south end of Hampstead Heath parliament hill offers a panoramic view of London from the tall buildings in Canary Wharf and the City and the BT Tower . <URL> More commonly known as the walkie talkie has a garden on the top floors 34-37th ( 160M roof hight ) which is free to visit with a booking ( you need to book more than a week in advance in summer for weekends ) <URL> <URL> on the 68-72nd floors with prices starting at # 25.95 <URL> is a bar on the 31st floor does n't require a reservation . They do have dress code which I can attest is strictly enforced and no under 18 's after 6pm . <URL> Has a <URL> and a <URL> . You usually need to book for the bar , but sometimes they 'll let you in without booking if there 's space . <URL> <URL> often hosts events ( for a small fee ) in the penthouse of <URL> near Piccadilly Circus it is the tallest building in the area and has amazing views of Westminster the London eye , horse guards parade and the backyard of number 10 . <URL> Once a year ( normally in September ) London has an open house where you can get access to many of London 's iconic buildings including the Gherkin ( at least in previous years ) . Key attractions such as the Gherkin are ticketed ( due to demand , all sites are free so if someone is selling the ticket its probably fake . ) so you will need to book in advance . There are many other awesome places that few people know about also on offer , such as old war offices in underground bunkers and unused tube stops . The list changes yearly so this is by no means a sure bet . <URL> If you 're resident in the UK you can take a tour up <URL> by contacting your local MP .
The location is correct but I think it opens from early morning and shuts around 4pm . <URL>
According to the Paróquia de São Nicolau ( Church of St. Nicholas ) <URL> : Uma proposta de experiência orante em sintonia com o ritmo da comunidade de Taizé , todas as 6ª feiras das 20h às 21h . Roughly translated as : Come for a prayerful experience in tune with the pace of the Taizé Community , every Friday from 20:00 to 21:00 . <URL> on Foursquare confirm it as well : Taizé Prayer : Every Friday at 19h45m . Come and join us !
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
end question
start question
Why does n't Australia have any trains that can go faster than 160 km/h ?
Both the <URL> and the <URL> can go faster than 160 km/h , and have done so for short distances in trial runs . <URL> . However , in operation both are capped at a maximum of 160 km/h , and typically average out much slower ( the Sydney-Melbourne XPT barely beats 80 km/h for the trip ) . As for why specifically 160 km/h , it 's a typical cut off worldwide for " <URL> " . Exceeding that is generally considered to require high-stability concrete ties for tracks ( Australia still mostly uses wood ) and no level crossings ( rural Australia has hundreds ) .
I believe <URL> will be of use to you . I used to wonder why they even bothered to have " No smoking " signs , but now I realise - Air Algeria , Cubana , Garuda , Iran Air and more still allow smoking in certain sections . The chart is quite old , but my friend flew Cubana at the end of 2010 and confirmed that there was smoking onboard his flight then . According to <URL> : 1979 : Cigars and Pipes banned on aircraft 1988 : Smoking banned on US Domestic flights under 2 hours 1990 : Smoking banned on US Domestic flights under 6 hours 1998 : Smoking banned on all US Domestic flights 2000 : Federal law introduced banning smoking on all flights by US airlines . I ca n't seem to find any information about when it was banned in the UK , other than the mid 1990s . There is no overall law or treaty that bans smoking on all international flights . See related links for information about which countries ( most of them ) have banned smoking on aircraft departing from their airports . The Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ( FCTC ) is the world 's first public health treaty . The FCTC entered into force on 27 February 2005 . The FCTC contains different measures designed to reduce the devastating impact of tobacco on health and economics . As of January 2009 , 168 countries have signed the treaty , and 161 countries have ratified the treaty , becoming Parties to the FCTC . <URL> recognises that 2010 marked the 20 year Anniversary of smokefree U.S. domestic flights , and the ten year anniversary of smokefree flights in and out of the United States . And according to the <URL> , smoking was ALWAYS permitted on the Concorde . In addition , several flyertalk forums refer to attempts to start smokers-only airlines , although these ideas seem to largely have been all hot air , gone up in smoke , or flamed out ...
What is your home country and bank ? No , no details needed , this is not a scam attempt :-) . Knowing may help answers . I 'd expect the following to be the best solution if the service is available : In the past and almost certainly still you can send items to a Post Office to be held pending your collection . You would definitely want to check with Australia Post to see if this service is available and , if so , what mailing and physical office addresses are available for this service . As the letter would still be in the mailing system until collected the security would be good . Alternatively , if you know anyone in Australia they could act as a relay . My daughter is a hospital doctor in Canberra . She may be happy to act as a mail relay point . I imagine that you can get same day courier services from Canberra to Melbourne and pick up at a courier office . Obviously you 'd need some more details before you trusted you card to that arrangement :-) . If all else fails contact me offlist and we can discuss . My email address is on my profile page if required . ( I 'm in NZ ) .
The one year validity was originally set in the <URL> and agreed upon . Anyway , in the 1968 convention of the same topic it was changed to no more than 3 years validity after the date of issue or until the date of expiry of the domestic driver 's license , whichever is earlier , but it seems that this is not followed . From <URL> According to the 1949 Convention on Road Traffic , an IDP remains valid for one year from the date of issue . However , according to the Vienna Convention , an IDP remains valid for no more than three years from the date of issue , or until the expiration date of national driving permit , whichever is earlier . An IDP is not valid for driving in the country where it was issued .
Even in ferries where your coach stays on the top deck , you sometimes have to leave the vehicle . This is because in case of accident , the fear is that it will take too long to escape the vehicle and the risk of going down with the ferry is high . And it is not just for rogue waves , it is also for the ferry getting hit by ( or hitting ) other craft on the water . Not all short term ferry crossings will make you leave a top side parked vehicle , but those where you are more likely to sleep are more likely to get you out . As for vehicles parked under decks , they always have a ' leave the vehicle ' rule with an extra rule of not being allowed on the deck during the crossing . Anybody sleeping in a car or coach will be unable to escape in case of accident , more so when the ferry capsizes , as the vehicles might move against each other and the ' walls ' of the ferry , while those people in cabins will have difficulties but do stand a chance to get out . Most ferries also keep the crew off those decks , but for a security check at regular ( or iregular ) intervalls , staying away from the parked vehicles as much as possible . Keeping passengers from those decks makes for a much smaller chance of thieves breaking open cars parked there , which is an additional reason . No links , as this is basic knowledge , added to by talking with friends ( and chance meeting with crew ) who work on ferries , ranging from the local cross shipping canal one to the Inter Island ferry , New Zealand , where I was allowed to accompany one of the staff on a round of the car and train deck .
I 'm not sure how valid a paper UK license is in Australia . I believe it would be up to interpretation . If you rent a car , you might have to convince them that your paper license is indeed an authorised version of your real driver 's license . It might be a good idea to call up the rental car company and ask beforehand . Road rules and regulations are governed on the state level . Each state has its own rules regarding the use of foreign drivers licenses . Some states require an International License as well . The <URL> site summarises this well .
As Air India mentions in their <URL> , For domestic journeys , along with a copy of your ticket , you will be required to show any of the following identification : Photo Identification of the passenger i.e. : Passport , Driving License , Pan Card , Voter card , Student ID , Military ID , Photo Credit Card , Airlines ID , Any Photo ID card by Airline , Any other photo card issued by Government agencies . <URL> also provides similar information , It is mandatory to produce a valid photo identification using the Kiosk check-in boarding pass for security clearance as well as for boarding . A valid photo identification could be an official Government issued photo identification , a driving license , an election photo identification , Passport ( for international guests ) , or a photo credit card What I infer from this is as long as you have any official documentation from the government or from the airline or a credit card with a photograph , this would be considered a valid photo ID . As far as I can understand the Marriage Certificate should be acceptable on grounds of being a photo identification issued by a Government agency , but there is no guarantee of this because Air India mentions Photo Card whereas Jet Airways does n't mention this at all . I would suggest you to use either a Voter ID or Aadhar Card .
You and your passport and your boarding pass will be checked by <URL> , as they 're the ones who run the " <URL> " . They need to verify you are actually departing from YUL to the EU . The airport 's <URL> do n't actually show the counter , but there 's <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
According to <URL> , the FAQ says no : I 'm traveling with my family ; can they also use the TSA Pre ✓ ® lane ? Family members ages 12 and under traveling with an eligible parent or guardian with a TSA Pre ✓ ® indicator on their boarding pass can participate in expedited screening . Family members 13 and older must go through standard security lanes or should apply for a DHS trusted traveler program . I know your question is n't about family , but ' travel companions ' , but seeing as they do n't even allow family members over 13 to join you on your KTN , it can safely be assumed by a reasonable person ( and yes , I know we 're talking TSA here , irony noted ) that a non-family member would also not be eligible to travel under your KTN .
Shamelessly repeating what has already been said in the comments , I would also suggest Dachau . Another option could be Nürnberg and the <URL> . Both places are a bit far but probably doable in a day ( barely ) . If you want something strictly military , you could try to visit some part of the " ligne Maginot " in France like the <URL> . It 's not too far from Zurich but you will definitely need a car for that . Note that many important events or devastating battles did not leave any landmarks or traces you could see today . The main monuments in Dresden or Darmstadt have been rebuilt in the old style , some other cities like Hannover have been completely reshaped after the destruction but there is nothing in particular that evokes WWII . Switzerland itself did not actively participate in WWII but it did mobilize and still has impressive fortifications that were operational at the time ( most of them built earlier ) .
Both the <URL> and the <URL> can go faster than 160 km/h , and have done so for short distances in trial runs . <URL> . However , in operation both are capped at a maximum of 160 km/h , and typically average out much slower ( the Sydney-Melbourne XPT barely beats 80 km/h for the trip ) . As for why specifically 160 km/h , it 's a typical cut off worldwide for " <URL> " . Exceeding that is generally considered to require high-stability concrete ties for tracks ( Australia still mostly uses wood ) and no level crossings ( rural Australia has hundreds ) .
An exhibit featuring the official high-fidelity replica , <URL> ( called Explorer when it was in Florida ) , atop the 747 shuttle carrier aircraft , is currently under construction <URL> at the Johnson Space Center in Houston . The <URL> states that Guests can take the elevator to the top to first enter the Independence using a timed-ticketing system . The first stop is be the flight deck , where guests can see how the astronauts piloted the orbiter through missions . One floor down , guests will see how cramped living conditions were on the mid-deck and walk out into the payload bay to see an actual flown artifact ... . Down one more level , guests enter shuttle carrier aircraft NASA 905 , the largest artifact from the Space Shuttle Program on display . Your next best bet is the brand-new <URL> at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton , Ohio , which features the Crew Compartment Trainer , a life-sized mockup . The exhibit " allows visitors to experience the size and shape of an actual space shuttle orbiter by entering the payload bay and looking into the flight deck and mid-deck levels . " My third suggestion would be the <URL> on display at the Museum of Flight in Seattle , Washington . It does not have the wings , but as its name indicates is a full-sized mockup of the fuselage that was used for astronaut training purposes . <URL> are available for a fee on weekends and public holidays . Other simulators are in the possession of the <URL> in North Florida , the Adler Planetarium in Chicago , and as noted by Kate Gregory , Texas A&amp;M University ; however , it is not clear as of February 2016 if any of these are accessible to the public . Shuttle Inspiration , a life-sized mockup of wood and plastic built by Rockwell in 1972 for its official proposal to build the shuttle , is now owned by the City of Downey , California . There are <URL> around it , but <URL> indicate it is being restored in preparation for a tour . I remember climbing on it on a science day for the Boy Scouts way back in the 1980s ; it gives you a sense of its size and the scale of the crew compartments , but of course there would n't be any genuine artifacts , making it just slightly better than various other independently created replicas that seem to be floating around . The <URL> , as you know , can not be entered by the public : Shuttle Enterprise at the Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum in New York . Shuttle Discovery at the Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles , Virginia Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in Los Angeles . Shuttle Atlantis at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor 's Complex in Florida
From <URL> : A family entering Australia can pool their individual allowances . For example : a family of 4 ( 2 adults and 2 children ) are entitled to bring in : 4.5 litres of alcoholic beverages ( 2 x adults alcohol allowance of 2.25 L = 4.5 L ) + 100 cigarettes ( 2 x adults tobacco allowance of 50 cigarettes = 100 ) + $ 2,700 worth of general goods ( including gifts , souvenirs , cameras , electronic equipment , leather goods , jewellery , watches and sporting goods ) ( 2 x adults general goods allowance + 2 x traveller under 18 years general goods allowance ) . ( edit ) So to be clearer - for alcohol and cigarettes , you can not allocate to the kids , but you can for other items with no age limits .
Nizhni Novgorod used to be a military stronghold with a very large production capacity for weapons . This is why it was closed under Soviet rule <URL> so foreigners could not travel there . Also Russian nationals were strongly limited , some of them went there <URL> . Many cities were closed at one point in time and <URL> . Nizhni Novgorod still today has some leftovers of this status and his therefore restricted . You need an invitation from " inside " the city to be allowed to enter from outside the country . It 's a legacy they did not get rid of until today .
While the benefits are similar , they are different . Global Entry is limited to US citizens &amp; permanent residents and citizens of 5 or 6 other countries . SENTRI is available to any citizen of any country as long as they are admissable to the US . Global Entry requires passport to apply , SENTRI does not . One might guess that the expanded coverage of SENTRI warranted a higher price in CBP 's judgement .
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
There 's a Thermal Spa Centre ! The new thermal spa centre , on the opposite bank of the river Passirio , was opened during the 1970 's and is furnished with the most modern equipment for therapeutic treatment . It also houses an indoor swimming-pool filled with thermal water and the natural radio-activity in this water has a most beneficial pathological effect . The spa centre is open all year round and specialises in a vast selection of curative treatments . <URL> <URL> Prices range depending on whether you want a spa , a bath , and for how long . <URL> . There certainly does n't appear to be any indication of nudity .
A lot depends on how far you live from the airport or train station - I have a much larger " train is faster " radius because the airport is on one side of " the big city " and I am on the other - and there are train stations on my side . The big difference is in the time to clear security and wait at the gate . I have read suggestions you arrive at the airport 3 hours before your flight . For domestic flights I go with 2 hours , even less when I know I can fast-track the lines , but that 's up to you . For the train , you just need to get there before the train . The second difference is that airports are usually 30 minutes or more from downtown , while train stations are downtown - depending on where you 're headed , that can be a big deal . I count that as another hour 's time in the train 's favour . And finally , there is a fair amount of " ceremony " in the actual departure and arrival of a plane - safety speeches and checks before departure , taxi-ing , waiting for takeoff , possible circling of the airport on arrival , more taxi-ing , waiting for the ground crew - that can add up to another hour . For me , the train has a five hour headstart on the plane , because on top of all that I can get to the train station quicker than the plane , and it 's already partway to my destination . That means I can go about 400 miles before the plane would be faster . This covers a fair amount of where I need to go , so I take the train quite often .
British Airways provide a <URL> , including all about Flight Connections . I 'd very much suggest you read through that . To tackle the main bits , assuming you have a single ticket covering both legs of your journey : You will not pass through UK customs You will not pass through UK immigration Your bags will be checked through to your final BA destination , so wo n't have to be collected or re-checked . ( Check the baggage tags given to you at checkin to ensure they have been tagged all the way through ) If your starting airport is able , they 'll give you your second boarding pass If not , you 'll have to go to the flight connections desk to collect it On arrival , you 'll follow the purple Flight Connections signs , and have your boarding pass + passport checked You will have to clear security , which is upstairs from flight connections , before you enter the main departures area of the terminal As long as there are no flight delays on your inbound , 2 hours will be fine . Queues to get your boarding pass checked before security tend not to be too bad , and while security can be shocking at times , we 're talking 30-45 minutes at bad times . One thing to check when you arrive is what bit of T5 you arrive in , and where you go from . T5 actually has three buildings , linked by an underground shuttle train , T5A ( the main bit ) , T5B and T5C . If you arrive at B or C gates , and depart again from B or C , you can clear flight connections and security there , which is generally a lot quieter . However , if either flight involves the main A gates , you 'll have to do security there , which can have delays at busy times . I 've managed to find a CC-BY photo from <URL> which shows what you 'd see at T5A : This is at the far end of the Purple Flight Connections signs in T5A . To your right are the desks , where you 'd go to collect your onward boarding pass if you did n't already have it . To the left is the UK border , which you 'd have got to if you 'd followed the yellow arrivals signs instead . Straight ahead is where they 'll check your passport and scan your onwarding boarding pass , then it 's up the escalators in the background to get to security . You need to get your boarding pass scanned by 35 minutes before departure ( conformance ) , so with 2 hours you 'll be fine !
end question
start question
Where can I get a pre-paid SIM in Wellington , NZ and do I need ID ?
An easy option is <URL> ( although there 's also Telecom and Vodafone , if you 're staying in cities , I 'd recommend 2degrees ) . There are many stores in Wellington that sell the sim cards , and last I checked ID was not required ( I last bought a sim there 3 years ago ) . They have a <URL> which shows dozens of locations in Wellington to buy - I usually just go to a newsagent or ' dairy ' ( like a corner store ) . 7/11s are n't in New Zealand , despite being common in Australia ( ! ) .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
UPS Store Canada will do the same . It has <URL> service : you upload your stuff and pick it up at the nearest UPS Store ( just downtown there are four ) . As for cost , check the <URL> .
While what constitutes a " best " spot is subjective , here are some popular options : <URL> This road is located in Tokyo , between the Gaienmae and Aoyama-Itchome stations . The best time to visit is from mid-november to early december . <URL> <URL> While this doesnt feature only Ginkgo trees , you can enjoy the view in this traditional japanese garden . <URL> <URL> The temple grounds feature many Ginkgo trees , plus you get so visit one of the biggest temples around . <URL> The lesson here is that there are n't many dedicated spots for Ginkgo trees , but they are more or less omnipresent in Japan . Visit during the end of november and you are sure to get your fill of beautiful colors . <URL> <URL>
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
Of course ! For example , as a New Zealander , while I was in the UK I decided to go to South America , and later to Central Asia . I needed vaccinations , obviously . It was as simple as going to the doctor . Of course , in many countries it will cost you money , and you 're right , it 's probably not covered by insurance . I 've also had new prescriptions filled and even gotten <URL> . Health systems are usually available to anyone , just what you end up paying may differ to the locals . And whether it 's covered by insurance is entirely dependent on your policy . ( from <URL> ) Whatever you do , if you have that yellow booklet of all your vaccinations , take that with you for them to sign and document , so that you have an official record of them . It 's come in handy for me on more than one occasion .
2016 update : all three major national operators offer similar plans . <URL> , <URL> ( formerly Life ) , <URL> ( formerly MTS , UMC ) offer 3G voice and data connectivity at just a couple of bucks per month . There are other 3G operators , however a traveler would normally prefer one of the three mentioned . SIM cards are everywhere and available freely . From the mentioned above three , Kyivstar and Vodafone are believed to be slightly " bigger " and offering better coverage outside of populated areas . Lifecell in turn is known as more addressing youth and believed to offer better mobile internet connectivity in densely populated areas . However I suppose all three are close in quality of service . All three tend to offer cheaper or free calls on home network . It is common that the number remains valid for a year , which might be interesting to those expecting recurring visits to Ukraine in future . Perhaps something new from the operators in 2016 is their low-cost offers for international calls . The operators offer attractive calls abroad and in roaming for specific directions . For example , <URL> for international calls to selected countries is cheaper than Skype-Out calls , with decent voice service quality . Base services are presumably so cheap that they can not go any lower ( imagine <URL> ? ) , so they started attracting users with auxiliary services .
I ended up getting a typhoid shot at the Zagreb city-run Andrija Stampar Teaching Institute of Public Health ( Croatian : Zavod za javno zdravstvo " Dr. Andrija Štampar " , <URL> ) . The address is <URL> . Look for the signs for " epidemiologija " , just to the left inside the main entrance . The medical staff spoke good English , the cost was around $ 30 ( April 2016 ) , and I was in and out in about 20 minutes .
Answering my own question because this took a lot of legwork : We found precisely two insurers who cover travel beyond 26 weeks . ( Only for uncomplicated births : no multiples ( twins ) , no IVF . ) <URL> offers coverage up to 36 weeks in some countries . However , if you 're based in Australia , <URL> , and that requires an expensive " Pregnancy Extension Option " that pushed the insurance price to over $ 800 for 5 weeks ( ! ) . <URL> offers cover <URL> as a part of their standard policy , and will even provide a letter on request stating so ( handy for those US immigration authorities ) . They 're happy to insure residents of any country for travel to virtually any country , and while not cheap , at 323 euros the cost was still about half of what Columbus wanted . No prizes for guessing which one we went with ! Update : In the end , neither check-in nor US immigration noticed my wife is pregnant , and the birth occurred outside the US as well . So we never had to " test out " the insurance .
You can buy the 4G SIM card in Telkomsel Grapari in Jakarta and Bali , read <URL> under " Terms and Conditions " . You can find the address list <URL> .
<URL> allows ' today ' flight searches . You should also be able to make bookings with airlines on their websites directly .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
If you enter security through the first class line , you will not have access to TSA Pre-Check . The TSA Pre lane is a separate lane and only there you can not remove belt , shoes , jacket , liquid bag , laptop . You can not exercise your privileges in another lane . Yes , as more and more people are enrolled into Pre sometimes using that lane is just not worth it . On the other hand , <URL> claims You 'll still be able to leave on your shoes , but will have to bypass PreCheck 's additional perks ( like leaving your laptop in its bag ) . I was unable to find anything on the TSA page confirming this . Edit : <URL> clearly says : If you have a TSA Pre ✓ ® indicator on your boarding pass , proceed to the TSA Pre ✓ ® lane It is a very interesting question whether you are allowed to use a normal lane if you have the Pre indicator -- I doubt anyone would care as long as you are scanned .
No for both countries : Peru : With a few exceptions ( notably some Asian , African and communist countries ) , visas are not required for travelers entering Peru . Tourists are permitted a 30 - to 90-day stay , which is stamped into their passports and onto a tourist card , called a Tarjeta Andina de Migración ( Andean Immigration Card ) , that you must return upon leaving the country . The actual length of stay is determined by the immigration officer at the point of entry . Read more : <URL> Bolivia : Citizens of most South American and Western European countries can get a tourist card on entry for stays up to 90 days , depending on the nationality . Read more : <URL> I had no problem getting 90 days each on the borders .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Unless you have n't paid the fine and now have a warrant outstanding I would n't worry about it . Traffic offenses are only a concern if you have committed something serious like a vehicular manslaughter or if you basically ignored the summons or mandatory court appearance and now have a warrant issued for your arrest . <URL> but also provides you with the link to the definitinon of crimes for which your <URL> . The list is too big to copy here but the only thing that involves vehicles is in fact manslaughter : Involuntary , where the statute requires proof of recklessness , which is defined as the awareness and conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustified risk which constitutes a gross deviation from the standard that a reasonable person would observe in the situation . A conviction for the statutory offense of vehicular homicide or other involuntary manslaughter that only requires a showing of negligence will not involve moral turpitude even if it appears the defendant in fact acted recklessly
No , you ca n't . Pre-clearance is an airport thing : all travellers flying by air from Toronto Pearson to the United States are pre-cleared , kept quarantined in a hermetically sealed portion of the airport , as if you were already in the USA . Then , when you arrive to a U.S. destination airport , you are treated as if you arrived domestically . At a land border crossing , you are all in the same queue . Typically , people with US and Canadian passports are waved through . With any different passport , you are likely to have to park your car , go into the office , wait for an officer , be interviewed , fingerprinted , perhaps have your luggage scanned , etc. . I am a Dutch national and I used to live in Toronto . I have crossed the land border twice from Ontario to New York , and twice from Ontario to Michigan . Every time I had to go into the office for an interview .
A towel is required . And it has to be large enough . You are supposed to sit or to lie on it . One towel can be enough . However , a second towel and/or a bathrobe can be useful too , when you are relaxing outside the sauna . In most of the saunas you can rent towels and bathrobes . If 80x60 refer to centimeters , than it 's not enough . You have to fit on the towel , as shown here : However , sitting like this wo n't be accepted . You will then be kindly reminded to put your feet on the towel :
It 's possible and easy . You just have to go to one of the many mobile shops around and buy the sim card . In Portugal there are 3 physical operators : <URL> formerly known as <URL> <URL> <URL> You also have some virtual operators : <URL> - they usually have nice prices but everything is done on-line . You can buy a card in mobile phone shops or by snail mail <URL> - similar to uzo <URL> - you can find them in every post office shop ; it belongs to the post office company . <URL> - kind of new . It 's widely available and aparently with good prices . <URL> formerly known as ZON - it 's part of a cable tv group ; in principle a good solution but only if you subscribe to cable <URL> A very recent virtual operator , currently offering Internet when you top up . Recharging a pre-paid simcard in Portugal , for someone from abraod , can be a problem since the most common way of doing it is in ATM machines . You probably ca n't recharge your phone with a foreign ATM card since you only get a small set of operations . The alternative way is to go to the physical shop where you bought the card ( or another one from that network ) or go to any shop with " payshop " . You can find a near by agent here <URL> ( only pt ) . Lycamobile allows for an on-line recharge .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
end question
start question
How to get from Genoa to Cinque Terre ?
From Genova ( Piazza Principe or Brignole ) , take a regional train with the destination of La Spezia Centrale . There are direct trains to 3 of the 5 villages , so depending on your preference , buy a ticket to one of : Monterosso ( northernmost ) Vernazza ( 2nd from north ) Riomaggiore ( southernmost ) But note that there are many more direct connections to Monterosso than to Vernazza and Riomaggiore . To Monterosso travel time is 1h 45 min , and it costs 6.60 $ ( Nov 2012 ) . Buy the ticket from the station ; remember to stamp it on one of the Italian-flag-coloured devices near the platform before boarding the train . There 's roughly one regional train per hour , from 04:53 until about 22:00 . Here 's an example of the timetable for one such regional train : There are also direct intercity trains to Monterosso every few hours that take 1h 15min and cost 9.50 $ . For more details , try the <URL> ( e.g. Genova Piazza Principe to Monterosso ) . In my case it was slightly run-down urban 2-storey carriage with dirty windows . Not as charming as the villages , but gets you there quite smoothly . :)
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
Cagnes-sur-Mer has a railway station , with frequent trains from Nice ( generally every half hour ) . Trains take about 15 minutes , and you just buy the ticket at the station on departure . Depending on where you are in Nice <URL> might be useful too . The local bus company has its website here : <URL> ( Press the British flag for English ) . Generally speaking : Getting there by public transport is easy and cheap . Doing it as a day trip perfectly feasible . Haut de Cagnes is about 1km from the train station . If you really do n't want to climb , you can walk to the town center ( square Bourdet , also a stop on bus 94 ) and take <URL> uphill .
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
I ca n't tell you why you get no results with a Google transit search , but I can tell you that you wo n't find anything useful searching the OC Transpo web site unless you already know exactly where you 're going , and it wo n't show you what you need to know anyway since OC Transpo does n't really go into Gatineau . So , here 's the kind of so-so news . There are buses which reach the southermost edges of the park boundaries , but they do not go into or around the park , and do not reach as far as the visitor centre or many of the places within the park you might want to go . You 'll have a bit of a hike ahead of you . Fortunately there are plenty of hiking trails ... So , <URL> routes 35 and 48 reach the southeast and southwest boundaries of the park respectively , and you can get either of these in downtown Ottawa . They enter Wellington Street at the Portage Bridge and travel to their last Ottawa stop at Rideaux and Cumberland , before returning to Gatineau via King Edward Avenue . The <URL> shows a few other routes which overlap those at some points , in case those might also be useful to you . ( For instance , routes 35 and 48 only run Monday-Friday , and you may want to find a weekend bus . ) Cash fare is $ 3.90 , and some discounts are available .
No , there really are no cheap flights from Toronto to Resolute Bay . This is a known problem , as small communities are hundreds of km from each other and thousands of km from any road . Long distance flights in often hazardous conditions with small aeroplanes . It means the local Inuit ( unlike the extremely well-paid miners ) are often unable to visit each other or to visit southern Canada , and inhabitants of southern Canada are unable to visit Nunavut . Although the article mainly focusses on food prices , <URL> also notes : Nunavut 's remote communities do n't have highway access , he says , and airline tickets do n't come cheap . A one-way to ticket between some Nunavut communities can cost up to $ 2,000 , nevermind moving an entire family to a southern urban centre . From Resolute Bay , you need at least two of such hops . I am not at all surprised that you find tickets for $ 5,000 . I would not expect that you can get to Montréal for less than $ 3,000 , one way . For all practical purposes , visiting Nunavut as a budget traveller is impossible . Maybe you can hitch a ride of a freight supply ship , but there are no official ways through which this is possible , and you 'll be on your way for weeks , if not months . If you try to get out by kayak , ski , or snowmobile , please make sure you are prepared for Arctic weather and Arctic wildlife . Good luck .
Take a taxi to the nearest MTR Airport Express train station , which would be Tsing Yi or Kowloon . Then take the train . It takes 24 minutes to get to the airport , and <URL> . There are many buses that also go to the airport . You can find a full listing of them <URL> .
According to the official <URL> there are two places you can use as your source . Rejkjavik and Copenhagen . There are 2 airlines servicing the island : <URL> and <URL> . The price Air Iceland is currently quoting for destinations in Greenland is 161 EUR ( Kulusuk ) and 193 EUR ( Nuuk ) . I guess the further north the more expensive it gets since you will probably need a helicopter ride . Could not find the ferries but there are cruises from Europe that will take you around Northern sites including Greenland . There are multiple sites referring to that but they may be exactly the same cruise : <URL> <URL>
There is a thread on <URL> discussing exactly this topic . Which refers to 2 bus lines that offer service between Belize and Santa Helena/Flores/Tikal in Guatemala . Express Buses -- Flores / Belize / Chetumal Two Guatemalan bus companies , San Juan Express Bus Service and Linea Dorada , provide bus service between Flores , Belize City and Chetumal ; they do not make any other scheduled stops in Belize . In Belize City , buses arrive at and depart from the Belize City Water Taxi / Marine Terminal on North Front Street near the Swing Bridge . Buses operate on Sundays and public holidays . Not all buses are air-conditioned . The schedule below was in effect on 20 December 2007 but always confirm times before travel . The thread is from back in 2008 so information is a bit dated but I was able to find the companies <URL> seem to offer a stop in Belize but on <URL> and it may not work for you timewise , the other seems to be discussed at length on <URL> and not under the best of terms . There is a sort of <URL> information on which I ca n't verify but it gives you some contact information for both companies listed above so you can check prices and schedules as needed . One other company that is mentioned in the <URL> is <URL> , which actually does offer a shuttle from Belize to Flores for $ 28 the only thing is I ca n't seem to find the schedule of when it leaves Belize but you can try contacting them to check .
Get the 4am Southern train service from London Victoria , gets you into Gatwick at 4.46 am There 's also a 4.30 am Gatwick Express that 'll get you in at just gone 5am , but tickets are bit more on that . See <URL> for examples for tomorrow ( well , that URL will always work for the coming Tuesday , but the site has a search ! ) ( There 's also the option to stay in Brighton , and get the <URL> to Gatwick , but you 'll probably find London both easier to get to and cheaper to stay in , even if it lacks a beach ! )
I did some research and collected various answers : From <URL> there are two possibilities : Air : As stated , access to Canaima National Park is by air to the village of Canaima , about 50 km away from the falls . From there , you take either a smaller plane and fly to an airstrip at Canaima Lagoon , or travel by river to the lagoon . From the lagoon , you hike to a view point of the falls . There are also daily flights via Puerto Ordaz connecting Canaima airstrip with the major cities of Venezuela . The airstrip is a short jeep-train ride from nearby Lodges . Check flights from your area to Caracas or other Venezuelan cities with connections to Ciudad Bolicar and Canaima . From this page , you can also browse hotels , rental cars , and special deals . Water : From Canaima , when the water is neither too high or too low , you can travel by motorized canoe , called curiara up the Carrao River , then the Churun river to an point where you can then hike through the jungle to the falls . The river portion takes about four hours , and you should allow an hour or more for the hike . Canoe access to Angel Falls is restricted to the rainy season , June to November . From <URL> Angel Falls is one of Venezuela 's top tourist attractions , though a trip to the falls is a complicated affair . The falls are located in an isolated jungle , and a flight from Puerto Ordaz or Ciudad Bolívar is required to reach Canaima camp , the starting point for river trips to the base of the falls . River trips generally take place from June to December , when the rivers are deep enough for the wooden curiaras used by the Pemon guides . During the dry season ( December to March ) there is less water seen than in the other months . Very interesting information can be found on <URL> . They do not only explain how to get there but also mention a price and duration . Similar information can be found on <URL> . They also explain in very detail how to get there .
STP Airways has a weekly flight leaving from Lisbon . If you are willing to make a connection or fly on different date , <URL> has other options : Air Nigeria flies between Lagos &amp; Sao Tome via Libreville on Tuesdays and via Douala on Thursdays . On Tuesdays TAAG Angola Airlines flies to São Tomé from Luanda ( flight DT511 , [ 3 ] ) . On Thursdays &amp; Sundays , flight DT502 stops in Sao Tome en route to Praia , Cape Verde ( [ 4 ] ) .
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
I have not done this journey in a superjeep , only in normal transportation in summer months . But I can tell you that it is usually around a 2.5 hour journey . Its a fairly pleasant drive in my experience . During winter , Iceland only has around 4 hours of daylight per day . At worst , on the Winter Solstice ( 22nd December in 2015 ) <URL>
To travel between Bodrum and Datça by bus , you will need to transfer in Marmaris . If you ca n't find direct service between Bodrum and Marmaris , you can always transfer in Muğla , which is the provincial capital and a stopping point for long-distance buses travelling from north western Turkey to the western Mediterranean . If you can find an intercity bus for either leg of this trip , it will be more comfortable , but you will likely find it easier to take one of the local companies ' smaller buses since they will have more departures . Bodrum to Marmaris will probably take close to four hours thanks in part to the steep descent prior to the plain near Gökova , but it really depends on how lucky you are with a connection in Muğla . From Marmaris , there will be frequent minibuses to Datça . According to the ferry website , the cost for a one-way ticket is $ 12 . The total bus fares will exceed that , but not by a huge amount .
There are no direct connection that I 'm aware of . Your best bet is : From Ciampino to Roma Termini ( train station ) using the <URL> . The bus ticket is 3.90 Euros . From Roma Termini take the metro B line to Piramide stop From Piramide ( aka Porto San Paolo ) take the <URL>
From Tokyo , you 've got two choices : <URL> from Shinjuku to Kawaguchiko , about 1:45 . JR Chuo line express train from Tokyo station or Shinjuku to Ōtsuki , transfer to Fuji Kyuko line to Kawaguchiko ( Japan Rail Pass [ JRP ] not valid ) , total travel time around 2:30 including transfer times . To Osaka , life gets more complicated : There is one ( 1 ) <URL> from Lake Kawaguchi to Osaka . It costs & yen ; 8,500 and takes ~ 10 hours depending on where in Osaka you get off . Fujikyu Bus runs <URL> to JR Shin-Fuji and Mishima stations , from which you can catch the Tokaido Shinkansen bullet train to Osaka . Both buses take ~ 2 hours , JRP not valid . Alternatively , backtrack to the Chuo line and either return nearly all the way to Tokyo to Yokohama to board the Shinkansen bullet train ( both the cheapest &amp; fastest option if you have a JRP ) , or head north towards Shiojiri and then loop back towards Osaka ( scenic but slow and connections infrequent ) . I rarely recommend rental cars in Japan , but the <URL> is one of the few areas on Honshu where it makes sense . Do n't rent from Tokyo , though , but at a suitable station along the way ; then if heading towards Osaka , you could drive around Fuji and drop off the car at ( eg . ) Shin-Fuji stn before continuing by Shinkansen .
Tackling the London-Manchester bit , <URL> runs regular services on this route . If you book in advance , tickets should be under # 20 each way . There are several fast trains an hour , and it takes about 2 hours for the trip . You can get timetables and book tickets on the virgin trains website ( amongst others ) One note about UK advanced train tickets - tickets generally go on sale 3 months in advance . The very cheapest tickets will often sell out that week , but you can normally get some fairly sensibly priced ones for several weeks after . ( There are normally advanced tickets at a couple of different price points for most journeys ) . Finding out exactly when tickets are on sale to does vary in difficulty , <URL> as an example display their booking dates on their homepage , others do n't . Another snag is that tickets are n't released until engineering work is announced . This may mean that weekend tickets go on sale later than weekday ones , and some companies will have their weekend tickets available weeks before others ! Advanced purchase train tickets are almost always for a specific train , and non changeable . They are generally only available on longer journeys , but you can sometimes get a local journey at each end included ( depending on the company ) . I think almost all the train companies offer them , but advanced tickets are generally tied to just that one company . This means that if you want to do a journey that involves two companies , you 'll often need to book two advanced tickets ... Finally , if you 're booking fairly last minute , expect things to be rather expensive , especially on popular routes . If you 're booking on the day / almost on the day , you may be able to save a little bit by taking a slower train . Ask at the ticket office about that , and they 'll tell you if it 's possible . Another option that may be available is <URL> , where you find that splitting your long journey up into lots of local legs can be cheaper ! Oh , and if you 're travelling off peak and with a child , then get a Family Railcard . There 's an annual fee , but you 'll generally save that on any single long journey . You ca n't start too early , and you must have at least one child in the group , but for family leisure journeys it can save a lot .
end question
start question
How do I cancel a ticket bought from Czech Airlines webpage ?
Call them . Seriously , that 's always the easiest way to get any changes done with any airline . <URL> does seem to allow passengers to login and see the status of of their ticket ; some airlines also allow cancellations using their online system . I did n't find a mention of this in their site help pages but you should give it a go . ( You might already have . ) Otherwise , <URL> . If you 're <URL> : CSA Czech Airlines Kungsgatan 37 5 floor 111 56 Stockholm +46 8 54 54 54 90 +46 8 58 53 67 69
It would depend on the airline and the airport/country but no matter how you buy the ticket , the next big step is what 's called " checking in " . This is when the airline assigns you a seat and confirms that you will indeed be flying . In most cases , you can now check in online a few days to a few hours before departure and print the boarding pass at home ( or wherever you can find a printer ) . You can then show up at the airport and present this self-printed boarding pass together with your passport to drop your luggage off and go through the security and police check ( where applicable ) . Some airlines/airports also allow you to use a smartphone app as your boarding pass . Alternatively , it 's also possible to check in at the airport itself , possibly for a fee . I have not done that in quite some time ( preferring online check-in ) , but , back when I did it regularly , giving my name and presenting an ID was typically enough for the staff to find my booking . If using some automatic check-in machine , scanning the passport or presenting the credit card used for the booking was sometimes necessary . In any case , you do need to be at the airport in advance ( depending on the circumstances up to 2 or 3 hours before departure are recommended ) but not to go there in the days before . Finally , note that your ticket should include some confirmation number that you could write down to help the airline find your booking should any problem arise .
For EN 446 , no It 's a night train and they do not want people to get on in Potsdam . <URL> , and they responded . ( I had a typo in the train-number . ) <URL> Here 's a free translation to English : Me : Why ca n't I book EC446 from Cologne to Frankfurt/Oder online although it stops there ? DB : Do you mean EN 446 ? In Potsdam we do n't plan for people to get on , only off . That 's why this station can not be booked . Me : Yes , that one . Can I book from Frankfurt and get on in Potsdam anyway ? DB : No , because in Potsdam only deboardings are planned , not boardings ;-) Me : Are there bouncers ? Can I get on later in regular ICE trains ? For example if I have a ticket from Berlin to Cologne , can I get on in Spandau or Wolfsburg ? DB : Our people are on the platform . Of course you can get on later , but remember that seat reservations are forfeit after 15 minutes . So we can conclude that on this particular train , you can not do that . We do n't know why exactly , but if you try anyway and they catch you , they might not let you in . In general , yes You can always leave early or get on late in regular trains . Your tickets with Deutsche Bahn give you the right to be on the train ( or any train on a direct route ) between two stations . They frequently do not check tickets between two or more given stations . There is no way for the conductor to tell if you sat there for one station , two stations or longer if they are passing through the carriage for the first time to check tickets after the fourth station . It can also happen that you get never checked because you got on at the other end of the train and get off at the next station while they are still busy somewhere else . The above Twitter conversation confirms this personal experience . Bonus-Information : If that happens and your printed ticket does not get checked/clipped your City-Ticket in the destination might not be valid . You need to go get it stamped at the information desk in the destination station or local public transport might fine you for not having a ticket .
There are numerous cameras along the D1 motorway , all of which are <URL> . There are indeed roadworks on the approach to Brno , but you should be fine outside the peak hours : Assuming you do n't drive between 07:00 -10:00 or 16:00 -19:00 on weekdays , I 'd take the D1 .
I think you want an extension ticket , but see below . <URL> The idea is that you need to have one ticket that 's valid for your whole trip . Technically , on the journey out , you may step off the train at the last zone B station , validate the ticket , and step back onto the same train . But unless you know exactly where the validator is on the platform and position yourself accordingly , you 'll be stranded until the next train comes . On the return journey , you need to validate your single ticket at the start of the journey , and you 're supposed to step off and back on at the first zone B station . Technically , if a ticket inspector happens to step on at that point and realizes you did not have a ticket for the whole journey , the rules state that they should fine you . There is a different ticket , the <URL> ( Anschlussfahrschein ) , which is meant for use in combination with an ordinary A+B ticket to prolong one trip into zone C ( or start in zone C and continue through zone B and optionally A ) . This ticket is explicitly not allowed in combination with the A+B <URL> or with the A+B <URL> . I ca n't find a definitive reference regarding its validity in combination with a daily , weekly or longer ticket . The <URL> only explicitly excludes " WelcomeCards , CityTourCards , Schulklassen-Tickets und FamilienPass-Monatskarten " , so I surmise that it is valid in combination with other passes , but please confirm with a ticket office first ( and report back ! ) .
Having done this now , I can say that the answer I 'd previously accepted ( Terminal 4 ) was incorrect . The flight I was on ( an American Airlines one ) landed at TBIT . It was fairly easy to " transfer " to Terminal 4 though - after re-dropping my bag , it was just a short walk outside - fairly obvious once you 've looked a terminal map .
When Kosovo grants Turkish citizens visa-free entry for short stays , it is a sign that they do n't plan to subject most entering Turks to greater scrutiny than what can reasonably be done on the fly at the border checkpoint . This has to mean that they do n't routinely demand extensive paperwork such as letters of invitation -- if they did , there would be a visa requirement so they had a chance to get a good look at it in peace and quiet . So unless you arouse more suspicion in the border guard than most other Turks do , what you will need is just your passport , and convincing answers to standard questions : What is the purpose of your trip ? Where will you stay ? When and how will you leave Kosovo again ? Be prepared to document your accommodation bookings , tickets for the journey back home , and that you have enough money for your expenses during the trip . ( if you think you do look suspicious , arm yourself with as much documentation as you can lay your hand on , and hope for the best ) .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
I 've flown directly over the north pole on a route from ATL to PEK ( beijing ) . Here 's a pic of the seatback flight map from a United 747 , where I spent the entire flight with my face pressed to the window . Amazing scenery from Hudson Bay north through Baffin Island and on . It was July of 2008 . When we crossed the pole ( as indicated in the flight map ) the icon of the airplane began to flip back and forth , not knowing exactly which way it was pointing . I thought that was really cool and shot video of it trying to establish it 's direction over the course of about 3 mins . Once we get a little bit of distance from magnetic north , the icon settled down and pointed toward Beijing .
I 've found reviews at Trip Advisor and , especially , Booking.com to be reliable . You can get mobile apps for both . The idea of sticking to one chain is also reasonable , but it might be difficult in some of the less populated areas . Off topic , on that route I recommend making a detour to as many National Parks of the Southwest as possible .
The specific terms under which an airline will rebook you , refund you , or otherwise are laid out in its Contract of Carriage ( or Conditions of Carriage ) , which in turn may be constrained by regulations in the country where the airline is based or where the flight is operated , as well as various international treaties . In the event of bad weather , most U.S.-based airlines will attempt to reschedule you on a later flight on the same airline . Naturally , this works out better on routes where there are twelve daily departures than where there are one , as with many international routes . Because phenomena like bad weather , volcanoes , sunspots , air traffic control restrictions , and the like affect all airlines , they are unlikely to endorse your ticket to a different carrier , unless the situation is extraordinary , or you are an extraordinarily high value customer to them . If you can not wait two days for the next available seat , they may issue a travel voucher or partial refund . For example , according to the <URL> , bad weather ( " meteorological conditions " ) constitutes a " Force Majeure Event " : American may , in the event of a force majeure event , without notice , cancel , terminate , divert , postpone or delay any flight or the right of carriage or reservation of traffic accommodations without liability except to issue an involuntary refund . The involuntary refund will be made in the original form of payment in accordance with involuntary refund rules for any unused portion of the ticket . American will also reserve the right to determine if any departure or landing should be made without any liability except the afore mentioned involuntary refund . Force majeure events encompass quite a few things that it is difficult to plan for ; from the <URL> these include a ) Any condition beyond UA 's control including , but not limited to , meteorological or geological conditions , acts of God , riots , terrorist activities , civil commotions , embargoes , wars , hostilities , disturbances , or unsettled international conditions , either actual , anticipated , threatened or reported , or any delay , demand , circumstances , or requirement due directly or indirectly to such condition ; b ) Any strike , work stoppage , slowdown , lockout , or any other labor-related dispute involving or affecting UA 's services ; c ) Any governmental regulation , demand or requirement ; d ) Any shortage of labor , fuel , or facilities of UA or others ; e ) Damage to UA 's Aircraft or equipment caused by another party ; f ) Any emergency situation requiring immediate care or protection for a person or property ; or g ) Any event not reasonably foreseen , anticipated or predicted by UA . Given that , I would say the best real protection is purchasing an insurance policy that will cover you in the event of the above situations , either by reimbursing you room and board while you wait or for alternative transportation . Be careful , though , as much travel insurance in fact excludes these very same conditions .
I called a cousin who works for an airline at an airport , he explained how to do this in a very safe and efficient way . Infants do not need a seat , airline require a fraction of the price paid by the adult to be paid for the infant ( ~ 10 % ) or sometimes it is free . Hence , just make the reservation for you and your wife and other passengers who need seats , and skip the infant . Once the infant is born and it is the day of the travel , head to the airport a bit early and issue the boarding for the baby on the spot , as I said earlier , airline staff will be happy to issue the boarding because there is no seat required and you can make the payment in the airport . The price should be a fraction of the that specific price you paid . So , no worries at all . Anyway , to his knowledge this is how it is done in the airline he works for and some other airlines , not sure if it is safe to assume all other airlines do it the same way , but according to him adding an infant who does not require a seat is something easy in many airline systems .
There are no international standards for airline transport of musical instruments . Each airline has its own policy as to what it will or wo n't accept as checked or cabin luggage , what its dimensions are or how large or heavy it can be , how much insurance might be required , what the baggage fee would be , and so on . So unfortunately , you will need to check with every airline in your itinerary as to their policies and fees . Bringing instruments on as hand luggage adds day-of-travel concerns as well ; if the scheduled plane is swapped for a smaller one at the last minute , you may no longer be able to take it aboard , or if you arrive late at a connection and all the overhead bin and other storage space is occupied , you 'd be asked to check the instrument or have to be rescheduled for a later flight . If you search around the web you will find innumerable horror stories ( one incident <URL> not long ago , although in fairness it could have happened on any airline ) . But you 'll also find personal accounts like <URL> ; newspaper articles like <URL> or this <URL> ; tips from musicians ' organizations such as the lists by the <URL> ; suggestions from manufacturers and retailers like <URL> ; and independent resources like <URL> . To summarize some of the common tips , consider the following : Contact each airline and explain you will be traveling with an instrument . For example , an airline might allow you to purchase an extra seat for a tuba or a bass , but may allow only one instrument per flight , which wo n't be obvious when you book online . For many airlines it is not possible to reserve an extra seat for a single person , meaning you will need to call and get a seat assignment anyway . Invest in a good travel case . Even though some instruments may be able to fit into standard luggage , they will generate less suspicion from security and more sympathy from gate agents and flight attendants if stored in a proper instrument case , not to mention enjoy better protection . The smallest case that will fit the instrument is advisable ; while that means it has less space for tools or cleaning fluids , those are probably best packed separately anyway as they can cause security screening delays . Purchase sufficient insurance . Be prepared to purchase an extra seat for it , if it is larger than a cello and you do n't want to check it . Some airlines forbid this , others require it . Be prepared and be patient . Bring printouts of each airline 's musical instrument policy . Arrive early and board as early as possible to maximize your storage options . But above all be friendly and patient with all airport , security , and airline personnel ; they can make any traveler 's experience difficult , but passengers with special requirements are an easier target . Within the United States , airlines are subject to federal <URL> requiring them to accept musical instruments as checked or carry-on luggage . One more thing : your instrument may be able to collect frequent flyer miles , but not always , and it 's become <URL> for airlines . Given all of that , it may be worth considering traveling with a backup instrument instead of your favorite , to borrow or rent an instrument at your destination , or use an alternative instrument ( e.g. a travel electric bass instead of your regular double bass ) . Of course , none of these options is a slam dunk , either .
So , you 've actually ended up asking multiple questions in one which strictly ( [ faq ] ) you should n't do , but I 'll try to address it as one . In relation to getting there in time for your flight , it depends on the airline you take , what they say , and also how much lee-way you want to give your arrival at the airport . However , yes , you can take ground transportation , and depending on what your plans are it 'd be a consideration . You can get buses directly from Flores to Belize , however , if you 're in Tikal , there 's this from <URL> : Don David 's is fantastic - we were there in January . They will be able to arrange all your transport if you need them to . I have rarely met such helpful people ! The buses to Belize run from Flores / Santa Elena but will pick up at El Cruce which is the main road junction about 20 minutes walk from Don Davids . Alternatively , Don Davids will arrange a ride into Flores . The buses run direct to Belize City with just a stop at the border . We used the service in the other direction with a direct bus from Chetumal to Flores via Belize City . The only advantage in going to Flores is that there is more choice of agents but they are all selling tickets on the same bus services . So you could ask your Tikal Inn if they can do the same , if not , wander over to Casa Don David 's and ask them for help . What about driving ? Some kind person has detailed <URL> ( well they went the other way , but just reverse it ) . <URL> ( Tikal Park ) lists a few flight connections that may be of use to you . And someone else <URL> : Finally , there is <URL> , but be aware the discussion is from a few years back , and may not be up to date . Conclusion - if you 're up for an adventure , I 'd go for the bus ride . Driving sounds like too much hassle . But if you have the time , public transport is always a fun time , or a good story . Much more interesting than just another flight .
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
<URL> says that tickets can be booked on the online website of CFR , the Romanian Railway company . <URL> . Quoting from The Man : How to book trains within Romania [ ... ] You can book Romanian domestic train tickets online at www.cfrcalatori.ro , the Romanian Railways ( CFR ) website , including domestic sleeper trains . It will only book the compulsory-reservation mainline trains , not local services , but it 's easy enough to use and should have no problem with non-Romanian credit cards .
As a EU citizen , you are entitled to visa free entry throughout the EU . You need proof that you are an EU citizen , and the easiest way to provide this is with your passport . Furthermore , as a UK citizen , you enjoy <URL> - not including those in the EU . It is safe to say , you enjoy a great deal of freedom of movement even outside the EU .
The metro link to the airport is newly opened ( Monday 3rd November 2014 ) See official <URL> for details and map . So you will need to take a tram from the Airport to Trafford Bar and change for a tram for one stop to Old Trafford . <URL>
As Johns-305 notes , it is likely that they can issue you with both boarding passes when you check-in at SBA , and it may be possible for you to get your own boarding passes in advance online . Some bad news though . You will unfortunately need to exit the secure area and go back through TSA security for this itinerary . Your United flight into SFO will likely arrive in Terminal 3 , but the Avianca flight leaves from <URL> of the International Terminal . There is <URL> for this particular connection . Your bags should be checked through ( confirm this when you drop them off in SBA ) , so you wo n't need to reclaim and recheck them , but you will need to walk to the international terminal and go through TSA security again . Most of the Star Alliance partners leave from the G gates , where there is a post-security connector to Terminal 3 , but unfortunately you 've found one of the exceptions .
Yes indeed , most US airlines charge for all check baggage . There are exceptions if you have " status " with either the airline themselves or with any of their affiliated airlines ( eg , Star Alliance , OneWorld , etc ) , or if you 're flying in First Class , or if you 're connecting from an international flight , or if you have one of their pay-for credit cards , but for most occasional domestic travellers you 'll be charged to check any bags . The fees vary from airline to airline , but are generally fairly similar . International trips are higher , although most airlines still do not charge for ( at least ) the first bag for most international trips . The fees are available on their airlines websites . eg , for both <URL> and <URL> it 's $ 25 for the first checked bag , and $ 35 for a second checked bag for domestic flights , and whilst the first bag is free for international flights the second will cost you up to $ 100 . <URL> depends on the type of ticket you have purchased , but is generally $ 25 for each of the first two check bags . The main exception to the above is <URL> , who do not charge anything to check your first 2 bags ( with standard weight limits/etc ) . Some airlines , such as <URL> , charge different rates depending on whether you pay for your checked bags in advance ( $ 28 / $ 35 for domestic up to 40 pound/18kg ) or at the airport ( $ 38 / $ 45 ) . Mind you , Spirit also charge you between $ 20 and $ 45 ( up to $ 100 starting in November ! ) for your carry-on bag , so avoiding them completely is generally the best option .
end question
start question
Is overnight stay at Narita Airport permitted ?
From <URL> : Sleeping in airports is generally frowned upon in all Japanese airports . While the terminal is open , you will likely be approached by a security officer who will ask to see your travel documents It also links to a quote from the <URL> , although I ca n't find the quote on that page . Aircraft operating hours is between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. . Customers are not permitted to remain in the passenger terminals outside aircraft operating hours . However , under special circumstances , for example when an aircraft arrives after public transport stops operating , customers may be allowed to sleep in designated areas . Moreover , customers catching early morning flights are advised to use nearby hotels and accommodations around the airport . It does however say that sleeping facilities can be reserved in advance in the day rooms . From some of the comments , however , on sleepinginairports , some had no problems and even had the police show them comfy places to nap . So it looks like officially , no , you ca n't , but in reality depending on your luck , you may be able to .
I 'm not aware of any official statistics but as far as I remember it took me about 30 minutes . The airport is small and did n't look very busy but I arrived at 2:00 am so I 'm not quite sure if it 's going to be more crowded during daytime . You need to compile an entry paper and pay a fee ( about $ 50 now for a single entry ) .
For the visa part , the rules are ( <URL> ) : Visitors continuing their journey to a third country within 72 hours can obtain a Shore Pass/Transit Pass on arrival , provided : being able to prove to Japanese immigration that Shore/Transit Pass will be appropriately used ; and departing from the same airport of arrival ; or departing from a different airport ( or seaport ) in the district of the airport ( or seaport ) of arrival , provided both ports are located within the same group as listed below . Group A : Airports : Narita ( NRT ) , Haneda ( HND ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) , Niigata ( KIJ ) , Komatsu ( KMQ ) and Yokota . Seaports : Tokyo , Yokohama , Niigata and Nagoya ; Group B : Airports : Kansai International ( KIX ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) and Komatsu ( KMQ ) . Seaports : Kobe and Nagoya . Group C : Airports : Fukuoka ( FUK ) , Nagasaki ( NGS ) , Kumamoto ( KMJ ) , Kagoshima ( KOJ ) , Naha ( OKA ) and Kadena . Seaports : Hakata ( Fukuoka ) , Shimonoseki and Naha ( Okinawa ) . Group D : Airport : Chitose ( CTS ) . Seaports : Tokakomai , Otaru , Hakodate and Muroran . Additional Information : Tokyo ( NRT ) closes at 11:00 pm.Visa required passengers intending to transit overnight , must hold a transit visa or obtain a Shore Pass in order to clear Immigration . Under those rules , you should be able to obtain a transit pass on arrival at Narita and venture out of the airport .
When I was last at T3 in Dubai , the terminal did have free wi-fi but it was excruciatingly slow . Boingo hotspots are present in all terminals in Dubai International Airport . <URL> . <URL> : <URL> : For a more long term option , and if you are a frequent traveller , consider purchasing a data stick from your home country that you could use in Dubai . If you travel to Dubai often , consider purchasing a data stick from one of the two ISP 's : <URL> and <URL> .
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
I have met the " fruit sniffing " dog several times and am aware ( from watching Border Security ) of currency-sniffing and firearms-sniffing dogs in addition to the classic drug-sniffers . Generally , these dogs sniff people 's bags more than people . ( The Canadian beagle that met my flight from the Caribbean once sat [ the dog 's signal ] about my bag , but the handler did n't even want to look in the pocket when I said there was no fruit in it . The Australian german shepherd did n't sit and the handler was not interested in looking to confirm when I said there was peppermint gum in the pocket the dog smelled at the most . ) [ As an aside , in addition to being more interested in bags than people , the vast majority of these dogs work Arrivals not Departures and are found in the baggage hall . The chances of someone being sniffed on their way to a plane are very low . Still , since you worry about this , let me also add that they should allow plenty of time to get to the plane so that unexpected stop-and-search moments do n't result in them being paged to get to the gate and almost missing the plane . I found <URL> that specifically shows cash dogs working in Departures at Heathrow . Watch it and you will hear the handlers tell people " let the dog sniff your bags " ( not you ) and see that the dogs do not touch the people . You can also see people putting backpacks and other worn-high bags such as purses down towards the ground to let them be sniffed . ] My recommendation to you ( and it helps other things as well ) is to have your pockets as empty as possible . In my case that means completely empty . Everything , even my boarding pass , money , and cellphone , is in my carry on bag . Make sure that none of your bags [ carryon or checked ] contain fruit , meat , drugs , thousands of dollars in bank notes , guns , or illicit drugs of course . Also , have a quick chat with your imam to clarify the difference between going over to someone 's home and patting their dog and generally deliberately interacting with a dog vs being in a public place where a working dog approaches you , sniffs you without touching you , and then leaves . The public is not supposed to pat or interact with the sniffer dogs and the dog is not supposed to touch you at all . This conversation may reduce your anxiety about airport dogs a little , which is a good thing , because anxiety in an airport always gets you extra attention . Your imam may also advise you about the washing that is required after a dog has licked ( unlikely with a trained professional ) or nuzzled you or your possessions . If you need to bring something specific to clean up from the dog contact , have it with you in your carryon , in a size and format that wo n't cause issues going through security . Finally if the dog approaches you , put your bag down , stand up , step back from your bag , and hold your arms out a bit - partly to make yourself bigger and partly so your hands are up and away from the dog . Look at the handler , not the dog , and say " please do n't let the dog touch me " - the handler should understand that request and be fine with it .
They made a <URL> in 2010 about this service . The advertised domain for this service , specially targeted at backpackers , does not exist anymore , so I would assume this service is discontinued . If you are willing to pay a bit more ( ¥ 2,700 ) , you can use the <URL> to bring you from Narita to Asakusa .
Most countries except for the UK , USA , Ireland , Mexico and Canada impose formal exit checks in the same way they impose entry checks . ( I am excluding passenger information being submitted to governments , by exit check , I mean all departing passengers queue up and an immigration officer looks at every outgoing passport . ) Therefore unless you are exiting one of those above-mentioned countries , there are formal exit controls . Travelling within the Schengen zone of course involves no passport control , because it is designed as one immigration zone , but when you leave the zone there is an exit control . There may be further exceptions ( please reply in the comments ) but actually I can think of none off the top of my head .
Shops normally can not sell to tourists VAT/Duty free just because you have a plane ticket . The maximum a shop can do is sell you VAT-Free since that is a separate charge . Duties on Liquor and Cigarettes are not known to the personnel since they are applied at the manufacturer/wholeseller level so the shop can not sell you those without charging the duty . It 's basically already paid . VAT Refunds : Most countries allow you to get VAT back when you exit the country as a non-resident . Examples : In Singapore for example , you can buy things anywhere and get the VAT back on the airport provided you bring the receipt ( and ideally the item ) with you after the check-in . If you buy goods in Germany , you can take anything to the customs border to Switzerland and get the VAT back as long as you are not a German resident and have the item together with the receipt . Prepare to be asked for the VAT on the other side however when you come into Switzerland however . The difference can be worthwhile however for goods of higher value . <URL> on Tax-Free shopping in Germany for example . Duty Free : As mentioned above , Duty on Alcohol and cigarettes , coffee and other items are normally more difficult to get back - if at all possible - since they are not listed on the bill as a separate item and included in the base price . There are some duty/tax free shops in several European and Asian cities that cater for tourists specifically , outside of the airport . I would google specifically for the country that you are interested in . This <URL> might help also . It lists some places where you can shop duty/tax-free outside of airports as well . There are also whole regions where Duties and/or Taxes are exempted despite the fact that they are part of a country where normally higher taxes apply , as for example <URL> and <URL> are EU VAT free zones .
Since you have one ticket , you do n't have to worry . If you miss your connection you will get transferred to the next available flight . Also most flights these days arrive ahead of time . There is <URL> epic answer that explains this in detail .
No visa is required for transiting in Japanese airports if you have immediate flight connections regardless of nationality . Anyway , there is a <URL> which is intended for people who have longer layovers before transiting and want to go sightseeing or resting in Japan for few days ( up to 15 days ) .
Also it is more likely to get a jet bridge when traveling with the local airline . Say you are leaving Stockholm for some obscure Balkan city . You will always get a jet bridge at arlanda so do n't travel with SAS in that case . Use the Balkan airline that is more likey to get to use one of the two jet bridges at it 's hypothetical home airport .
Is it usual , no . Does it happen , yes . Baggage travels from the terminal to plane side in a variety of conveyances , some which are covered and protected from rain , some which are not . And unfortunately , there is really no covered area plane side where they could move the uncovered baggage cart to if it starts raining . While you may see the ramp staff hide under the wing during rains , safety rules often prohibit the tugs and baggage carts from going under the wing ( especially on smaller planes that would have hand loading ) . For the most part you probably need not worry about it , but it never hurts to consider how you are flying and through which cities . If your flights involve smaller aircraft ( 737 , 757 , A320 , RJ , prop planes , etc ) and you are flying through a city where frequent showers occur , then protecting things inside your bag ( especially those that might be damaged by water ) might be warranted . Otherwise , I would n't be too concerned .
After emailing the address mentioned by Peter Hahndorf <URL> ( salonvip@eaai.com.ni ) , I learned the following from " VIP Shift Managers " on duty who answered the emails : The VIP lounge service costs US$ 34.50 for adults and US$ 11.50 for children under 12 years old . Payment is made as you enter the lounge on the day of travel . The staff in the VIP lounge will take care of the immigration , customs , and airline baggage check procedures . Guests receive a plate of sandwiches , two complementary drinks , Internet access , and cable TV . Departing guests can wait in the VIP lounge until the boarding process begins . VIP service can be provided for departing or arriving travelers . For arriving travelers , VIP staff will meet you in the jetway with a sign with your name on it . Reservations need to be made ( I assume via the email address ) with sufficient time for the staff to be able to prepare to receive you and should include the flight date , airline , and flight number . Arriving travelers using the service fill out the immigration and customs forms as usual on the plane . The VIP staff will turn the forms in to the appropriate place , and if by chance duties are owed they will come to the lounge and let you know . In that case , you can go down and pay them personally , or you can give them the money and they will pay and return with the receipt . They will retrieve your luggage from the baggage carousel and when all the details are finished , they will return to the lounge , return your passport , and let you know everything is ready . For departing travelers , VIP staff will take care of baggage check-in using the first class line , so it is n't necessary for the traveler to wait in the standard line . However , they still recommend getting to the airport sufficiently early to accommodate any unexpected delays .
According to <URL> on Tripadvisor : yes , there are always taxis at Yangon airport : No problem at all , there 's always Taxis - at night they 're actually even cheaper as there 's less traffic ( general rule in Yangon nowadays ) - 7000-9000 Kyat would be an acceptable price to downtown ! If you use the Taxi booth mentioned by Dave , it 's less hassle but might be a little more expensive , if you ( only if you have small luggage ) walk 1 minute just outside the airport gates and flag down a Taxi there , it 's gon na save you around 2000 Kyat usually :-) But definitely no problem at all to find transportation ! Since Yangon is Myanmar 's most busy airport , I 'd be very much surprised if there is n't at least one taxi driver all the time there .
The CBP/TSA have recommendations from both their own and external parties about certain individuals for whatever reasons - innocuous , cautionary or other , indicating that their recommendation is that said individual not be allowed to board a flight . For example , the <URL> : CDC provides " Do Not Board " recommendations to CBP and the Transportation Security Administration ( TSA ) regarding individuals who may be infected with a highly contagious disease , present a threat to public health , and should be prevented from traveling to the United States via commercial aircraft . TSA is performing vetting of all airline passengers coming to , departing from or flying within the U.S. to identify matches to the " Do Not Board " list and flag matched individuals ' records in the Secure Flight system to prevent the issuance of a boarding pass . So at this point , you do what the note tells you - you ( hopefully with the ground staff ) contact the TSA/CBP , determine the reason , and see if there 's anything you can do to get around it . For example , the original " No Fly List " <URL> , especially if you say , had the same name as a suspicious person . If you were erroneously put on the list , you can appeal it , but <URL> .
People in CS can tell on their profile which is the maximum number of nights they want to host , so I think that filtering on that you will be able to identify the kind of hosts that fit your travelling policy . In my personal experience , being member of CS since the beginning of 2009 and living in Pisa ( so , a lot of requests every day ) , people ask for 1 to 3 nights so , yes , it is unusual to stay for more than 3 days . Of course this can depends on the nature of the city : Rome is not visitable in just two days while Pisa is . Moreover , it is not unusual for people to ask to be hosted several times , usually at the beginning and at the end of a trip . That 's what happened with some Americans I hosted when they landed in Pisa and at the end of their travel through Italy before taking the plane back .
Sleeping in airports is not uncommon when transiting through . Quite a few people stretch out and nap while waiting their next flight . But this is primarily in the transit areas , security often frowns on folks sleeping in the public area around the check in counters ( otherwise homeless folks would flock to the heated airport lobbies armed with a second hand suitcase ) . Both the Mecure Schipol and Yotel are inside the international transit area , so you ca n't access them until you check in for your flight . The Yotel was closed last September during renovation , not sure if it has reopened yet . The best bet is to book one of the other three on that website , since they are all within walking distance . Or look on a booking website like Agoda and pick a hotel that offers free airport shuttles .
Nate is correct , because the Galley is loaded from the right ( and on a 737 is on the right hand side ( centre for bigger planes ) Page 6 of the <URL> PDF shows Boeing 747 design specs and how a plane is serviced while on the ground under normal circumstances . You 'll notice that the cargo is also loaded on the right hand therefore if a plane was being unloaded via stairs it would create a substantial hazard .
The solution to the language barrier problem may be much simpler than relying on the immigration to provide the interpreter for the native language of your family member . Given that he/she is coming from your native country it is much simpler to do one of the following : Find a person on the plane who speaks one of the major languages as well as the native language of your family member . My mother-in-law does it all the time . When she arrives she asks to come through immigration with that person to help her understand what 's being asked and she had no problems on her numerous visits . Ask the air crew for the same help . Yes it may require them to stick around longer then they would normally would but they normally speak at least one language in addition to the native and on most international flights ( if not all ) you will be able to find a person in the crew that speaks the native language of the destination country in this case France . He/She can try to arrange it prior to departure this service definitely is available for kids traveling alone but you can try it for your relative .
end question
start question
Are there showers / sleeping facilities at SFO ?
According to <URL> : Showers - Location : Freshen ' Up International Terminal - landside , level G , Main Hall . Hours : 7:00 am - 11:00 pm . Fee : $ 15 for the Deluxe Shower ( 30 minute shower + 15 minute massage chair with towel , soap , shampoo , lotion , shower shoes , and a hairdryer if required ) / $ 8 for the Standard Shower ( 20 minute shower with soap and towel provided ) . Sleeping - Best sleeping spot Ive found so far is a lounge in Terminal 2 near Baggage Claim # 4 , with two padded benches each of which is big enough for you and the one you love .
The Greek Law Forbids Wild Camping First things first : a Greek law dating from 1976 forbids wild camping . Quoting from <URL> : Greece Wild camping here is illegal , the authorities preferring to point tourists towards money-making , taxable hotels and campsites . This rule is rampantly ignored , but we 're not going to recommend that you wild camp , just in case . But a friend of a friend of a friend tells us there are numerous stunning spots on the Cyclades islands which are virtually un-policed , particularly the north-western coast of Amorgos and the southern beaches of Anafi . And we certainly would n't recommend the east coast of the Peloponnese around Leonidi and Kyparissi , despite the fact that they are totally unregulated and utterly remote . Nope , not us . The law prohibiting wild camping has a number of caveats including <URL> , the possibility of <URL> , and whether or not a taking a nap in a sleeping bag is considered camping . The Logistics ( i.e. Who 's Gon na Take you There ? ) Having said this , let 's turn our attention to the logistic aspects of this . <URL> . You would therefore have to pay for a boat ride , and convince the skipper to leave you on the island . Another option would be to hide away on the beach hoping that nobody notices your absence . How about the return journey ? You 'd have to convince a different skipper to pick you up ( for a fee , of course ) . Or you could have arranged something with your departure boatman . All in all this plan depends on the cooperation of the skipper who takes you to the beach . I could n't find anything regarding rules and regulation that might prohibit boating companies from leaving passengers on the beach overnight . Might be worth a try . Another option would be to get there with your own boat , moor and camp on the beach . At this point you 'll have to hope that the coast guard does n't patrol the beach . You might get lucky and spend a wonderful night , or you might end up having to discuss with the Greek law enforcement officers - an experience I do n't wish to anyone . If you do end up camping there please be respectful of the environment , and leave no trace of your passage .
Oslo is not really a good starting point for visiting the fjords . I assume you are thinking about the deeper fjords ? Some alternatives : Hire a car in the northern parts of Norway ( Nordland ) and follow <URL> . This will take you along the coast crossing several fjords . Fly to Bergen and take one of the <URL> ferries or express boats to one of the fjord destinations .
It 's fairly normal in many parts of Europe that regular non-entertainment , non-tourist oriented shops keep regular business hours and do n't open in the evening . This is especially true of smaller shops . The historical , economic and social reason is simple - shop-workers like to have a life . They do n't want to work evenings any more than you do , and most shop owners do n't want to pay staff to work evenings unless there is the trade to support it . Europeans have n't bought into the idea that ' shopping is entertainment ' , or that everyone should be able to buy plumbing supplies at 2am . it is n't a hard and fast rule . The bigger the city , and the bigger the store , the more likely it is to be open later . You will almost always find a big grocery store that opens well into the evening , and often bigger department stores on the outskirts of the town open late too . But smaller stores in the centre of town usually do n't . Restaurants , pubs , clubs etc. do of course open late . For essential services like a pharmacy there is usually one that is open late in most towns , on a rotating basis .
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
Yes , there is ! If you rummage through all the PDFs in the French bit of the airport website , you 'll fine the details <URL> . Alternately , just ask at the cafe/bar in the airport , they 're very friendly and helpful there :) You need to go to the information ( l’accueil ) desk , which doubles up as the Air France ticket desk ( and is much better signed for the latter than the former ! ) . If you ask there for a password , they 'll take your name , wander back into the office and generate you a personal password for the day . You can then connect to the Wi-Fi , trigger the captive portal , enter your password and get online . However ... It 's a very small airport , and people there have multiple roles . So , if you want to get the password just as a flight is about to leave , you 'll have to wait ! ( The staff who give out the password also help with flight dispatch ) The good news is they 're very friendly , and they 'll come and find you with your password once the flight has gone !
There is no clear price information mentioned on <URL> . The easiest thing to do will be to call or email them . Their website provides this information : Baggage storage is exclusively available at the Airport Travel Agency , located on the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . The Airport Travel Agency is open daily from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No reservations are required for baggage storage . All baggage is x-rayed prior to storage . Rates are assessed per each 24 hour period that an article is in storage ( articles in storage for less than 24 hours will be subject to the 24 hour rate ) , and vary according to the size of the object . Please contact the Airport Travel Agency at 650.877.0422 or CF.Airport@gmail.com for additional information . <URL> says that the typical rates vary from $ 15 to $ 35 whereas the pricing on the <URL> is quite ambiguous and seems to not agree with the same . I would assume that your size luggage would cost approximately $ 25 but the best solution is to just ask via email . SFO offers only one staffed location where you can store baggage . Airport Travel Agency , located in the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , is near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . It offers storage for $ 15 to $ 35 per day depending on the size of items you are storing .
It looks like there are quite a few places , but most of them only have websites in French . The magic search term is . For example , Diabolo Funboard ( who did the video I linked to ) have a rental location on Anse Vata Beach ( la plage de l'Anse Vata ) . <URL> which Mark mentioned are in a similar area , and appear to have some quite nice gear from Naish . So , it looks like there are several places there , with a range of kit from beginners to experienced !
Heineken Bar at Incheon Airport The <URL> , one in the East and one in the West side of the duty free area , both next to gate 4F . I do n't know if they have draught beer , but the name looks promising . Below is a screenshot from the linked site : <URL> The Jet Lagged Lizard at Incheon A couple hundred metres outside of the airport , in Incheon , you can also find the <URL> - a full blown pub with draught beer , food and all the rest . This solutions looks perfect , provided you are willing to leave the airport terminal . <URL>
I 'm not aware of any official statistics but as far as I remember it took me about 30 minutes . The airport is small and did n't look very busy but I arrived at 2:00 am so I 'm not quite sure if it 's going to be more crowded during daytime . You need to compile an entry paper and pay a fee ( about $ 50 now for a single entry ) .
I do n't see any problem at all at finding a cab at Navtlugi or wherever you want in Tbilisi . Just rise you hand on the road and any free car will stop near you . And also I am sure that plenty of cabs reside on the Navtlugi station . However , if you want to be super safe , you can call taxi by phone with following numbers : 2 717 717 291 14 14 2939 100 2535 535 2200 200 0322 10 50 50 2 201 201 2 30 88 88 2 377 877 2 939 939 247 77 44 293 91 00 291 14 14 274 74 74 2 27 26 26 551 999 244 571 999 244 230 03 01
I ca n't figure out if you are mainly asking about regulations or about possible differences between planes from the same model that might interest a traveller . If you want more details on the former , you might consider asking on the <URL> sister site but regarding the latter , there are definitely differences . Airlines can and do ask plane makers like Airbus or Boeing for customizations in interior design . Differences includes class configuration ( how many first class and business seats ) , the amenities and the seats themselves ( there are big differences especially in the premium classes ) , the size of the seats and the distance between the rows . Insiders call this the " hard product " . As pointed out in the comments , it 's even possible to change the interior configuration on an existing plane after delivery ( although immobilizing a plane for that costs a lot of money ) . Case in point , the <URL> ( a common choice for short-haul low-cost flights ) can be between 150 ( in a two-class cabin ) and 180 ( in a ' high-density ' single class configuration ) . Similarly , the Airbus A380 is certified for <URL> but nobody has ordered one with so many seats and each operator uses a different configuration , sometimes even two . Beyond that , some rows have to be further apart for operational reasons ( emergency exit rows , row at the front with the passage to the front door or a bulkhead in front of them ) . Traditionally , you could get a seat there by chance or , possibly , by being clever and asking for it while still paying the same price . But some airlines realized they could scrap a little bit of profit by selling those seats at a small premium . That 's the origin of , e.g. , Easyjet 's " XL " extra legroom seats ( they did not order new planes with specially designed " premium " seats , let alone a a kind of two-class cabin , they just happened to have 12-18 seats with more legroom on each plane already ) . One drawback is that you ca n't put anything under the seat in front of you on these rows . There is a website called seatguru with a huge wealth of information on seat dimensions and cabin configuration on various airlines . Glancing at their <URL> , you will see that seat pitch ( distance between rows ) ranges between 28 and 39 inches ( almost 40 % more ! ) across all planes and airlines . Similarly , seat width is between 16 or 17 and 20 inches . Bottom line : You ca n't assume that flying a given plane model guarantees you will have the same leg space .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
You likely wo n't be able to fit into a " normal " cab , however SFO normally has a good assortment of types of cabs available , ranging from those with just larger trunks up to minivans and the like . There are generally taxi marshaling staff at the airport who will be able to assign you to a taxi that will work for you . Keep in mind that a cab to the South Bay likely wo n't be cheap - depending on exactly where you are going it 's a 30-50 + mile trip , and due to the taxi regulations they will charge you ( at least ) 1.5 times the fare to cover the return portion back to the airport as they are not allowed pick-up passengers for a return trip .
Generally The simple answer is : you ca n't ... from a normal phone . Toll-free numbers are specific to the phone exchange system of a particular country and thus when calling from a VOIP phone provider like Skype or calling from a different country 's network the call wo n't get routed through correctly . Your alternative to insist on asking for the version of the toll-free number with an international dialling code . In most cases , toll-free numbers are simply forwarding call internally with a phone exchange and by changing the prefix , you get the real number . In the UK for instance we have <URL> which provides listings of direct numbers . North America A more complicated answer is that for countries under the <URL> such as <URL> they all have a common numbering system and toll-free calls will be supported . This may or may not always work depending on whether the toll-free number owner allows such calls : see <URL> . Skype <URL> . This covers US and UK among major countries , which should cover a wide range of financial , airline , and travel assistance numbers . Manually change the country to the one you 're dialling to from the drop-down list in Skype 's phone pad if you do n't want to type in a number with international dialling code .
As a cyclist both recreationally and professionally , I have found Thai drivers quite willing to share the road with bicycles . Granted Bangkok and Patong ( on Phuket ) are not bike friendly , but most of the rest of the country is . While dedicated bike paths are not common , they are slowly starting to appear in areas around the country . Your referenced article in the Bangkok Post was obviously written by a car commuter not a cyclist , picking on small issues ignoring the fact that the bulk of that 184 kms will be great riding . But one big thing is , that as a foreigner , you have to learn to go with the local flow , you ca n't expect the same conditions as in a bike friendly country like the Netherlands or Denmark . There is a lot of give and take , the concept of " I HAVE the right of way " becomes more " can I go first " . Similar driving attitudes prevail in other central SE Asian countries ( Laos , Cambodia , Myanmar ) . Vietnam unfortunately inherited the aggressive Chinese driving style . Finally a rant ... sidewalks are NOT bike paths unless specifically marked as such . Bikes are vehicles by law in most every country of the world and as such are required to use the roadways unless a specifically designated off road bike path is present . The existence of a ramp at the curb does not equate to that sidewalk being a bike path . That ramp is there for handicap access .
They have the holes because of the machines that made them ( check DavidG 's answer ) , anyway this ice cubes with holes are better for planes for a few reasons : Because they are lighter ( believe it or not , every gram in the aviation business counts , plus the ice is not made onboard , it is loaded prior to departure just like the food ) They cool things faster due to larger area of contact with the liquid They also will allow more liquid to be filled in the already small airplane cups . Last thing , they do not tend to stick together in the ice bucket , so cabin crew wo n't need to smash it to break it down .
You have many options here . As you said , you could just go along the coast and ask any surfing school , I 'm sure they 'd offer you what you 're looking for . Here are a few options if you want to ease your mind : <URL> offers a discovery session for 55 $ : every week-end day from april to november ; shuttle from Bordeaux ; 2 hours sessions ; time depending on tide ; age and level groups ; spot depends on weather conditions <URL> lets you book and pay online , so you can do that and take the bus As for the surfing conditions , I 've never had to complain but that 's not something we can control :)
The most common rules ( may vary of course ) : you have to remove your shoes . men : trousers , not shorts women : long skirt ( or trousers ) women : shoulder and arms can not be exposed women : scarf ( sometimes )
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
end question
start question
Travelling from St Malo to Quimper on the train , do you need a reservation for a fully assembled ( non-folding ) bike ?
Yes you 'll have to pay for your bike spot , but only if your trip includes a TGV segment . The map you 're showing is for intercités which is another type of train and does not seem to run the route you want . If you search on the SNCF <URL> with your itinerary you 'll see you 're allowed a free spot for the bike on the segment from Saint-Malo to Rennes , but you 'll have to pay on the TGV from Rennes to Quimper . If you 're taking the TGV you need to reserve a spot for your bike , the reservation costs 10 Euros . There 's another , slightly longer trip , that does n't take the TGV where you 'll have a free spot all the way to Quimper ( as long as you 're on a TER ) . While travelling on a TER you do n't need to reserve a spot for your bike , but you can tick the " Travelling with a bike " while reserving your <URL> . Il est possible de réserver votre billet et voyager avec votre vélo en cochant la case " je voyage avec mon vélo " . [ ... ] L'embarquement du vélo non démonté est gratuit sur les TER et certains INTERCITÉS sans réservation obligatoire . Cet embarquement est alors autorisé dans la limite des places disponibles . <URL>
No . Firstly , note that you 'll likely be required to get a visa at the border with the US , even though you 're in the visa-waiver countries for ESTA - it apparently only counts for flights , or within 90 days of a flight into the US if arriving by land ( ! ) as I found out , twice . However , leaving the country there 's not even a passport check - you simply need to have the legal ( visa or other requirements depending on your passport ) for entering the next country . As the country for you is Canada , and you 're a British citizen , <URL> . Documents-wise , you 'll need your passport and travel documents ( flights etc ) and it 's handy to have any details of your accommodation or other travel plans , in case you get asked for them at any of the borders .
For EU citizens <URL> but you have to make several distinctions here . The fact that the police can and does check ID does not mean it 's mandatory for everybody to have one on them . Conversely , the fact that there should be no systematic check at the border does not mean that it can not be mandatory to carry ID ( it 's the case in the Netherlands for example and yet actual checks seem rare in my experience ) . Rules can also be different for locals , EU citizens and third-country nationals . For example , regarding the first incident , French citizens are not even required to hold a national ID card at all but it 's still perfectly legal for the police to do ID checks under certain conditions , even far away from the border ( <URL> or on <URL> ) . I think that even for third-country nationals ( and certainly for French citizens ) , not having any means to prove your identity on you is not per se a punishable offense . The police might keep you for a few hours to ascertain who you are by other means or be generally unpleasant but you can not be charged with anything just because you left your passport at home . Furthermore it should be pointed out that racial profiling has long been a problem in France . I have no way to independently assess how widespread it really is but I heard many anecdotes and some organizations regularly complain about it . There are even a few official reports that acknowledged the problem and , back when he was still running for office , the current president promised a number of specific measures to deal with it . <URL> but this gives you some idea of the context . Now , under the Schengen agreement , France committed herself not to perform systematic checks at her borders . But anything else still depends on national law . For example , being part of the Schengen area does not mean that nobody can ever be asked for ID on French territory . Nor does it provide you with any practical recourse if you are victim of racial profiling or if you suspect French police is bending the rules . If France really is in breach of the Schengen agreement , this is something other EU member states and especially the EU Commission might deal with in several ways ( potentially escalating to an infringement procedure in front of the EU court of justice ) but that does not immediately help you in practice . In fact , French law even specifically allows the police to ask people for ID at all times in border areas , on international trains and <URL> . In 2011 , the Commission looked at what France was doing and <URL> but did not go further or challenge the law itself . <URL> has been writing extensively about checks at the France-Italy border and elsewhere so it seems to be a relatively common occurrence . All this also means that there are no EU or Schengen-wide rule that would definitively answer your question . It 's certainly not mandatory to always carry ID everywhere but since police checks do happen , carrying your passport seems like a good idea in practice , especially as a non-EU citizen .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
No , you do n't need local currency . Istanbul Atatürk is a massive transit airport ( <URL> in 2013 ) , and virtually all shops are more than happy to accept credit cards . Some will even take euros , but the exchange rate will not be in your favor .
From Berlin , the closest non Schengen destination is the <URL> . The beeline distance is + - 500 kilometers and over the road its + - 600 kilometers . There are direct flights between Berlin and Kaliningrad . It is just one hour . Otherwise , there are a couple of places in non Schengen countries that you can reach in more or less 2h30 by plane : Sofia ( Bulgaria ) , Bucharest ( Romania ) , Belgrade ( Serbia ) and Zagreb ( Croatia ) . So as to find the most cost effective option , I would play a bit with <URL> or a similar tool . In 2 hours you can also reach Kiev ( Ukraine ) or Minsk ( Belarus ) from Berlin . However prices for direct flights to these destinations are much higher than for the other destinations mentioned . Depending on your citizenship , all these destinations may not be visa free . And a visa may not be obtained for free . Take that into account .
Definitely not the platzkart ! I 'm serious , you 'll never get a calm trip if you are in there . Platzkart has additional side places across the train , so it 's up to 52 people there in a car compared with 4 * 9 = 36 people in kupe car . Also , if you have an upper place ( the even one ) , you simply can go upstairs , and rest for whole trip ( yes , there is a probability that your neighbors will try to speak with you , but it 's much less than in platzkart . Also in kupe you have doors to close and remove outer noises , which you ca n't do in platzkart .
The Antarctic Peninsula is a part of the sector of Antarctica claimed by Argentina . If you are taking a ship that goes only there ( and not to the Falkland Islands , for example ) , you are technically not leaving Argentina at all . I went to the Antarctic Peninsula from Ushuaia last November . The crew took my passport before I boarded the ship , and returned it just before we came back to Ushuaia . I do n't know what kind of formalities there were before the departure , but at least I did n't get an exit stamp to the passport . When the ship returned to Ushuaia , they just transfered us to our hotels without any formalities .
I describe my own experience as I went on the Camino de Santiago in summer 2011 . I will focus on Spain and the camino frances , if you want to know something about france , switzerland or germany I will be more than happy to add my experience in these countries . To answer your question : yes it is absolutly realistic . But maybe you need some time . I met people in the age of 60 and much older and they have been fine on the way . Your questions addresses two parts : infrastructure/supply and your personal endurance . In Spain you will find a very good infrastructure for pilgrims . Most of the villages seems only to exists because of the pilgrims . You may find one to more pilgrim hostels and classic hostels and hotels ( I recommand the pilgrim hostels for the most pilgrim experience . You are always able to eat in a restraurent , which may be expensive and some beautiful hostel wardens conjure beautiful dinners . Most of the time you are also able to cook by yourself and I think thats the way most people do . Even the small vilages have of course the necessary food offered but this is usually more expensive than in your discount market . If you think , these information are five years old , you 're right . But you may assume , that the infrastucture went better and not worse because of the popularity of the camino . Most of the time , I have enough food to cook for the current and the next day . In your guide ( miam miam dodo , do n't buy it in advance but in the first hostel . ) you will always be perfectly informed about the next stops and the infrastructure . Most of the people are non trained and most of them have just bought their equipment right before the trip . This is not an advice , but something I have observed . The really hard part in spain is your first day if you start in Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port . The part to Roncesvalles is very steep for non trained people : just go slowly , hold on your own pace and make a lot of breaks . Generally , if you not used to walk ( even not in the past ) take a lot breaks ! Just start with 20-22 km per day and you will rapidly see an improvement of your endurance . If you are older or weaker you may start with 10-15 kilometres per day . Do not forgot your own weight and the one of your bagpack : My weight was around 75 kg in this time and my bagpack was 9 kilos without any supply . Add 1-2 kilogs for water and 1 kilo for food . And maybe the half package of nudels from yesterday . Having an bagpack from one day to the other on your shoulders mean your body have to carry about 10-25 % more weight than the day before ! This means a lot of stress for your muscles and maybe bones . For visualization : Imagine how many burgers you have to eat for the same effect - in a very short time . And while these 9 kgs for your own things may be constant , your weight is n't and you may weight less than me . The second " hard " part you may encounter is the " dessert part " called Meseta between Burgos and Leon . This part is very flat and you will see less fauna than the other parts . You may have longer distances between villages than on other places . After this and with the sufficient training on the trip you have built enough muslces for the other parts . Long story short : go for it . Take your time . If you are absolutly unexperienced and un-trained , I hope you have 6-8 weeks for the spain part . So you do not have to go fast and enjoy this very special , unique journey which does not only happen outside you . Buen camino .
The <URL> has an online resource to answer these type of questions . It seems ( after entering some random data ) , that you need a visa even for 1 day .
Any ticket you buy having used that search will be valid for that journey . In some cases this may mean you actually have to buy two ( or more ) tickets , because the " via " station would not normally be on a valid route . Note that if you purchase advance tickets , you are not allowed to leave the train ( or at least the stations ) except at the end points specified in the ticket .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
A good resource for checking train connections is <URL> . There are often good deals on Europe 's high speed trains , though you might only get a good deal to the south of France , not all the way into Italy . It will be hard to beat a budget flight . Obviously on journey time but also on cost . Book in time and your return journey can be as little as 40 pounds with Easyjet . Still , on <URL> you can see that , apparently , you can get a roundtrip by train from London to Italy for as little as 115 pounds . It 's a long journey , but it 's a good price .
According to <URL> you can not extend your stay for more then 30 days and even then in the case of emergency . The good news is that noone yet canceled availability of B1/B2 visas for the citizens of VWP countries . So if you obtain a <URL> , which you should n't have a problem doing you can enter the US for the period of 6 months and hike one of the trails before you have to leave the country .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
In theory , a mountain hut should never send away a tired tourist , especially if he does n't have a chance to reach another safe place before sundown . But in summer some of the huts are so full , that tourist need to sleep in dining room on the floor . In Slovakia , the huts range from small , with capacity of 20 people , to large with capacity of over 100 people . I suggest checking <URL> for information about the hut , find their phone number and under you can check their capacity . As for tents , most of Tatra area is a national park , and in such you are not allowed to camp or walk away from marked hiking tracks .
Get a Window Seat When I reserve a seat on train ( or a plane , for that matter ) , knowing that I would like to sleep during the journey , I often book a window seat . That way I can lean my head on the window , rather than having it hanging in the void , causing me to wake up every ten minutes as soon as the neck ache kicks in . Moreover I place a jumper/t-shirt/soft-layer between my head and the window . This layer acts as a pillow and temperature insulator . As the comments below suggest , the windows seat is also strategically placed so that you will not be woken up when your neighbour needs to go to the bathroom . However , you can always climb on top of the seat , or find another acrobatic way out , in case you are the one who needs to go to the bathroom . From my point of view it is better to be the one climbing over rather than to be climbed over . Pack for Sleeping If you want to sleep , bring sleeping gear . Since you are travelling by train , you do n't have to abide by weight rules for your carry-on . So you can pack as much gear as you like . For me , necessary ca n't - sleep-without-it gear includes : Sleeping mask Ear plugs Travel pillow Some form of cover : blanket , jacket , sleeping bag Anticipate Pickpockets As others have mentioned in the comments : sleeping on a long-haul night train makes you a target for pickpockets/thieves , especially if you do n't have the extra safety of being inside a private/locked compartment . To be fair there is not much you can do to make yourself , and your stuff , completely 100 % thieve-proof . More so if you are sleeping in an unlocked , unsupervised space . What you can do however is make sound assumptions on thieve behaviour and plan ahead . Your objective should be to make your stuff less appealing for thieves because it requires more effort on their part to take it . <URL> and <URL> are some general pickpocket-prenvention tips . <URL> Below is a summary of what I think are the most relevant points for the purpose of sleeping in a train : Keep your money/documents/phone / valuables on you , either in your pockets or in dedicated supports ( for example money belts ) . Clothes and other less-valuable items can go in your rucksack/suitcase . If you have a small backpack/laptop bag , strap/clip/tie it to some fixed support . This can be either your leg , the seat itself , the table between seats , etc. . The point is that anchoring the bag to a fixed support makes it harder to be snatched away . Similarly , you can also strap/clip/tie your rucksack/suitcase to , for example , the luggage rack . Once again this makes it harder to snatch . Lock the zippers on all your bags with padlocks/zip-ties/key-ring / paper-clips . This will obviously make the bag harder to get into . Make sure that the topmost item in your backpack/rucksack/suitcase is something that a thief would have no interest in taking . My personal favourite are dirty underwear and socks , kept in a plastic bag with its opening towards the opening of the backpack . This way its content is the fist thing a potential thief would see , when accessing the bag . I always laugh when picturing what their face would look like . Final Remarks Having said this , note that I somewhat agree with <URL> : If you 're determined to avoid paying for a couchette , [ and fail to find anything else but a standard ( non-foldout ) seat ] book a couchette -- what you 'll spend is less than what you 'd waste by arriving at your next destination too fatigued to enjoy it . This is especially true in case of long-haul train journeys such as the one you mention . Moreover , couchette compartments can be locked from the inside adding an extra level of safety for you and your belongings .
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
I broke down and traveled to to the bus station . They were able to process my refund at the ticket window . I needed to provide ( 1 ) photo id and the ( 2 ) reference number from the confirmation e-mail . The clerk printed the actual ticket , then I provided two signatures to complete the refund . ( I did n't realize a Greyhound bus ticket is NOT a reservation for a seat on the bus on that day like an airline ticket . Even though the confirmation e-mail lists the date and time of the departure and arrival , the ticket was valid for 1 year . I was thinking I need to get the refund before the scheduled date . According to the clerk , I could have processed the refund or used the bus ticket months after I originally planned to leave . )
I checked the website from the <URL> , ( <URL> ) , there is no vaccination needed for that . ( As far as I know , only children get vaccinated for that ) . Check that website , it has a ton of information on the vaccination subject . The vaccinations are not that great anyway ( in the way that they protect you entirely ) . Meningitis can be caused by a virus or a bacteria ( and a parasite or fungus ) and there are over a 100 bacteria/virus strains that can cause it , the vaccinations only protect for a small number of these .
end question
start question
How can I check the current situation in Budapest train station ?
I may be headed that way myself as part of a relief mission for the <URL> . I would recommend the <URL> ... <URL> It is not an ' official ' source and the feed is intermixed with comments that some may find indecorous ( hence my redaction ) . But there is enough ' live ' information to make it worthwhile . The feed includes ' live ' updates from the BBC and other credible sources . You may also find that the <URL> contains very specific information about what to expect on a moment-by-moment basis ... <URL>
Technically , this is not allowed . The <URL> states : If you do not board your train as booked , your entire reservation is subject to cancellation . However , you can call Amtrak and try to change your reservation from Pontiac to Detroit . You may even get a partial refund if the fare would be less .
There should be no problems , unless you 're on a Ukrainian passport , according to the Russian in my team here . Even then it should be fine , you may just experience some questions on your reason for your trip . Of course , as you 're just continuing on to Europe , you 're going to get very little attention . In terms of the city , it 's far from Ukraine and the situation in Crimea . At present , it 's fine . Sure , something might happen between now and then , but it seems unlikely at present . Your best bet is to make sure you have travel insurance , just in case - but it 's unlikely that it 'll need to come into play . Also check with your country 's travel advisory alerts for Russia . For example <URL> points out that in addition to the Crimea incidents , there have been bombings in recent months , including terrorist attacks in Moscow . But again , it 's unlikely , and right now , flights through Sheremetyevo are proceeding as normal .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
One time checking a backpack in for Virgin Atlantic I was offered a giant , durable , resealable ( great for security checks ) , clear plastic bag , similar to a trash bag but thicker , with the airline 's logo on it , to prevent any straps or hooks from getting caught in the baggage handling . Since that flight I 've found that most legacy airlines have these . I 've often encountered check-in agents that did n't know their airline had these , but in every case they asked their colleagues or manager and discovered they did . I 've never been charged for one . I 've gotten these in Europe , Asia and North America .
I believe that using a website like flightstats ( <URL> ) will do the job . You can search by route , flight or airport . If that does not work , checking the arrival airport 's website normally lists all arrivals on the date of your choice as well as where they arrive from and what airline . That would probably do the trick if you do n't mind looking around for a bit . This of course is assuming you are trying to do this as a one time type thing just to see when for example your friend will be arriving ...
Apparently no , according to <URL> Round Trip tickets are station-specific and can be used for 1 return journey on the Airport Express between Airport and the station specified . On the other hand , why would you want this ? Roundtrip from airport to Hong Kong is 180 HKD . However two one-ways airport - Hong Kong and Kowloon - airport is 100 + 90 = 190 . So your savings are 10 HKD , a coffee . However if you really need to save 10 HKD , then do not take Express at all . Take one of the <URL> , which will cost up to 50 HKD . This will be quite slow , but some buses have free Wi-Fi , and you 'll see some scenery .
If you try to book a ticket with <URL> , you can immediately see if there are free seats in the train . You can even try to place several orders in your shopping cart ( for some reason not more than 6 tickets per order ) and estimate how many seats are yet available . For the next few days , the IC 200 seem to have at least 20 seats free , so I would assume that within reason , you can expect to get a ticket on short notice . The cheapest tickets for the train seem to be the MÁV " Zagreb Special " offer for 8990 HUF or about 29 $ . If I understand the conditions properly , there is no contingent for the tickets and they are available for sale even on the same day . At least I am able too book a ticket now for the IC 200 departing in about six hours . You can order the ticket online and pick it up at a Hungarian railway station or buy it at the station .
As <URL> managed to find , there 's information on public transport on the <URL> ( click the British flag in the top bar if it comes up in Dutch ) . It 's actually even easier than the website makes out ! In the baggage hall , there 's a sign up explaining about the two bus options , and with directions to the bus stops . When you exit the terminal , turn left and walk for an epic 20-30 meters , and you 'll reach the bus stops . There 's one stop for the # 50 , one for the # 33 , both well signed . If you have an <URL> , you can use that for the journey . Otherwise , $ 3 in cash paid onboard gets your a single ticket valid for 1 hour . The <URL> runs direct to Rotterdam Central Station , taking about 25-30 minutes . For the west of the city centre or around the station , that 's probably the best bet . Otherwise , the <URL> bus shuttles you out to the Meijersplein metro station , from which it 's easy to take the metro north to The Hague ( Den Haag ) , or south into the city centre . You can use a journey planner like the <URL> or <URL> to work out which 'll be the best for you . Both buses are pretty frequent , every 10-20 minutes depending on the time of day , and you can be at the bus stop in well under 10 minutes from wheels down if you 're travelling only with hand luggage only Depending on how many journeys you plan to take , it might or might not be worth getting an OV-chipkaart . It 's currently <URL> , which reduces the single ticket to the city centre to $ 1.66 , so you 'll need to make a few journeys to make it worthwhile . If it 's open , you can buy one from the <URL> , which is between the arrivals and departure areas ( turn right outside customs , and it 's on your left next to the currency exchange office ) . However , Ako seems to have much shorter opening hours than many other places in the airport , so take care if arriving very early or late in the day ! Otherwise , the people at the information desk just after you exit customs are very helpful , ask them for advice if you need it !
As they are separate countries , you will indeed need two visas - one for Canada , and one for the US . You will need to apply for each one separately . As Algeria is NOT one of the countries eligible for the US <URL> , you 'll need to apply for a visa in advance - <URL> . To get a visa , you 'll need to fill out an application from the Canadian embassy in Algeria for Canada , and the US Embassy for the United States visa . These quite often take time to process , so try and do it as soon as you know when you 're travelling - do n't leave them to the last minute !
" Usual " sales opening To complement other answers , indeed the sales start exactly 90 days in advance on most trains - TGV and Intercités as @audionuma quoted . Be careful though , some trains like regional ones have specific fare policies that include different starting dates , and that depends on each region ( e.g. I tried on the <URL> and I could add a ticket to the cart for a trip in 1 year ) . The price and availability does not vary on these regional trains so no need to book in advance though . However , some products sometimes have different policies on the starting date , in particular iDTGV , Ouigo , TGVs and Intercités . Unusual : TGVs and Intercités for school holidays For the TGVs and Intercités , there are three periods of the year when tickets may be sold earlier : Christmas , winter holidays ( usually in February ) and the summer . If you have a SNCF fidelity card or are a member of Capitaine Train , you shall receive emails warning you in advance of the sales opening for these popular periods . Here I quote an email received on March 28th that sales for the summer ( until August 30th , the last sunday of the summer holiday period ) opened on April 2nd : Pour vous remercier de votre fidélité , nous avons le plaisir de vous informer en avant-première de la prochaine ouverture des ventes de billets de train pour voyager cet été ! Tenez-vous prêt ( e ) ! Le 2 avril dès 6h , TGV et INTERCITÉS ouvrent les ventes pour vos voyages jusqu'au 30 août 2015 en France et quelques destinations en Europe ! I received similar emails for other periods , so in the end the advance booking was available as follows : on November 7th 2014 sales opened until March 9th 2015 on April 2nd 2015 sales opened until August 30th on October 16th 2014 sales opened from December 14th to February 6th These are indicative dates , if you plan on travelling for popular periods and want to take advantage of low prices , you should expect to book around these dates in future years . Unusual : iDTGV and Ouigo For Ouigo , a service intended for low-cost travel , and for iDTGV , another TGV service , the dates are different : on October 1st , 2014 , sales opened for Ouigo until July 6th , 2015 on September 16th , sales opened for iDTGV until March 29th , 2015 So in the end while the common rule is that sales are opened about 3 months in advance , this varies a lot depending on what train you want to take . If you want to travel during school holidays in particular , the sales opening may be earlier ( or later ) than the usual three months . If you want to be notified by email of these sales openings , you can signup for an account at <URL> or <URL> .
After hunting around on the <URL> , I 've found the answer . There 's a handy <URL> available on their site , if you dig down enough In summary : From 3:30 am until 11pm , there 's a 200E bus every 7-8 minutes , which will connect you with Metro line 3 Between 11pm and just after midnight , there 's a 200E roughly every 15 minutes , but you have to change at Határ út M for a 9xx bus to the city From 00:21 until 03:30 , there 's a 900 night bus roughly every hour Exact timings vary , so it seems worth <URL> if you think you might be very late . The latest PDF should be findable from the <URL>
<URL> ( I do n't know if this link is permanent -- just search for trains from Milano to Dijon ) . The train stops at Dijon-Ville . In fact only regional trains stop at Dijon-Porte-Neuve , only Dijon-Ville is on the line from Paris to Lyon , Switzerland and the Alps . Going from Milan to Basel via Dijon is rather roundabout . Unless you get a really good deal and want to save on a hotel night , I recommend taking an evening or morning train ( or even stopping on the way ) . If you leave Milano at 19:25 , you can be in Basel around midnight . If you need to leave later , you can take the last train to <URL> ( but since it 's a small town , check if there 's a hotel where you can arrive at 1am ) and from there get to Basel in the morning .
TL ; DR There 's no easy way to find out this information for JR East shinkansen lines . Information for the Kyushu/Sanyo/Tokaido shinkansen lines is easier to find though . I remember seeing trainset types listed in printed timetables for sale in bookstores ( and sometimes in the station ) in Japan . Here 's an example schedule , <URL> , on Amazon Japan . You can see the row in the image below that has 500 , 700 , N700 , etc. showing the trainset type . <URL> However , upon further research , it looks like the train type is primarily only shown for the Tokaido and Sanyo shinkansen lines . You can find some schedules with trainset types online on <URL> . For the shinkansen lines operated by JR East , it looks like things are n't so straight-forward . You can kind of tell by train type what it is , but there 's unfortunately still some ambiguity . It <URL> with the schedule books you might be able to look towards the back where they have drawings of the trainsets to figure out what service uses what kind train , depending on the number of cars , etc. . For example , if you know it 's a Yamabiko + Tsubasa that 's a total of 17 cars , it must be E2 + E3 , if it 's 16 cars , it must E5 + E3 . Definitely not easy though . JR East 's <URL> ( in Japanese ) shows which trains are combined and which trains they consist of ( e.g. Yamabiko + Tsubasa ) . I did , however , found this <URL> ( in Japanese ) that lists some trainset types , but it does it line-by-line , so from Tokyo to Omiya you end up having to check multiple shinkansen line schedules . It 's also hard to tell which ones are couples together ( since they 're usually on different lines ) .
Yes , you can buy UK train tickets online with the provision of collecting them at the station . The only problem is that ticket vending machines at stations typically only accept <URL> and thus with your foreign Visa / MasterCard , you may not be able to pick up your tickets unless it 's a chip-and-PIN card . For long-distance journeys , <URL> does has an international delivery option which costs an additional 7.50 GBP ( although if you book early you can also get cheap ' advance ' tickets ) . If you do have a chip-and-PIN card , then sites like thetrainline provide you a unique one-time ID - this , along with your card details allows you to print your tickets out at the station itself . For most short distance journeys , you can buy tickets at the station itself . This is not a problem when the station is staffed ( during work hours ) , but can be when it 's not as you will again find yourself unable to buy from ticket vending machines . You can buy your tickets on the train itself when the guard comes checking tickets , but the portable payment system they use usually does n't support anything other than chip-and-PIN cards . Even with chip-and-PIN cards I have often found payments do not get cleared ( PIN is accepted , but transaction is declined ) so it 's best not to rely on that . In that case you have to make sure you carry enough cash on you before you get on-board a train . You may also be interested in <URL> - you can find how much your savings will be by going to the ' train tickets ' section on most train operators ' websites . As mentioned in a previous answer , you also may find it <URL> .
It 's 5 km between the two stations and the best way to get from one to another would be to get a rickshaw ride . It would probably be around 50 to 80 rupees depending on your <URL> . If you do n't have too much luggage , you could opt for a bus , which is , I think 10 rupees . I imagine it is possible to take a train between these stations but according to my search , there are only 5 trains daily , two early morning , one mid-day , two in the evening . Perhaps there are more trains available that are n't listed on the Indian train info website . It 's also possible to take a taxi but the price is probably double the price of an autoricksaw ride .
There are direct trains , which run on the Keisei Sky Access line or the Keisei Main Line between Narita airport and Aoto station , and then continue on the Keisei Oshiage line and the Toei Asakusa line , as shown on these <URL> screenshots . <URL> <URL> Note the triangle-shaped icons to the left of the station names : they indicate that this is the same train running on different lines , so you do not get off the train at those stations . Note also that the Access Express trains ( which run on the Keisei Sky Access line ) take less time , but cost more . By the way , there is currently no direct train leaving Narita airport between 14:00 and 15:00 and stopping at Higashi-Ginza , but there are some which stop at Nihombashi and Shinbashi nearby , which could be good enough for you .
I went to the Chinese consulate and they asked me how I was able to go for 90 days as a tourist . I 've explained that I 've quit my job and am still doing notice for 2 more weeks . She told me to choose ' unemployed ' instead of 'em ployed ' and that I also have to provide : The related C4 document ; A statement of my leave written &amp; signed by my company ; A bank statement as proof I have enough money ( 50 euro X 90 days ) ; A day-by-day itinerary ( containing : proof of transport and hotels , attraction per day , ... ) . I suppose the C4 document is only needed because I 'll stay longer than the default 30 days for a tourism visa . ( The same for the day-by-day itinerary , because last year for less than 30 days , it sufficed to only enter the names of the cities . ) And I suppose the bank statement is needed because I fill in ' unemployed ' .
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
The trains have both heating systems for the winter and cooling systems for the summer . I have not ridden through the Rockies , but I have ridden in the Toronto-Ottawa-Montreal zone and never noticed temperature to be an issue . In the winter you will have your coat etc with you because you will need it for outside . You wo n't need to layer on sweaters or bring a blanket . Your coat will doubtless be hung up or be in an overhead compartment , and your hat , gloves and scarf with it . ( The <URL> says " You may want to bring a sweater as temperatures on the train may vary " which is a useful disclaimer . Sweater . Not sweater , jacket , and blanket . ) It 's possible that if you were right by the door , you might feel a draft while the train was at a station . I always take Via 1 and there are no seats by the door , just baggage compartments and the galley , so I ca n't speak to that . However the door is n't open much because the stations are hours apart . It 's also possible that if the sun was really streaming in through a window that you would feel hot . You could close the blinds if that happened .
end question
start question
Pack of 10 tickets in Metro , Paris , can you share ?
The carnet comes as 10 separate tickets and nothing stops you from sharing with others .
The cheapest way to travel from Amsterdam to Paris is by hitch-hiking . Failing that , early-booked buses are cheapest . For example , if I search now for a Eurolines bus on a weekday late May , I find tickets as cheap as 9 $ . You want to search for Promo tickets , indicated in dark red in the fare calendar . Screen-capture of Eurolines booking system There are probably other bus companies , but probably it wo n't get much cheaper than that .
You can get 1 - or 3 day ( tourist ) passes . More at <URL> . We used them a couple of years ago - they worked just as advertised .
While the answer from a Parisian is probably ' all over ' or ' my local patisserie ' , for those among us who are n't locals , <URL> ( 72 Rue Bonaparte , 75006 Paris , France ) is probably a good place to start . However , they tend to use it as part of other desserts , like their <URL> : Dacquoise biscuit with crunchy hazelnuts , hazelnut crisp , thin wafers of milk chocolate , milk chocolate ganache and milk chocolate chantilly . There 's a website , Parispatiserries , which <URL> : And that Dacquoise itself was really the highlight for me . Not only was the internal texture of it moist and slightly spongy , but it had a beautiful sweetness and surface texture that Mr. Tongue found thoroughly amusing . As an alternative , though , if you wish to focus on it just as a dessert , <URL> ( 25 , rue Jussieu , Paris , France ( Panthéon ) ) also serves it . <URL> and ranks it # 245 of 13,636 Restaurants in Paris .
For 2012 , it would seem you 're out of luck by official routes . The <URL> describes the ticketing structure and process , and the final dates have indeed passed . A <URL> reveals at least one seller of tickets , but I 'd be very cautious buying tickets second-hand - not that it ca n't be done though .
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
Next to travel.se I am also a big fan of <URL> . The userinterface might not be up to current standards , but they seem quite complete in their listings . as expected they do list the <URL> Tickets seems to be available through <URL> , or purchase tickets to events <URL>
Basically , the answer is no . It 's anecdotal but I have heard many reports about people being denied entry to the US based on repeated travel to " unfriendly " countries , never to European countries ( and especially not to the Schengen area ) . Generally speaking , there is a sharp distinction in the US between citizens and residents , whose rights enjoy strong legal protections , and foreigners , for whom everything goes , especially at the border . Not so in the EU . It 's not to say that EU countries are exemplary ( they are not , you can find many egregious examples of that ) but there is an expectation of due process at the border and a rather restrictive list of valid reasons to deny entry . Denying entry based solely on your having visited a third country is not common practice and would probably not be legal . Beyond fraud and intent to immigrate illegally , the main reason to deny entry is that you present a threat to public safety and the hurdle for that is higher than just having visited a country .
If you 're only going to be travelling within London ( i.e. not starting outside of London , and not visiting outside of London ) , then by far and away your best bet is either <URL> , or a <URL> . TFL have a <URL> on the Oyster Card , with details of how to get one . They also have a <URL> which explains what kinds of contactless payment cards they do and do n't support . Prices for Oyster and Contactless are , for most purposes , basically the same , and much lower than paper tickets . TFL have a dedicated <URL> including a handy intro video . One of the great things about an Oyster card or Contactless is that it 'll start out in Pay As You Go mode , then if you happen to spend enough in one day that a travel card would have been cheaper , then it 'll cap the cost at the travelcard fee for the rest of the day . It 's valid on the tube , on buses , on trains within London , and the DLR . If you 're starting from outside London each day , then it may make sense to buy a travelcard as part of a train ticket to London . Depends if you 're going to be doing lots of travel in London or not that day . However , you ca n't buy a ticket that 's ( Somewhere ) - > London , returning the next day , with travelcards both days , you can only get a travelcard valid for a day return ticket . So , if you were to be doing a trip in , travel round London for a few days , then a return , you 'd be better off with Oyster / Contactless . With contactless , you need a bank card / credit card of the right type to be supported by TFL . Check <URL> to see if yours will be . Contactless has the advantage of offering a weekly cap too , which Oyster does n't . Oyster has the advantage of being able to load weekly or longer travelcards onto it , can support discounts for railcards etc ( normally only useful for UK visitors ) , and Oyster can be topped up in one go while Contactless charges once per day , which can make a difference for overseas cards with usage fees . TL ; DR Do n't buy paper tickets for London only - use Oyster or Contactless , or possible a rail ticket with a travel card included in it .
Code sharing and alliances are two different animals . Code Sharing is when airline A blocks seats on airline B 's route from city XYZ to city DEF . Then sells those seats with airline A 's flight number . Airline A may only contract for one code share route with airline B or it may contract for 50 routes . Airlines can code share with whomever they wish , irregardless of alliances . And they choose the routes they feel match their marketing goals and customer 's needs . Alliances revolve more around joint marketing of all members , plus convenice of connecting travelers with fellow alliance members . And while alliance members frequently code share with each other , the majority of flights are exclusive to the operating carrier .
Here are the options I know of regarding buying train tickets in Indonesia : At a train station . Obviously , this sounds like the best idea , but do n't be fooled , you 're in Indonesia and waiting times can be epic . Give it a try , if the queue is huge , just try another option listed below . At a local supermarket ( Indomaret , Alfamart , or else ) . They almost all do it , &amp; the price is the same as indicated on internet . The only challenge can be the language barrier with the employee , but it 's usually easily overcame . After buying , you have a receipt with a train ticket code to print the train ticket at a machine at the train station . Online . <URL> is the official website of the train network of Indonesia . You can see all the train times , but buying ticket seems difficult ( impossible for foreign bank cards ? ) , although good to have an overview of timetable . <URL> is only in Indonesian I believe , but with Google translate it was easy to use it . <URL> is a reseller of train ticket for Indonesia ( no extra fee ) , when buying , you then have a code to print your ticket at a machine at the train station . <URL> is also in English , just change the language using the relevant link at the bottom of the page . I both bought from <URL> and also from the local supermarkets , both worked very well . Just make sure you arrive a bit in advance at the train station ( maybe 45min ) to print out your ticket without too much stress . See the ticket machine below .
I 'd suggest taking a look at the website of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau , which has a <URL> . It lists a number of places ( mostly museums , some galleries ) that have late openings . The page is unfortunately organized by place rather than by what your options are on a particular day of the week , but the " fact sheet " for every place does clearly list " late opening " on the " prices and times " section . Here are a few suggestions taken from that page , but organized by day of the week ( non-exhaustive list ) : Monday : Musée Jacquemart-André ( until 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . Tuesday : Jeu de Paume Paris ( until 9pm ) . Wednesday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) . Thursday : Musée des Arts et Métiers ( until 9.30 pm ) , Musée d'Orsay ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Friday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Saturday : Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) , Musée Jacquemart-André ( 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . There 's also the Palais de Tokyo which is open every day , except Tuesday , until midnight ; and the Musée de l'Érotisme is open every day until 2am . Obviously these times can change , so do check the original " fact sheet " . For most places it also lists until what time before closing time the ticket offices stay open , which would be useful to know . ( Thanks for reopening this question ; the above is a slightly extended version of the <URL> ) .
Being Dutch , I have never heard of such law . I also doubt there is a law that would cover this , I would take it as a try to intimidate you . But also as a ' please really , really do not do this . ' If caught out after you made the picture and before you had seen the sign , I would let them try to sue you . But if seeing the sign before you take the picture , do not take one . If the designs in the shop are unique , they have the right to protect their copy-right , but that would go for pictures of the clothing without it being worn . I would not let me be bullied into buying their clothing , but I would also not take photos of me wearing stock unless I have approval of shop staff . Added : Taking the photo is not breaking the copy-right laws , using the information from the photo might be . But that breaking of the copy-right laws can also happen after you have bought the item , much easier even . So I doubt the judge ( if it came to a court case ) would accept it as reason to be forced to buy the item . I am Dutch , I am not a lawyer but I am pretty much aware of customer rights .
The decision of accepting or not accepting your entry to Ukraine is made exclusively by frontier guard of Ukraine . Notice of Ukrainian Embassy in RF clearly <URL> that : Решение на пропуск граждан Российской Федерации будут приниматься по результатам контроля второй линии . В первую очередь внимание будет обращаться на мужчин крепкого телосложения , следующих в Украину в одиночку или в составе небольших групп . Decision about admission of Russian citizens across the border will be made considering the result of 2nd line control . So what is the 2nd line control in practice ? To learn that we should address <URL> " About border control " . Paragraph 9 of this law concludes : Procedure of 2nd line control is determined by the results of 1st line control . ... This procedure can include : Determination of departure and destination points of the traveler , purpose of travel and the conditions of stay . Additional documents as well as interview can be demanded if necessary . Determination of sufficiency of funds during the period of stay including return ticket or transit ticket to third-party country or ability to receive additional funding legally on the territory of Ukraine . ... As one can see invitation fully complies to the first point of these requirements and can be claimed by the border officer . So your entry ( or rejection of entry ) is completely up to you : your consciousness , self-confidence and behavior on the border , but nevertheless invitation letter is highly appreciated .
Yes , you can ( I did so yesterday ) , for any train in India , as of April 2014 . There is no separate queue for foreign tourists , you have to wait in line at the " Reservation Office " . Expect to spend 30-45 minutes in line . While you are waiting ask the ticket agents for the form , you can fill out your train/address details on the form which will speed up the process once you get to the front ( and make the people behind you happier ) . You must bring your passport . You can pay in rupees .
Do n't pack anything . You 'll find much cheaper , and probably better , plug adapters all over India . Expect to pay Rs 15-30 for simple ones that just accommodate US-style plugs , and Rs 40-50 for full universal ones . You can find them at any general store/convenience store in major cities and tourist locations , but might get a better selection at electrician 's shops .
Local police regularly checks bags at the metro entry , but very rarely they will check visa . If in such case you do not have a passport with you , no one will ask for bribe as @JonathanReez wrote , that 's sounds very funny actually :) ) they will verify your status and that is it , might call the hotel or take you to the hotel . I lived in Tashkent for almost half of a year , used metro and never was asked for my visa , though I know people who very occasionally stopped and asked for documents , they had their documents with them ( usually everyone carries their passport if travelling in foreign country ) , so they were fine . Just keep you passport with you no matter which foreign country you visit :)
About the only difference is noted at the <URL> : Children under the age of 4 may travel without a ticket . So yes , some children get a discount , but not all . However , there is a <URL> , for x number of days which you can purchase , for certain zones and various combos . For this , children under 11 get a 50 % discount , as indicated on the page .
According to their website , they only release some tickets online , so " Sold Out " does n't actually mean you ca n't go , only that the tickets released online have been sold out . From the <URL> they suggest their tickets may be bought out by scalpers : Resellers of our entrance tickets are active on the internet . They buy up our entrance tickets online , and attempt to sell them at a large profit , often for double the price . This is not permitted . Do not buy tickets from these organisations ; you may be refused entry . ... and in the <URL> ... I want to make a timed reservation using the online reservation system on the website , but I see that very few times are left available . Is the service really fully booked , or is there another way to make a reservation ? On the website you can see exactly what times are still available . If you still want to come at a particular time for which no more online tickets are available , then you can always buy tickets at the Anne Frank House entry desk . However , you may have to wait in the queue . The place is almost always busy as noted by many reviews online and from my own experience as well . Here are some tips ( some are common sense ) : Summer months ( especially July-August ) will be a lot busier than other times of the year . Go in winter when people are less inclined to queue outside . Weekends will be busier than weekdays . Check the <URL> and arrive a half-hour before opening ( or earlier ) . The wait times later in the day can reach over 3 hours ( in peak periods ) . Go in the evenings ( after 5 or 6pm ) when the queues are shorter . This wo n't work in Summer however . Some third parties may sell " general entrance tickets " but these wo n't let you skip the line , I think you need to exchange these at the ticket counter When purchasing tickets at the counter , they must be used then , so you ca n't purchase them for later in the day or another day You could try to join organised tours that claim they can <URL> . If you do manage to get a ticket online , this allows entry at a specific time on a particular day , and you wo n't have to wait in line , there is a separate entrance . Finally if you do see a line , <URL> Estimating the wait How can you gauge your time ? If the line is an L shape , ending just along the Westerkerk , that 's about an hour . If the line is an L shape but ends past the Westerkerk and at the Keizergracht canal , that 's two hours . If the line is a Z and has now turned at the Keizergracht canal and is running behind the Westerkerk , that 's three hours . Any longer , well , you do the math .
The carnet comes as 10 separate tickets and nothing stops you from sharing with others .
end question
start question
What trousers/pants do women wear in Baltic cities in winter ?
The key is not magical trousers , but <URL> . You can get these long and parka-style down to the knees ( <URL> ) , and they let you keep warm while wearing basically normal office/home wear underneath . Alternatively , many women opt to just wear a " normal " parka , leggings and warm boots and minimize the time they spend outside , since all offices , public transport etc is well heated anyway . Nobody wears ski trousers unless they 're a ) skiing or b ) work in a job that involves spending hours on end outside . Update : Live from Helsinki , Daughter of the Baltic , it 's TSE 's intrepid fashion reporter jpatokal ! It 's a nippy -15 & deg ; C January day in Helsinki , and here are the results of a highly non-scientific survey of what Finnish women are wearing in 2016 : Around 25 % are wearing long coats that go down to the knees or below . Included in this is a small but notable subset ( < 5 % ) of mostly older ladies who wear fur coats , some right down to the ankles . The remaining 75 % are wearing short coats that go down to the hips but not far below . These are most commonly coupled with above-knee dresses/skirts and leggings , and the mode du jour appears to be leggings ripped at the knees . This ca n't possibly be very warm , but fashion > being cold .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
If your phone charger , and your laptop are relatively new , they should work in Europe as-is , so you only need to bring the power plug adapter . I 've never seen a single-voltage phone/laptop charger in more than ten years . Razor however is different . Even if it says 110/240 , it still might not work due to frequency difference ( i.e. it will work in South Korea with 230V/60Hz , but might not work in France with 220V/50Hz ) . I had a Philips razor which was like that . Note that " razor outlets " provided in bathroom hotels rarely change frequency , only the voltage .
This a plausible stereotype with obvious origins , but one that has absolutely zero documented evidence as being employed as semiotic sign by homosexual community ( now , absence of proof ! = proof of absence . So do n't read this answer as a definitive " no " ) . This is a somewhat lost-in-translation urban slang thing . The term " White pants " has a well known meaning ( <URL> ) , when applied to women . ( while the site is user-content-supplied , the first definition has pretty overwhelming votes meaning it 's not something someone ranomly made up ) . Due to the meaning - which I 'd rather not copy/paste here to keep the site somewhat age appropriate - it 's quite possible that at some point this got morphed into an association with being gay . In general , in popular culture - both gay and straight , unusually looking pants - the more flamboyant the better - are " more gay " ( See <URL> ) . Now , whether white trousers scream " flamboyant " to you or not , is a different question , but they definitely are n't exactly an " everyday normal wear style " . ( Especially if one does n't hang out around golf/cricket players ) The concept of a gay community <URL> is a well documented and old one . Now , the signs are typically less " big " than whole clothing , and also typically signal things a person is into rather than the sexual orientation per se . But the fact is that semiotics is not a myth or a random straight stereotype with no actual manifestation .
In the winter of 2011 Ryanair grounded 80 of its fleet in the US State of Arizona . With fuel accounting for 40-50 % of costs , more airlines are flying significantly less in winter . According to research carried out by anna.aero in the article entitled " Grounding planes in winter improves profitability : The new network planning reality explored among Europe 's airlines " in July 2012 : Airlines generally earn their profits in summer when demand , yields ( and capacity constraints ) are highest . In the past , when fuel was much cheaper , airline economics were dominated by fixed costs -- aircraft ownership , salaries , and the perceived wisdom that aircraft should be kept flying even in winter , even if loads and yields were significantly lower , as this helped to reduce unit cost per Available Seat Kilometre ( at least on paper ) . Although flying less pushes up the unit cost of the flying that does take place , the idea is that unit revenues will go up by a higher percentage as there will be fewer empty seats during the off-peak period as reduced capacity should lead to higher average fares and better load factors . It would appear that other airlines are following suit eg Easyjet , German Wings . The full article including analysis : <URL>
Even though the people who walk past are unlikely to be want to buy a suitcase right now , they are still the target demographic . How many other locations are there in a city where you can open a store where 100 % of the people that walk past are people that travel by air , and thus the type of people that will be in the market for your products ? How many non-airport locations around an area like the San Francisco Bay Area would you need to open a store in order to pretty much guarantee that every person who flies internationally at least once a year walks in front of your store ? A dozen ? A few dozen ? How about if you do it in an airport ? Perhaps 2 ? ( eg , SFO has 2 international terminals ) . Some of the luggage shops you find in airports are for a particular brand . eg , there is a Tumi store in Newark airport . Even if that store was to never actually sell a single piece of luggage , they are building their brand and allowing people to see and try their product range before going home and ordering the same pieces from their website or from another store - all of which works in their favor . The remainder of the stores generally sell high-end luggage which they would likely be able to ship to a home location if someone purchased something and was unable to take it with them or collect on their return trip . At the end of the day , do n't think of these as luggage stores , just think of them as high-end retail , marketing to a demographic that frequents airports ( high wealth/travelers ) .
Checking " Frommer 's Alaska 2004 by Charles Wohlforth " , Wiley Publishing Inc , ISBN 0-7645-3891-8 , we find the following paragraph ... The Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks maintains a fascinating and cool site filled with real-time earth science information about Alaska , such as aurora predictions , volcano watches , earthquake and tsunami updates , rocketry , and space science . ( emphasis mine ) Going to the site , at <URL> , you can find the answers to almost everything related to seeing the aurora , including a graphic showing the forecast for today ... <URL> Auroral activity will be moderate . Weather permitting , moderate displays will be visible overhead from Barrow to as far south as Talkeetna and visible low on the horizon as far south as Bethel , Soldotna and southeast Alaska . Source : <URL> , fair use Looking further into Frommer 's , there 's a first person narrative entitled " Seeing the Aurora Borealis " which gives an informative account of the author 's experience . My copy of Frommer 's is the 2004 version , you can locate the 2015 version <URL> . Checking Amazon , I see used paperback copies starting at GBP 1 . Summary : The site uses a computer model that appears to take all of your parameters into consideration . And so it seems that the book coupled with the university site will have all of the information you need to successfully view the aurora in Alaska ( or any place else where it 's visible ) .
Since 2015 , restaurants in Czech Republic have to use standardized food allergy charts . Since the standardized allergens are numbered , restaurants often list just the numbers for each food , with a legend available ( but the legend may be only in Czech ) . This is based on EU regulation 1169/2011 , which lists the allergens in <URL> : Cereals containing gluten , namely : wheat , rye , barley , oats , spelt , kamut or their hybridised strains , and products thereof , except : wheat based glucose syrups including dextrose ( 1 ) ; wheat based maltodextrins ( 1 ) ; glucose syrups based on barley ; cereals used for making alcoholic distillates including ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ; Crustaceans and products thereof ; Eggs and products thereof ; Fish and products thereof , except : fish gelatine used as carrier for vitamin or carotenoid preparations ; fish gelatine or Isinglass used as fining agent in beer and wine ; Peanuts and products thereof ; Soybeans and products thereof , except : fully refined soybean oil and fat ( 1 ) ; natural mixed tocopherols ( E306 ) , natural D-alpha tocopherol , natural D-alpha tocopherol acetate , and natural D-alpha tocopherol succinate from soybean sources ; vegetable oils derived phytosterols and phytosterol esters from soybean sources ; plant stanol ester produced from vegetable oil sterols from soybean sources ; Milk and products thereof ( including lactose ) , except : whey used for making alcoholic distillates including ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ; lactitol ; Nuts , namely : almonds ( Amygdalus communis L. ) , hazelnuts ( Corylus avellana ) , walnuts ( Juglans regia ) , cashews ( Anacardium occidentale ) , pecan nuts ( Carya illinoinensis ( Wangenh . ) K. Koch ) , Brazil nuts ( Bertholletia excelsa ) , pistachio nuts ( Pistacia vera ) , macadamia or Queensland nuts ( Macadamia ternifolia ) , and products thereof , except for nuts used for making alcoholic distillates including ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ; Celery and products thereof ; Mustard and products thereof ; Sesame seeds and products thereof ; Sulphur dioxide and sulphites at concentrations of more than 10 mg/kg or 10 mg/litre in terms of the total SO2 which are to be calculated for products as proposed ready for consumption or as reconstituted according to the instructions of the manufacturers ; Lupin and products thereof ; Molluscs and products thereof . ( 1 ) And the products thereof , in so far as the process that they have undergone is not likely to increase the level of allergenicity assessed by the Authority for the relevant product from which they originated . In your case , the meal contains # 1 gluten , # 3 eggs , # 7 milk and # 8 nuts .
Barcelona is a great place to visit ; it has been the object of lots of changes some twenty years ago when it hosted the Olympic Games and it has resulted in a general improvement of the area . As you probably know , Barcelona is the town where the Catalan architect Antoni Gaudí worked and it can show some of the best examples of his visionary form of art . You ca n't miss visiting <URL> , the expiatory temple which was recently opened for rites but which is not yet completed , or <URL> , now a public park on a hill which he meant to become an example of integration between normal city life and art and nature . Closer to the town centre you have <URL> , better known as La Pedrera , another incredibly interesting building which demonstrates Gaudí 's genius . All these places can be visited ( the only free one is Parque Güell ) , whereas Casa Batlló must be seen from the outside unless you have arranged a special visit or event . One more thing I would recommend to get the feeling of the place is a visit to the <URL> , an incredible covered food market where you can buy almost anything and where you can easily get a savoury meal for little money . It is just on <URL> , a long tree-lined avenue which goes down from Plaza Catalunya to the port and which is a must-see for all tourists . One museum which in my opinion you can do without is the Picasso Museum , particularly if you have already seen some of his paintings in other places .
Yes , you can wear it , as <URL> does n't have anything against tin foil in any forms . Of course you 'd have to take it off for the metal detector , but that 's it .
Sevilla should be very nice , and you can organize a trip to Cordoba and/or Granada if you wish . Note that if you want to see Alhambra in Granada you should really book tickets over Internet more than a month before travel .
I always thought it was to avoid breathing too much pollution or avoid catching diseases from other people . In fact it 's the other way around . My Japanese friend always wears one when she has a cold because she does n't want to infect other people !
In most Muslim countries , keeping the arms and legs ( and of course the cleavage ) covered would be considered completely sufficient , especially for someone who is visibly a foreigner . Some ( e.g. Turkey , at least the bigger cities ) are much more tolerant and nobody will feel offended by bare arms or legs . The strictest dress code exists in Saudi Arabia , where women are required to wear the black abaya , but not ( at least in theory ) to cover their heads . However , as an unmarried couple you 'd be breaking the law just by spending time together , so you 'll probably not want to go there anyway .
Each person has their own taste , so this questions is almost subjective . However , after living there for four years , I now know there are certain things that EVERY tourist seems to want to do or see . St Paul 's . It 's one of the greatest cathedrals in Europe , and I 've heard people say it 's their European highlight , the pinnacle of sights that they 've seen . On a Sunday you can get in free , although you wo n't have access to everywhere inside . Westminster Abbey and a photograph of Big Ben . When you come out of Westminster tube station , it 's tourists EVERYWHERE . But I suggest coming out at Waterloo station and walking across the bridge to Big Ben - you 'll get a better photograph . Westminster Abbey is just behind it , and like St Paul 's , some of it is free to access on Sunday 's . Note that only residents can go up Big Ben , and even they have to apply to their local Member of Parliament months in advance for a tour . Tower of London . My favourite tourist attraction . I spent the better part of a day here , and could easily go back for more . Get there early to beat the crowds . Right next to it is Tower Bridge - which most people think is called London Bridge . London Bridge is actually flat and boring ;) The London Eye . Giant ferris wheel next to Waterloo station , the queues are insane on weekends . This is a polarising attraction - people either think it 's a waste of money , or a must-see . I 've been twice - during day and night , and loved it . The museums . British Museum , Imperial War Museum , Natural History Museum and Science Museum are the big famous ones , but there are smaller ones too if you search around . The best part is that most of them ( including all the big ones I 've just mentioned ) are free ! The London Underground . It sounds odd , but it 's such a fundamental part of London , that you need to make sure you ride it a few times on different lines . Perhaps in from Heathrow , or to the museums , as it 's nice to walk around above ground in central London , and it 's surprising how close together everything is . Picadilly Circus and Oxford Circus . Walk through , take photo , move on . They 're famous , historic , but they only take a few minutes ;) Buckingham Palace . You ca n't always go inside , and most people claim the changing of the guard is over-rated , but there 's still something about seeing it ! The parks . Make sure to check out at least St James Park , and Hyde Park . London Zoo and Camden Market . They 're close by . Come out of Camden tube station nice and early , check out the market for a bit . Then walk to the zoo - it 's historic , and has quite a few animals you do n't see many of . Bonus sights ! Richmond Park - my favourite park in all of London . Take the tube or overland to Richmond , and ask someone for directions from there . It 's about a 20 min walk to get there , and then you 're in the largest open air space in all of Greater London , with two large herds of deer , and a protected view all the way back to St Paul 's , the Gherkin and the London Eye . Fantastic place on a clear day , or when there 's fresh snow on the ground :) Borough Market and Southbank - close to London Bridge , and open from Thursday to Saturday , the fresh food and coffee is a great start to your morning , before you walk along Southbank to Tower Bridge , or west to Waterloo . London Bridge station , Borough Market exit , west side of Borough High street .
I did the same last year , I just printed the ticket page and took it along to Spain . No snail mail involved .
The nearest one from Barcelona is <URL> ( 30 minutes by car ) . There is a monastery on the top of the mountain . Alternatively you can go to <URL> ( 1 hour by car ) .
[ Disclaimer : my predictions of the behaviour of insurance companies are based on my experience with North American ones . I have no reason to believe European ones are different . ] The word pothole has two meanings . The first is a small area of road a few inches lower than the rest , with sharp edges : This really should n't damage your car . If it does , any insurance company could probably say it was your fault for not driving in accordance with the road conditions . With proper driving , a steady diet of this kind of road might require a " front end alignment " more frequently than usual . It is not worth your time to try to get someone else to compensate you for that . If you break an axle or something else dramatic , it will probably be as a result of improper driving . The second meaning of pothole is a huge round hole that can swallow entire cars : This picture might be fake , but it depicts something that does happen Should you meet one of these , I suspect your insurance company will go after whoever designed , built , and maintained the road , seeking compensation for your damages . They 'll pay you and save you the trouble of pursuing the relevant local government yourself . That 's one of the purposes of insurance .
Use Wikipedia . The names of the cities have a phonetic transcription and very often an audio file . You just have to read , listen and practice . It is important that you practice aloud ! Here are some examples : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Scotland is a big place and there is allot to see in every location . Additionally , the roads on the west coast , such as in Skye , are not fast roads . They twist and turn around mountains and lochs . 20 miles as the crow flies could work out as 100 miles of actual driving . To cover all those locations you 'd spend about 4 days constantly driving and you 'd really see nothing . Focus on say 3 days for one or two cities and then the rest of the week for highland touring . The order of events might be different from what I post . Scottish weather is very changeable . You should try to do city based things on wet days and keep drives in the countryside to sunny days . For cheap accommodation , opt for Bed and Breakfast ( B&amp;B ) rather than hotels . Youth hostels are also a good option . Remember that in peak season , accommodation can be scarce . Book in advance and make use of the Tourist Information centres in each town/village to find out about availability . Day 1 : Edinburgh : Start at the castle : budget about 2 hours to see around . Camera Obscura : Next to the castle entrance and has interesting displays and views of the whole city . Budget an hour . Walk down the Royal Mile . On the way , stop into St. Gyles Cathedral ( 20 mins ) . Find a restaurant near here to eat lunch . Continue down the Mile and visit Hollyrood Palace and the nearby Parliament buildings . If the weather is fine , go to one of the parks for late afternoon . Such as Hollyrood , Princes Gardens , Botanical Gardens . If the weather is poor , head to one of the many museums or the National Gallery . Day 2 : Glasgow : Do this on a wet day as it 's mostly indoors stuff . Museums : Choose one of : Transport Museum , Kelvengrove Museum and Art Gallery , Clyde Built , Science Museum , Scotland Street School Museum . Glasgow has some of the best Indian restaurants . Best time to go is lunch time as most do a low priced lunch menu . Afternoon go shopping in the city centre . Pop into Willow Tea Rooms for afternoon tea , coffee and scones and enjoy the Art Deco furnishings created by Rennie Mackintosh . Late afternoon go to the Necropolis for a atmospheric , if spooky , end to the day . In the evening , enjoy the Glasgow night life in the Merchant City and around George Square . Highlands : In my opinion , the highlands are best approached from Glasgow rather than from Edinburgh . The A81/A812 runs north through the Trossachs . The A82 runs up Loch Lomond side , through Glen Coe and on up to Fort William , Loch Ness and Inverness . The A83 will take you norht then west into Argyle Day 3 : Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park : Head out of Glasgow on the A81 towards Aberfoyle . Stop in at the Glengoyne Distillery to sample the whisky . Remember no drinking and driving . When you get near Aberfoyle , turn left onto the A821 . Pause occasional to admire the views . Stop at Loch Katrine and take the steam boat up and down the loch . Continue on the A821 then right onto the A85 to Callader . Walk through the village and find somewhere here for lunch . Backtrack on the A85 and head north . Again Pausing occasionally at view points . Continue north and west to Crianlarich then turn south on the A82 . At Tarbot , turn left onto the A83 and continue towards Inveraray . Find lodings near here for the night . Day 4 : Argyle : After viewing Ineraray Jail and the Castle , drive south on the A83 to Lochgilphead . Turn left onto the A816 and head north . Stop of at the ancient ruins along this road including Dunadd fort site , the stone circles and chamber cairns at and the church and ancient gravestones at Kilmartin Church and the neighbouring house museum . There is also the ruined Carnasserie Castle in this area which is worth looking at . Continue on to Oban . Lodge here overnight . Visit the McCaigs Tower and walk along the sea front . This is an excellent place to try the Scottish favourite dish - Fish &amp; Chips . For the best experience , take the food out of the restaurant and eat on the sea front . Day 5 : Islands : No trip to Scotland would be complete without visiting on of the islands . Leaving the car in Oban , take the ferry to Mull . Ferries run from Oban to the Isle of Mull and back 6 times daily in summer . <URL> at <URL> . On the island you have a choice of things to see , but not time for everything . Either head south to Iona Abby . This famous Christian site is very interesting . Or else go north to Tobermory - picturesque fishing village . Since you are not driving , you may stop in a the Tobermory Distillery and enjoy a dram of whisky . There is also a distillery in Oban too . Make sure you get back in time for the last ferry to Oban . Again overnight here . Day 6 : Glen Coe : Take the A85 east out of Oban , pause to view the Falls of Laura at Connel Bridge then head north on the A828 towards Fort William . Pause just outside Portnacoish to view the scenery overlooking Castle Stalker . Try to find some hotel before Ballachulish for lunch . Join the A82 east/south signed for Glasgow . This will take you through Glen Coe . Drive
end question
start question
How can I find a good school to learn Japanese in Tokyo ?
If you ca n't find out anything on-line , just take some time when you get to Tokyo . Find the addresses of some schools and actually go there and hang around outside , then ask some of the students for their opinions as they come out for a break . I did this when I learned Spanish in Antigua ( Guatemala ) which is full of Spanish schools .
I presume you are an Indian national . According to the <URL> in a <URL> , you can use an Income certificate or bank statement : 1 . Eligibility for Applicant Nationals of India with ordinary MRP ( Machine Readable Passport ) / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , who wishes to apply for a Multiple Visa for a stay of up to 30 days and are applicable to one of the following categories : ( 1 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan in the last three years and who has ability to pay the travel expense ( 2 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan and travel records as temporary visitor to G7 countries ( except Japan ) in the last three years ( 3 ) Individual with sufficient financial capacity ( 4 ) Spouse or children of the individuals who are mentioned ( 3 ) above 2 . Necessary Documents to Submit ... ( 3 ) Applicant with sufficient financial capacity ( as mentioned 1 ( 3 ) above ) a. Application form ( with Photo ) b. Passport ( MRP / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO standard only ) c. Documents to prove the sufficient financial ability such as income certificate , bank statement , or income tax return ( and some additional documents which certify incomes such as stock dividend , pension , retirement allowance , inheritance , lease agreement , real estate register , deed of property etc. ) d. Applicant 's Certificate of employment e . A letter of explanation stating the reason of applying for the multiple visa ( f. if applying from outside of India ) documents to prove that the applicant legally resides in that country If you go through the entire document , you should have all that you need to submit an application for a visa . Good luck .
Tallinn : Although I do n't attend many concerts most of the tickets are usually being sold on <URL> .
There is , as of now , no general solution for any places , particularly since public transport data is not always freely available , <URL> . For places where public transport data is available , there are sites that let you do draw areas of what you can visit . <URL> has a decent number of cities from all over the world . Note that it may not have access to the complete public transport data ( see e.g. @Gagravarr 's comment ) . <URL> works for Germany , Switzerland , and Austria only , and is able to provide overlays of points of interest . It " knows " all public transport stops in these countries , as far as I can tell , and is thus quite reliable .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
A quick Google search got me to <URL> with Krakow city guide . The map is pretty detailed and is in image form already so you can print it easily . Since I 've already been to Krakow , I can tell you that this map is quite adequate if you plan on visiting major attractions and explore the city center .
There 's a few game hubs in Tokyo , but Akihabara is the classic techy gamer paradise . Plenty of new and used game stores , arcades and curious little shops . In particular : Super Potato , on the upper floors of a back alley building off the main strip . A veritable treasure trove of vintage video games ( Nintendo , Sega , Sony plus weird and wonderful platforms you 've never heard of ) . Lots of rare machines and games too ( including a working Virtual Boy ) . See <URL> for more info . The Sega Arcades ( 8 floor one in Akiba ) - 8 floors of UFO catchers , fighting machines , shooters , the works ) . Take the Electric Town exit from JR Akihabara station and you ca n't miss it The <URL> chain of shops - 5 in all in Akiba , with lots of rare / used games going back to PS1 days . TRADER 4 is probably the best one , but they 're all full of interesting odds and sods . Yodobashi Akiba - a mammoth electronics department store with a massive floor dedicated to recent platforms / hardware / software . A giant version of your usual Gamestops / GAMEs . It 's on the other side of Akihabara station from Electric Town , and is <URL> . For more stores see this <URL> . If you are over 20 there are also lots of cool video game bars to try out . There 's a good few in this <URL> article . Of these , I 've visited 8 Bit Cafe in Shinjuku - suitable for nerds and non-nerds alike , with a comically large cocktail menu , each entry based on some video game ( the Dr Mario one in a beaker with gel pills is excellent ) . See <URL> for more details . They 're based at Shinjuku 3-8-9 , Shinjuku Q Building 5F ( it 's a bit of a nightmare to find , but the linked article has some good images to find the exact stairwell to traverse ) . I should add , for the bars , some of them are video game themed , but not necessarily what we would consider ' gaming cafes ' ( i.e. you can drink but it 's not a place for playing games ) . If you fancy a futuristic theme park experience , try the incredible Joyopolis in Odaiba . A massive indoor theme park made by Sega with incredible rides ( real rally cars playing Sega Rally , a House of the Dead roller coaster ) , a big arcade , Sega-franchise exclusive arcade machines , and a general all-round " this is insane " vibe . See <URL> . It 's at DECKS Tokyo Beach , 1 − 6 − 1 Odaiba , Minato , postcode 135-0091 . Of course , if you 're a real pilgrim you could get pictures outside the Square Enix office in <URL> and the Nintendo office in <URL> ( 5-21-5 Asakusabashi , Taito-ku , Tokyo 111-0053 ) . If you 've anything specific in mind though leave a note in the comments and I can have a think . Update - If you have an international drivers permit you can also do real life Mario Kart around the streets of Tokyo , which is probably about as gamer-cool as it gets . Find out more at <URL> You might also be interested in taking a tour of the Sony Building in Ginza - it 's more than just games , but they usually have a cool selection of the latest Playstation games , gadgets and gizmos , as well as a mini-cinema that sometimes features games / trailer . Take a look at the Sony Building <URL> .
I believe what you 're looking for is called the <URL> . 8 in | 19 cm Ruler Bottle Opener Can Opener Hard-wire Cutters Large Screwdriver Needlenose Pliers Phillips Screwdriver Regular Pliers Scissors Small Screwdriver Wire Cutters Wire Stripper but importantly , NO KNIVES !
The other answers provide a bunch of handy tips for weeding out the absolute worst excuses for sushi , but little help for distinguishing the mediocre from the sublime . How , exactly , are you going to find out about " freshness " before you try it ? No , there 's only one rock-solid reliable indicator of excellent sushi : the opinion of the local Japanese expat community . No matter where you go in the world , there will be Japanese expats there and restaurants that cater to them , in two categories . Category one is for the expense-account salarymen set , who will pay whatever it takes for good sushi ; and category two is for the working holiday/married to local/university student/starving artist set , who occasionally want good sushi but are not willing to pay their monthly rent for a meal . Needless to say , the bang for buck is much better in category two : for example , the expense account set in Singapore liked a joint called <URL> , where dinner starts at S$ 165 + + , whereas students used to frequent a ( now closed , alas ) place tucked on the top floor of the Central shopping mall which did entirely respectable sushi sets for S$ 10 . Stupendous sushi at <URL> in Hampton , an obscure suburb of Melbourne , where the vast majority of " Japanese " food is dire . You will never , ever find this place unless you live next door , or ask a Japanese expat . The hard part is finding out these out , especially if you do n't know any local Japanese residents and do n't speak Japanese . As a rule of thumb , though , there will be always be a web forum that serves the local Japanese community : in Singapore , it 's <URL> , in Jakarta it 's <URL> , in Melbourne it 's <URL> , etc. . Then search for eg . 寿司 ( " sushi " ) or 美味しいお寿司屋さん ( " tasty sushi restaurant " ) , run the results through Google Translate , and you 'll find the best sushi in the place , guaranteed .
My Japanese friend tried this week in Islamabad ( not near the border but better than nothing ) , at the Consulate General of the Islamic Republic of Iran . Conclusion : It is hard to get , but not impossible ! The first time she tried , she was turned down . The second time she tried even harder , and that worked ! She paid a Rs . 5000 visa fee .
The quick answer is yes , you can . Read on for the details What to get You have to get your JR pass from your home country before you leave for Japan , they 're not for sale there ! Here 's a <URL> , search for your region and buy it there . The green car is not necessary unless you want it , it 's like a first class train . How it works Once you have it , your pass is your train ticket , you just show it to board . The JR pass allows you to travel on JR lines ( except Mizuho and Nozomi trains ) , so make sure to avoid the small private networks and you should be fine . <URL> so you will have to go to the station to reserve a seat ( you ca n't do it online ) . Your JR pass means the reservation is free , but you still have to do it . There 's no minimum time before the train leaves , I 've done it 20-30min or a few days before , it does n't take very long , but if it 's a busy route all the seats may already be reserved . <URL> has a great page about this . How to get there Now , with all that said , there are many trains that run between Sapporo and Tokyo , especially now with the introduction of the Shinkansen you have more options , and there 's always an overnight train too . You can definitely do the whole journey on a train only . <URL> is your best friend here , just make sure you check the right options when you 're searching for trips ! <URL>
According to <URL> , you can call them at ( UK ) Tel : 0333 200 1000 . I ca n't find a form matching your exact enquiry online . You can pay a penalty online ( when you get the penalty form ) , or you can pay in advance , but I do n't see a way to see ' Is there a penalty I owe I have n't found yet ? ' Short answer , you need to have " driven by " one of these signs : Here is the actual map :
I have had this problem in other US cities ( and , to be fair , other countries/cities before ) . I think many taxi companies are not that interested in taking advance bookings - either they figure there 's a good chance you wo n't turn up , or they just do n't manage their taxis that way . In either case , in US cities , when booking something like this a day or two in advance , I tend to use something like a limo/black car service instead - which is n't as expensive as you might be imagining ( in other words , can be price competitive with a taxi ) . I tend to use an aggregator - something like <URL> , which searches several services . There are lots of alternatives , though .
If you ca n't find out anything on-line , just take some time when you get to Tokyo . Find the addresses of some schools and actually go there and hang around outside , then ask some of the students for their opinions as they come out for a break . I did this when I learned Spanish in Antigua ( Guatemala ) which is full of Spanish schools .
There are many resources you can look at . You can probably start with official tourist guides for the states such as <URL> or <URL> , but if not you can probably <URL> or use <URL> , which has some of the many rodeos listed state by state .
It 's only larger stores that offer this , but you can always ask . I found a <URL> where someone claimed the Apple stores do offer tax free purchases .
With the possible exception of Niagara ( Niagara Falls is a smaller , more tourist-oriented city , so the <URL> may be somewhat less comprehensive ) , all of the cities you listed should have extensive public transportation coverage . Most cities offer some form of unlimited travel pass , and in most cases a weekly pass is available . I think in general , you will find that the schedules of US public transportation will be a bit looser than you are used to in the UK ( at least from my limited experience of the London Underground ) . Pickup times can vary by 15 minutes or more in many cities without being considered unusual , especially for the bus lines . Generally speaking , you want to be a few minutes early ( 5 or more ) , just to be safe . Philadelphia , as Raj More mentioned , is serviced by SEPTA , and has a good combination of buses , subways and trains . The trains are generally reliable , and provide fast and easy access through the main parts of the city , operating out of 3 main hubs within the city , and provide access to most of the suburban areas . The subways provide good access throughout the city , to the areas not immediately serviced by the trains . The buses provide access to just about everywhere else , although they tend to run less frequently , particularly for the less popular destinations , and their schedules are more ... flexible . Chicago is served by the <URL> that is similar to Philadelphia 's SEPTA train system , providing access to most suburban areas . There is also an above-ground elevated train that provides good access within the city . I am less familiar with the bus system , since during the time I lived there , I took the elevated train ( " the El " ) when traveling within the city . New York 's subway is an excellent means of travel within the city . Edit : I missed Las Vegas , which deserves some special mention . Las Vegas may be a bit atypical , as , much like Niagara Falls , it is largely tourist-oriented . However , it diverges considerably from Niagara in attitude towards tourists . The lure of the free or cheap deal is frequently a means of attracting tourists to specific casinos , and this can frequently be exploited for traveling . Many of the hotels and casinos offer free shuttle services , plus there are a number of non-traditional public transportation methods available : <URL> .
Thanks to a tip from my hotel , I 've discovered there is somewhere open in the mean time - <URL> . The Msheireb Enrichment Centre is located on a medium sized barge moored off the Corniche , just west of the Sheraton Hotel ( the triangular pyramid shaped hotel near the north eastern edge of the Corniche ) The exhibition is sponsored by Msheireb Properties , who 've apparently done lots of building works around Doha . No-one seems to know if it 'll stay long term , or close when the National Museum re-opens , but for now it 's your best bet for a short visit to learn about Qatar 's history and culture ! ( It 's at the other end of the Corniche from the Museum of Islamic Art , but there are public buses running round the Corniche you can take mostly between the two , if you do n't fancy the 4.5 km seafront walk )
Do n't book before you get there . The prices quoted by silent1mezzo are staggeringly expensive , compared to what you can get once you 're actually in Peru . Most 5day tours should run for less than $ 200USD . The first step is to get to Cusco . You can fly there ( landing there is pretty spectacular ) or you can get a cheap bus from pretty much anywhere else in the country . Some people have problems with the altitude in Cusco , so planning a couple of days for acclimatisation and exploring is a good idea . There are some short walks to ruins near the city that will help . There are probably hundreds of tour operators in Cusco ( <URL> that have an online presence , there are many more without one ) that run hiking tours to Machu Picchu . Ask around , or at your hotel/hostel for tour company recommendations as they 're likely to change . If you want to do the Inca Trail , it is recommended that you book well in advance ( months ) , as this is so popular . Because of the popularity it is also very well trafficked and apparently not very charming or enjoyable as a hike ( I did n't do it , so this is just hearsay ) . Basically , I would prepare for there to be whinging tourists to be all about you . There are many hiking alternatives to the Inca Trail which also end up at Machu Picchu . These can all be booked in and leave from Cusco at less than a week 's notice . Salkantay : 5days/4nights , goes high up into the mountains ( 4600m ) and past an unclimbed , snow-capped mountain called Salkantay . Some steep sections . Very spectacular . Choquequirao : A longer trek ( 9 days ) which includes cultural immersion as well as spectacular scenery . Involves 2 days of trekking back from Choquequirao on the same path , so there are some repeated views . Cordillera Huayhuash ( leaves from Huaraz ) : A comparatively quiet route offering solitude and scenery , takes one of two routes near the Cordillera Blanca mountains . Lares : 4days/3nights , Takes in the Quechuan lifestyle . Famous for the textile villages encountered along the way . Crosses two peaks and takes in some hot springs and lakes . Jungle Treks : Most of these involve a short walk , some downhill on-road mountain biking and a bus to Machu Picchu . Not highly recommended if you like hiking . DIY hike : Get to Aguas Calientes by train and continue up to Machu Picchu either by bus or by hiking the the five-mile trail . If you get there at dawn as it opens , your views wo n't be spoiled by the throngs of tourists that arrive later in the day . I should mention that most of these treks will be fully inclusive of include a tent and mat , food , and guide . Some provide a mule to carry your gear either all the way , or part-way with you . I found this against the spirit of hiking and chose to carry my own pack . Other tips : You can befriend your guides by offering to carry some of the food they are lugging for the group ( they will likely refuse , but the gesture is appreciated ) Ask questions of your guide - I found they were not very talkative about the history or scenery but when prompted had quite a bit of knowledge to share Always walk on the high side of mules so you do n't get bumped off a mountain It gets very cold at night at those altitudes , bring a good sleeping bag The sun can be very intense during the day at altitude , bring sunscreen .
Driving the road is 830 miles and not that hard except for the narrow roads , blind curves , etc. . There are villages all around the coast of Iceland . <URL> . Now driving in the unpopulated highlands ( the desert part in the middle ) means driving in areas where there are no gas stations , no farms , no towing and you may have to drive across rivers . Here is a <URL> of driving in Iceland . As you can see , at the time I 'm writing , most all interior roads are impassable . The roads do open up in the summer . Travel guides advise taking spare parts and gasoline . One of the highland roads , <URL> , has an interesting name -- it means Bursting-sand , as in the trail that was long and dangerous enough that you 'd ride your horse as fast as possible ( until they burst ) , or else you 'd run out of food or run into dangerous weather along the way .
end question
start question
What if I use an Interrail pass on a German ICE train without optional reservation , and all seats are sold out ?
First , it is very , very unlikely for German ICEs to have all seats reserved . Many Germans do n't reserve their seats because they either have season tickets or a non-fixed itinerary or do n't want to pay the reservation fee . ( This may change once reservations are included in the ticket price , but <URL> . ) However , it still happens that a train is full of people despite not being fully reserved . Often , this is because a double unit of one of the later ICE builds ( not the first generation ; they are a single train not designed for doubling or splitting ) is reduced to a single unit ( typically due to technical problems ) . In much rarer cases this is due to a demand higher than what can be accomodated ( Hamburg -- Copenhagen was one before they introduced compulsory reservation a few years ago ) . If this happens , there is a number of things that can happen : The train still leaves because the staff decides it is safe . This will typically be the case if there are people standing in the corridors , but it is not fully packed and people can still walk back and forth . Occasionally , the first class is opened to second class passangers ( more likely on regional trains , though , where the price difference is less ) . The train wo n't leave because staff decides it is no longer considered safe . People are then asked to leave nicely , then less nicely . ( Contrary to the other answer , I have never heard of the offer of vouchers to voluntarily leaving . ) The police is called and forcefully removes random people from the train . Once enough people have removed themselves/have been removed , the train leaves with often considerable delay . To reduce your odds of falling victim to the second bullet point , it is helpful to be among the first to board a train , even if that involves an odd bit of pushing and shoving ( seen as highly unfriendly , of course ; do n't overdo it ! ) . Typically , those closest to the exits will be removed if the police are called . Also , when grabbing any empty seat , make note whether the little electronic sign above it notes two stations between which the seat is reserved . Occasionally , it says ggf . freigeben instead , because somebody booked the reservation only shortly before departure , [ 1 ] or it says bahn.comfort for a special contingent of seats offered to the frequent travellers who acquired comfort status . If your seat says neither , it is extremely unlikely that you are removed from the train . The police does not check tickets to remove any passanger preferentially . Finally , the Zürich -- Hamburg train is one that is not too likely to be full -- however , the peak travel times are Friday afternoons and Sundays . During those days you may have a harder time finding a seat . I have n't had a train of that particular relation being too full to leave yet , though ; and it is typically served by the oldest ICE generation . Notes : [ 1 ] : I used to think that ggf . freigeben could also mean the train 's IT failed . Turns out that in that case the signs would read GGF . FREIGEBEN in capital letters , making it easy to distinguish the two . When I saw the all caps version ( displayed on every seat , so obviously erroneous ) , I attributed it to a different ICE build than what I normally travel with .
Promoting some comments to an answer There are various things you might want to consider for your seat : Some seats are near the galley ( can be noisy ) or toilets Some seats have the tray table or screen in the arm rest that can reduce seat width Some seats are n't aligned with a window Some seats have extra leg room in front of them Some seats do n't allow you to put baggage on the floor / under the seat in front Some seats have extra storage space alongside Within a given airline , some planes can have slightly different sized seats to others within the fleet ( eg the 777 planes might have different seating to the 319-321s ) The good news is that there are websites that track all this , who can let you compare seats between airlines , and identify good or bad seats + why ! These sites include , but are not limited to , things like Seatguru.com and Seatplans.com . Search around for sites like that , see which one ( s ) you get on with , then check those . Also , different things matter to different people , so be sure to read the full details . Someone might say " by the toilet , bad , mark as red " , while someone else with bladder problems might decide that that seat is therefore the best on the plane and shout be green !
TL ; DR There 's no easy way to find out this information for JR East shinkansen lines . Information for the Kyushu/Sanyo/Tokaido shinkansen lines is easier to find though . I remember seeing trainset types listed in printed timetables for sale in bookstores ( and sometimes in the station ) in Japan . Here 's an example schedule , <URL> , on Amazon Japan . You can see the row in the image below that has 500 , 700 , N700 , etc. showing the trainset type . <URL> However , upon further research , it looks like the train type is primarily only shown for the Tokaido and Sanyo shinkansen lines . You can find some schedules with trainset types online on <URL> . For the shinkansen lines operated by JR East , it looks like things are n't so straight-forward . You can kind of tell by train type what it is , but there 's unfortunately still some ambiguity . It <URL> with the schedule books you might be able to look towards the back where they have drawings of the trainsets to figure out what service uses what kind train , depending on the number of cars , etc. . For example , if you know it 's a Yamabiko + Tsubasa that 's a total of 17 cars , it must be E2 + E3 , if it 's 16 cars , it must E5 + E3 . Definitely not easy though . JR East 's <URL> ( in Japanese ) shows which trains are combined and which trains they consist of ( e.g. Yamabiko + Tsubasa ) . I did , however , found this <URL> ( in Japanese ) that lists some trainset types , but it does it line-by-line , so from Tokyo to Omiya you end up having to check multiple shinkansen line schedules . It 's also hard to tell which ones are couples together ( since they 're usually on different lines ) .
As a Munich native I simply ca n't just move on after seeing this question =) Please forgive me if I expand the scope of this question too much - but there is simply no way to explain the biggest Volksfest in one or two sentences . There are quite some different factors influencing your chance to get your Mass beer : Yourself If you 're travelling alone and therefore only need to seat a single person you might always get some free centimeters on a Bierbank as long as the tents are not closed . Couples and small groups ( maximum of four or five persons ) who are able to wait patiently and sober ( you wo n't get something to drink as long as you do n't have a place to sit down ) , while a drunken horde is dancing on the tables around them , have a realistic chance of capturing a fair amount of space . But be aware of the fact that you will need to defend the new gained territory against others ! Larger groups really need to develop negotiation skills ( bavarian tongue preferred ) or arrive much earlier . The party tent Beer tents are like clubs : divided in different areas . There are boxes mostly reserved by local companies to amuse their partners , clients and staff . You wo n't get into one if you are not invited ! The largest part of the tents is offered as first come , first served . These areas have the highest demand and get really crowded . Outside and around most of the tents you find so called beer gardens which mostly do not have a roof upon . These places are seeked for by families , elderlies and those who want to escape the enormous noise level inside the tents . Here is a constant coming and going . ( Good chances to catch some seats ) Food is also served out here . The day of choice The first weekend attracts the largest crowds . Simply do n't try to come here on the first day . Local youths and young adults get to the Wiesn on the first crack of dawn just to wait until noon when the first beer is served . Also simply avoid the last day of Oktoberfest : locals mourn about the ending of the fifth bavarian season . People are queuing up in front of the tent entrances already before 7 o'clock . Sounds like the second weekend is the perfect time spot to have some beers ? The one in the middle is traditionally called the Italian weekend . Around 200.000 Italians cross the alps to populate the tents - that could get a bit crowded . On Tuesdays all rides offer special prices for families and kids . That 's why the whole Theresienwiese is jam-packed with small humans from toddlers to teenagers . A good day to escape from the hordes to a tent for one or two ( or some more ) beers . The weather Sunny and hot weather makes the Wiesn show her beauty : Everybody heads to the Oktoberfest and needs to get some beer to cool down . Tents close at least an hour earlier than usually . Bad and rainy weather in the morning keeps the large crowds off . This gifts you some time : the tents close later . On weekdays the tents are sometimes not closed at all . A sudden rain break out in the afternoon drives everybody into the tents . Those might be closed within a few minutes . TL/DR Both statements quoted in the question describe the situation rather good . On weekdays arrive at least before three or four o'clock . On weekends try to get to the Festwiese around 8 o'clock . But as long as you stay friendly and ask kindly you always might find a little spot and you will make contact to great people from all over the world . So have fun , enjoy our beer and have a safe way home . See you in September ;)
I never used a bidet , but in my travels I always have a pack of wet tissues with me . There is a lot of choice around - from individually packed to large , 50 + pieces packs , antibacterial , scented , for make-up removal , etc. . You can choose between hand wipes , facial wipes or even baby wipes . There are a couple of good things about them . First of all , they are versatile - you can use them as a bidet substitute but also to cleanse your hands before/after food , to refresh your face and in general , to clean your skin if it gets dirty . They are much lighter than a bottle of water so can be easily carried around in a pocket or a small bag . In places where water is scarce it seems like a waste to have a dedicated water for the ' bidet business ' . Wet wipes are also easy to share between fellow travellers . And finally , if you are travelling by plane only with the hand luggage , you can take your wet wipes on board ( at least according to what <URL> . )
The hotel wo n't mind if you check in and not use any of their services ... less food eaten equals less cost to them . But while you may not want to officially check out as that might cancel the last night you plan to use , it might be good to let the front desk know you may not be sleeping there every night , so they do n't call the police when your room is empty for three nights in a row . But an all inclusive does n't mean you are stuck there , you could use the rooms every night and set out to explore by day ( at your own expense or maybe with one of their activities if it suits your interests ) . You can head out to eat or eat in , no real restrictions . Is it sensible ? Hard to say , without more details . Is the cost of the package deal ( air , lodging , transfers ) less than the cost of just airfare ? Are there other benefits of the package you want to enjoy that you ca n't get on their own ?
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
<URL> Former London flight attendant Mrs Meho said there 's little cabin crew can do with a corpse , so the priority is to place the body out of sight . " We make the body comfortable , " Mrs Meho said . " Either that means taking it somewhere discreet or lying the body flat and covering with a blanket . If there are not seats we ' prop ' the body up . " " We can place them ( bodies ) anywhere , but not a lavatory , " Sharon said . " We are also given the option of putting an oxygen mask on the person and simply saying they did n't feel well , even if we were sure they had gone to meet their maker . "
I can answer " What risk is there on the ICE to not getting a seat reservation ? " for the Dutch part , as I take this train every work day , without reservation . There is an electronic display above each pair of seats that says on which stretch the seat is reserved , e.g. if it says " Utrecht - Frankfurt " and you sit there when the train is in Utrecht , you are likely to be asked to move to another seat . Many of these people do show up ( but not all of them ) . There are also 6-seat rooms that have the displays besides the doors . There are also seats that say " Ggf . freigeben " . It means that the seat may be reserved , it was available for " Express Reservierung " ( do n't ask me how to do an express reservation ) . In practice you wo n't often have to stand up if you sit here , but it does happen . Many seats will also show no reservation , so it would be best to pick one of those . Most of the time , there is enough place to sit , so a reservation is n't really necessary . On some times and some days the train may be very full , mostly due to inside-Netherlands commuters like me ( we leave in Arnhem at the latest ) , and on some moments like the start of the weekend due to actual international travellers . Then you 're unlucky and will have to stand , but luckily the Bistro serves drinks ... After Arnhem , the train becomes much quieter . I do n't know if it becomes busier again after Duisburg .
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
Short answer : no , you can not take your bicycle into all German trains ( but you can probably reach any destination in Germany ) . Many trains in Germany carry bicycles . This is particularly true for local trains , but also most intercity ( IC ) trains . However , the most common train for long-distance travel is the high-speed InterCity Express or ICE . Usually , on ICE , you can not take a bicycle ¹ . On the website of the German railways , you can <URL> . Select carriage of bicycles required in the advanced search dialogue . Taking a bicycle costs $ 6 . For example , from Norddeich to Basel , if you need to take a bicycle , the fastest journey is 12 hours , 13 minutes , with 5 changes . If you do n't need to take a bicycle , the fastest journey is 8 hours , 51 minutes with 1 change . So in a nutshell : you can probably reach any station in Germany while travelling with a bicycle , but bicycle can not be taken on high speed trains . Therefore , travelling a long distance with a bicycle will take considerably longer and likely require more changes than travelling without one . ( As for your second question ; I do n't know if there is such a service ) ¹ An exception is when the bicycle is folded or otherwise taken apart ; a folded bicycle can be taken as ordinary luggage on any train . I think there are some ICEs that take bicycles , but those are the exception and not the rule . There are reports of people successfully taking bicycles on the ICE , but formally this is against the rules . Your experience may vary depending on how full the train is , on train staff , and on how convincing you are .
Skipping a flight you 're checked in for with bags is generally not a great idea . Since your bags ca n't fly without you ( because Terrorism ( tm ) ) , they have to unload your bags , which will almost certainly delay the flight and piss off the baggage handlers . In other words , doing this would usually be a bit of a dick move on your part . However , in this particular case ( as Doc notes ) , you 're flying internationally from Korea to DTW , which means your bags will be unloaded so you can collect them and take them through Customs . So : Nothing happens , you can simply leave during your layover . The airline will mark you as a no-show for that flight . Nobody cares if you do this occasionally , but the airline will eventually twig on if you do this ( say ) every week and might send you a nasty letter , confiscate your frequent flyer miles and/or ban you from flying with them again . and 4 . See above : you 're required to collect your bags at DTW anyway , so all you need to do is not check them back in afterwards .
Yes , the airline can make changes to a ticket issued by a 3rd party . Whether they will make changes is a different matter . In general , the ticket is deemed to be ' owned ' by whoever booked it - generally either the airline itself , or a 3rd party travel agency . That party is the one that has been paid to issue the ticket , and is generally responsible for making any changes at least up until the start of the first flight . So in general , any changes - at least before the start of travel - will need to be made by Expedia . Some airlines do give you the option for them to " take over " the ticket so that they can make changes , however ( at least in the US ) they will generally charge you for doing this . eg , the <URL> states : UA will assess a 50.00 USD/50 .00 CAD fee to assist with a voluntary change on tickets originally issued via any external ticketing source ( travel agency , internet agency , other airline , etc. ) . The fee is non-refundable and applies in addition to all applicable charges . American Airlines call it a " <URL> " , along with a US$ 25-35 fee . This fee may be waived if you are a high-level frequent flyer , or potentially if you are on a high fare ticket - but often that 's at the discretion of the phone agent . You can always try calling the airline , especially as every airline has slightly different policies , but for something like a change of date of a flight I would not expect them to assist you without paying this fee . If your travel has already commenced then you might have more success .
I 'm surprised that nobody mentioned the infamous " flip them around " technique . Arguably you can use one pair of boxers for four days if you flip them inside out and front to back . Indeed boxers , and tighty-whities , have two degrees of freedom which produce four possible rotations . This does n't really work with thongs due to the difference in surface area between front and back . Just for kicks <URL> . For added comfort you should of course think of letting them dry as much as possible , or even washing them , since exercising in them inevitably means sweating in them . For completeness sake note that if you do n't wash your sweaty boxers and rotate them four times you 'll probably stink . A lot .
The site explains : If all the times are taken , the following message will be displayed : " no tickets available for the date requested " . Choose another day ( or purchase your ticket for immediate entry at the monument ticket counters ) . That says to me that if you ca n't buy online , you can still go up , but you 'll have to wait in a ( possibly long ) line . This is a Monday morning , 9 years ago - I would n't mind waiting in this line ( in fact , I waited in one just like it before I got the picture ) : However , it can clearly get <URL> . Investigate those pictures more closely to see what your chances might be like on a weekend .
You can use child carriers like the Ergo Baby carriers for transporting your infant on and off the plane , but they not appropriate to use while seated / seat belted . Once you are on the plane , the safest position for your infant is in a car seat ( but that means buying a seat for the infant , unless you are lucky and have a half empty flight ) or being held in your lap . You never want to buckle your seat belt around yourself and the infant . Some airlines have a second little seat belt that attaches outside your seat belt for the infant , but these are not real safe and not allowed in some countries .
You can only pass through customs ( or immigration ) through designated ports of entry . This means that unless you have a special pass ( for example , ship crews have special passes ) , you need to go through the customs and immigration process . This is a burden on you as the traveler . It does not matter where you start the journey . Your status in the destination country/territory will depend on your current nationality . For example , if you are allowed to legally reside and visit a country without a visa , you will not be an illegal alien ( to prove this though , you 'll have to provide documentation - like a passport ) . However , there will still be issues with your departure as your arrival was not legal or documented . If questioned by police you will most likely be detained and deported for illegally entering the country . As for goods ( customs ) , it is more restrictive as each country has their own rules on what goods are allowed entry customs free , which goods need to be declared and which goods are forbidden . In either way the burden is on you to make sure your travel is legal and authorized even if you do n't need a visa to travel to the country ; or your port/manner of entry was not through the normal channels .
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
In practice , here is what you can do : Contact a consulate from your own country to get some travel document ( probably an emergency passport ) . Being in a foreign country without one is a perfectly valid reason for that ( even within Schengen ) . It will probably cost you some money and a bit of effort but it has worked for me before . Try your luck with the airline . Some of them like Ryanair are notorious for being picky about that but on some intra-Schengen flights you do n't have to show any ID . Even when an ID is in principle required and driver 's licenses are explicitly excluded , it 's possible to get lucky . This also worked for me before ( see below ) . Cancel your flight and travel back by train . There could still be a border check but it 's unlikely . Worse case scenario : You do get checked and the police/customs keep you for some time . You would still be better off than at the airport because you would already be in your country of residence and they should have means to verify your story . I have done that too , did see some border police officers but I was lucky enough not to be asked anything so I do n't know exactly what they would have done . On one occasion , I have been allowed to fly back home without passport/national ID but only a driver 's license and a few other things like an health insurance card . On their own , these documents prove nothing but they were helpful to convince the gate personnel that I was a resident of the destination country . They were very understanding and let me board the flight , stressing that they only did it because it was a Schengen flight . In summary : I would definitely contact the nearest consulate as soon as possible and consider changing plans but if that 's not possible , do try to board your return flight . Be upfront and honest , you could get lucky .
end question
start question
Is there a website dedicated to odd hotels ?
There are many but , and I think this list may not be all , but certainly most . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Why yes , there is ! And it 's well worth visiting ! The <URL> is located on the airport grounds , on the other side of the airport from the terminal . It 's a ~ 5 minute taxi ride away . You can see most of the highlights in an hour 's visit , alternately if you 're interested in aviation and want to watch the video pieces as well , you can easily spend over 2.5 hours there . Perfect for a layover ! The museum has a good collection of planes , from old to new , and the A320 " miracle on the Hudson " plane too . There 's quite a bit of history , information on how flying works , loads of info on the US airways flight , and friendly staff . When you 're done , they have a seating area outside where you can watch flights arriving and departing , as it 's very close to the active runways . It takes about 5 minutes in a taxi to get there from the terminal . There 's currently ( 2015 ) a flat rate $ 14 fare from the airport to the museum or back again . You can pick up a taxi outside arrivals , and to go back the museum staff will call a taxi for you . On arrival into CLT , head to the Charlotte Information desk in the arrivals baggage area , and ask about the museum . They should be able to give you a discount voucher , and point you in the direct of the taxi queue .
I would not give to much about the official information on those sites , since it 's mostly marketing and/or eventually a few years old and the owner never updated it on mayor booking sites . Fun fact : there is a marketing language in the travel industry ; for example " central location " for a hotel could mean that it gets a lot of traffic or street noise all day long , and you might have trouble sleeping , while " quiet area " can mean that you wo n't have any public transport or other facilities nearby .
Here is a Canadian government website that will <URL> , whether briefly in transit or for a more extended visit . You can enter your country of citizenship and all other information about your trip , and it will tell you if you need a visa , and what visa you need . Some general rules : If you do n't need a visa to visit Canada , you do n't need a visa to transit Canada . This includes citizens of the US , UK , EU and many others . You can not stay more than 48 hours with a transit visa The Transit Without Visa program ( TWOV ) and the China Transit Program ( CTP ) allow certain foreign nationals to transit through Canada on their way to and from the United States without a Canadian transit visa , if they meet certain requirements . You can apply for a transit visa by filling out the application for a Temporary Resident Visa and selecting transit visa from the list of options on the form . You may not need a transit visa if you are travelling to or from the United States . If you are in doubt about your eligibility you can contact your nearest Canadian embassy by email or otherwise .
You can , but it is a very roundabout solution . From Phuket , you must travel to Singapore . From there you can take the Ferry to the port of Belawan . Then travel to Banda Aceh . Another route is from Pulau Aceh which travels to MIN Ulee Lheue . Unfortunately according to here , <URL> , the ferry from Penang was closed . The ferry from Penang is no longer operating . One thing I did notice , have you thought about flying out of Penang ? It seems flights are much cheaper . SIDENOTE : If you fly from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur in early Dec. the rates are much cheaper . Then fly from Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . But I can see why you mentioned this is complicated . ADDENDUM : However , I looked up flights in Air Asia matching early Dec flights . My trip went from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur , then Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . PH - > KL $ 45.25 Dec 3 Depart 8:05 -10:20 AM flight KL - > BA $ 35.75 Dec 3 Depart 13:15 -13:45 PM BA - > KL $ 42.20 Dec 10 Depart 8:50 -11:20 AM KL - > PH $ 48.61 Dec 10 Depart 18:05 -18:40 Total Price : $ 171.81 or 5950.38 Thai Baht
Well as they say : <URL> . There is apparently an application for iOS that can provide you with self-guided tour of Honolulu . There is also another <URL> . All of the guided tours of Honolulu would actually require people to pay but it may be possible that the hotels would offer discounts or even pick up the tab for that but this would have to be investigated locally when you check in . As far as Waikiki is concerned <URL> gives a few but with no indication if someone will guide you through the tour .
I finally found some sites that give such information : <URL> has a quite long list of one-page reviews per area , with lists of critters as well as best months to visit etc. . <URL> has a list per dive-site that has to be reviewed individually . <URL> also has a list of dive sites where people can log their individual dives . So the first site is probably the one to visit first for general information about a larger area , and then it would be good to scout the other 2 to find if someone actually logged a dive there .
It is about $ 10 taxi ride to 40 Hana HWY location . consider than $ 20 in total ( cover both ways ) and than consider if the savings are worth it .
Yes , there are buses , but information on them varies . <URL> suggests a shuttle bus is needed for the last 12km : It 's not difficult to get to Persepolis by a combination of bus and local taxi from Shiraz . Take a minibus ( IR4000 , 42km , hourly ) or savari ( IR8000 , or IR40 , 000 for the whole car to Persepolis ) from the southern edge of Carandish Terminal to Marvdasht , where they stop at Basij Sq. . From here you should be able to find a shuttle taxi ( IR3000 , 12km ) to Persepolis . <URL> suggests you can get a bus directly there . I 'd suggest confirming that at the bus terminal though since it seems a little less authorative . Getting to Persepolis : By Bus from Shiraz : Go by bus to visit Persepolis for easiest travel , take regular and frequently run Buses from Karandish Bus Terminal in Shiraz ; you 'll ride in a bus for 45 Minutes .
Yes , website that reference those codes do exist . CouponsHelper is an example . Better than referring to a website , I suggest installing the <URL> if you use Firefox as your web browser . Basically , every time you come across a website that has coupon number entry , a prompt appears on the top of the browser with known working coupon numbers for that website . It works with various retailers , including travel-related services . For instance , codes are suggested when booking a ticket on the French railways website .
If you are flying economy If you have a baby flying with you : Take the first row of the zone you are setting in . First rows are usually where the fittings for the baby basinets are available . Also , you will be close to toilets to change diapers and so . If you are travelling with kids : Take a side of a row next to the window at the beginning or end of a zone . The windows too keep kids busy and the end or beginning of a zone to be close to toilets because kids are frequent pee-ers and vomiters . If you want to sleep during the flight : Take a window seat in the middle of a zone . In the middle to be away from noise ( lavatories and galleys ) and a window seat so no one bothers you to get in or out . If you are planning to stay awake during the flight : Take an aisle seat , will be easier for you to get out and in anytime you want to stretch your legs or just to get little social in the plane . You are a teacher and traveling with group of kids , like in school stuff : Group the kids in one part of the plane , and take a seat at the very other side of the plane . Travelling with the significant other : Cinema rule apply here , take two seats at the end of the plane either on the left or right . In many wide bodied airplanes the last row on the sides have only two seats due to the shape of the fuselage . No one will be sharing the moment with you ! If you are flying First or business class This is extremely different from one airlines to another , some airlines even provide shower rooms , bars and other services . You will get the best of the airline in these classes , limited number of passengers and many services . So no worries . Please note : I said zone , not class . Classes can have multiple zones , especially in economy class in wide bodied airplanes . A zone is usually the area between two sets of doors with a bulkhead separating them .
You 're trying to book too far out . Many Japanese hotels , especially those not associated with Western chains , only accept bookings for the current and following quarter , meaning rooms for April 2017 may not be released until January 2017 . That said , cherry blossom season is busy , so booking in advance is advisable . If there 's a particular hotel you 're desperate to stay in , contacting them directly via email or phone may be an option .
If for some reason you ca n't do an online meeting or conference call , I have three tips for planning a business meeting ( not a conference or a vacation , where flight convenience is not the controlling factor ) . Know your group When dealing with business travel , it 's important to remember that the ticket price is not the only cost incurred ; time is also significant , especially in case of irregular operations . If you 're choosing between two airports , pick one that is a hub for whichever airline the most members of your group have frequent flyer elite status with . The elite status means less time waiting in line and priority service if something goes wrong , especially if one has a lounge membership . Ultra-discount airlines , on the other hand , are right out . Minimize connections Assuming your group is more concerned about time and convenience than about cost , I would argue the most important thing to avoid for an important business meeting is a connection . On any given flight , you could have weather delays , mechanical problems , missing crew members , air traffic congestion , and so on . When you have two flights , you double the number of times you can experience any of these things , and if they occur on your first segment , you could miss your second segment and end up delayed by hours or even days . On top of this , there is a risk of getting lost at the connection point ( for example , if there is a terminal change from one airline to a partner airline ) , and any checked bags are also far more likely to get misplaced or misrouted during a connection than on a nonstop . Each stop entails additional time , because your aircraft goes through an extra takeoff and landing cycle plus up to an hour for servicing ( cleaning , restocking , refueling , etc. ) . And depending on the route , the hub may be out of the way , forcing you to backtrack at least partially , which also eats up time ( Delta likes to send me BWI-ATL-MCI , almost half again as long as BWI-CVG-MCI would be ) . Nonstops do command a premium , but that 's because they 're often worth it for business travel . So I would aim for a city which has nonstop service from the airports where the various group members will be flying out of . Depending on the particular distribution of your group , this is most likely to be a relatively hub of one of the Big 3 ( United , Delta , American ) , but it could just as easily be a focus city for Southwest , which offers frequent nonstops from medium-sized cities . Most major airlines have an interactive route maps on their website , which will help you visualize service to and from a particular airport . Schedule well On the ground , most things will balance out . Every major airport will have some business class hotel nearby with adequate meeting facilities , mediocre food , and a free shuttle from the terminal . The cost will vary depending on the location , but the cost of the room rental will probably be far below the cost of the flights anyway . But schedule well , both time of year and time of day . San Francisco sees many fog delays in the summer , while Miami gets overwhelmed during winter holidays . Philadelphia gets delays for no good reason all the time . Flight delays cascade throughout the system and compound through the day : when an incoming flight is delayed , it is often delayed in departing again . The first flight of the day , having had all night to arrive and undergo maintenance , is far less likely to see a delay . So do n't schedule a dinner meeting in Chicago in August and expect to have everyone there on the dot .
You can get a dramatic reduction in price without sacrificing comfort and safety by selecting a Paris suburb that has good Metro connections ... <URL> is a short walk to ' Boulogne-Pont de Saint-Cloud ' metro station and a quick search locates decent hotels starting at about EUR 85 . <URL> has its own metro station and a quick search locates brand name hotels starting at about EUR 100 ( better deals on the weekends ) <URL> has brand name hotels in the same price range as Saint-Cloud , but requires a 15 minute walk across the bridge to reach the metro station . The commute from these places to central Paris ranges from 30 ( La Défense ) to 60 minutes ( Sèvres ) . These places are in the western suburbs of Paris . I find that area more appealing for reasons vaguely related to safety and long-standing familiarity ( generally not worth going into here ) , but there would be similar opportunities in the southern suburbs also . Adding ... The answer to your question : " Why are hotels in Paris too expensive ? " is because they can .
Get an Oyster Card or Use Your Contactless Payment Card If you plan on travelling a total of two journeys in two days then you wo n't need a 2-day travel ticket ( nor 2 day travel cards ) as that would be to expressive , as well as overkill . The simplest option would be to get two one way tickets covering the zones you need . These will definitely be cheaper than daily tickets . Having said this , your best bet is to get an <URL> , or even use your contactless payment card . Doing so you 'll get the cheapest possible rates for your travels , and your maximum expenditure will be capped to the same value as that of a day travel card covering the zones you transited . Indeed , <URL> : Only here for a short visit ? If you are only making one or two journeys when visiting London , pay as you go is the best option if you already have a contactless payment or Oyster card . If you do n't have one of these , you could consider getting an Oyster card which you can use whenever you visit London . Alternatively , you could buy single tickets , a Day Travelcard or a One Day Bus &amp; Tram Pass although these are all more expensive than using pay as you go . <URL> , by asking at the manned ticket counter . For more information <URL> , in terms of fares and usage . How About Buses ? When it comes to buses however , note that recently <URL> . This means that you can still purchase a single journey on a bus , but you 'll have to use your payment card . You can of course use your contactless card to take advantage of the reduced oyster fares . The other obvious options is to purchase an oyster card and use that to pay for the bus .
Several hotels in the area listed on Trip Advisor as " pet friendly " but only accept dogs . Blatant discrimination ! La Quinta JFK accepts cats and there is no surcharge .
The Bulgaria automobile club has a <URL> showing which roads are open and which roads are closed . The only problem is that website in available only on Bulgarian , but it 's possible to understand the information : The first section is about the highways ( Автомагистрали ) - their names begin with AM . The second section is about the passes ( Проходи ) - you can check the names on <URL> . When the colour is red it means that the pass is closed ( затворен ) , otherwise they are open ( отворен ) however it 's possible that there are some restrictions , usually for trucks .
<URL> is the group that manages passenger travel within Germany , and is responsible for the managing , ticketing , servicing and running of all German Intercity-Express , EuroCity , Intercity and Regionalbahn trains , and many commuter-oriented urban Stadtschnellbahn ( generally abbreviated as S-Bahn ) networks within Germany . The group also handles the information and customer service side of the operation . Presumably as your train is running from Dijon , France to Basel , Switzerland , it may fall on a route not covered by DB Bahn . Yes , some of the other routes by its partner companies may be included , but there are competitors on the rail network as well , and there 's no requirement to have those included on their site . Indeed , from <URL> : The Deutsche Bahn 's site does n't show fares for most trains outside Germany and Austria .
If you have a specific flight in mind , with the flight number , you can use <URL> , which has pretty good global coverage for most airlines . The duration is shown on the right : actual duration for completed flights and scheduled duration for upcoming/in progress ones .
I tend to use <URL> to look up historical data . Their main mode is kind of interactive browser ( which is fun to play with by itself ) , but they also generate averages reports for all places their system knows about . It 's a little hard to pinpoint accurate location from your description , since Basque Country seems to more eagerly jump to Spain parts in geolocation . Do n't forget that while we think of weather data as related to certain area , it 's actually gathered in very specific points with weather stations ( often airports ) . I got report for <URL> , while searching for it there . You might want to browse around to refine for something closer to the area you are interested in . Their reports have numerous graphs ( temperature , humidity , clouds , winds , etc ) . For temperature I like their " fraction of time " visualizations :
end question
start question
How to visit the Pantanal ( Brazil ) without a multi-day tour ?
A friend of mine and I visited Cuiabá in the summer of 2007 with the intention of visiting the Pantanal . We were inundated by tour guides upon our arrival at the airport and the best deal we could find was a 3 day/2 night tour all inclusive for about US$ 200 per person from <URL> ( if my memory serves me well ) . We decided to wait and explore around town looking for a better deal or perhaps just hitch a ride and try to find a place to stay . The Ecoverde folks gave us a ride to town and let us keep our stuff at their guesthouse . We did n't find anything better after asking around for a whole day and decided to go back Ecoverde . While it was one of the most expensive things we did on our trip it was totally worth it in my opinion . Our tour guide was great , we fished for piranhas , rode horses at sunrise , hunted tarantulas , and the food was pretty good . We saw a lot of wildlife including giant otters , capybaras , crocodiles , and numerous kinds of birds . It was a bit touristy but still tasteful . Plus it seems like its next to impossible to go really far into the Pantanal ( from Cuiabá at least ) without a tour package . You could maybe hitch a ride but you would have no where to stay overnight once you arrived in the heart of the Pantanal . If you like wildlife and serenity then its worth the money . I would recommend Ecoverde Tours .
Difficult . You 're probably going to want to spend a night . In which case you could take a car . IF you wanted to take the train , the service is the <URL> . However , the <URL> , and you wo n't reach Bundaberg until 3.30 pm . Coming back , depending on the day , you <URL> . Then you 've got the <URL> , but there the departure times out of Brisbane are in the evening , so even less useful . Finally , you have the <URL> , which is meant to be one of the top rail journeys in the world . However , for getting to Bundaberg , your departure time in Brisbane is 9am , getting you in at 4pm , and returning times are 9.15 am . They only run some days of the week ( it 's a long line ) . Bus is going to be similar , unless you fancy some wee hour coach journey , if you can find it . Even in 2004 when I was doing a scenic flight out of Hervey Bay ( next to Bundaberg ) we got up early in Mooloolaba , rather than try and get there from Brisbane . Final option - Bundaberg does have an airport , there may be a convenient flight from Brisbane , and you could get a bus/train back , or vice-versa ?
In the end I went to the building outside , and the memorial garden , which was really nice . But from there , the Pentagon is like a giant box - you ca n't see its shape very well . No ID was required , you just walk around . Never managed to get inside , there 's massive security for even walking up to it , and they never replied to me . However , for the best view , go up to Arlington Cemetery ; you get a great view of the Pentagon 's shape from there :)
Promoting <URL> 's comment to an answer ... It 's also on <URL> ! If you do as I did , and select your region from the area I 've labelled as # 2 , it will tell you about the general pattern for trains in your region . This is what tells you roughly how many trains will run on each line on a given day in the strike Alternately , if you look at the large purple/pink box I 've labelled # 1 , assuming you do n't somehow miss it as I first did ... You 'll find the interface to look up the details for a given train , or a given route . Type in the details of the service ( s ) you want , and if it comes up with , it 's all good ! means " irregular operations " and you should check if and when the train calls at your start and stop stations . means " extra stop " , because another train going to this station has been cancelled . Finally , means you 're out of luck , and need to head to the station to get re-booked onto another service . As an example , assuming no changes between now and midday tomorrow , in the screenshot below the people going to Paris ( 5th in the list ) or Boulogne ( 7th ) are out of luck , Rue ( 4th ) are lucky as there 's an additional service , and the remaining the remaining 6 trains are ( currently ) running to time
The bus is always cheaper but the train will be quicker . It wo n't be hard to find either , personally I would take a specialist tour which would take you right up to Stonehenge itself , rather than having to go to Salisbury and then organise a taxi or local bus . For trains from either Bristol or Bath check out : <URL> for National Express Coaches : <URL> But for specialist tours from Bath/Bristol <URL> Hope that helps Edit : You might want to check this too : <URL>
First of all , arriving at 11:45 am and departing at 10:45 pm should be an 11-hour layover , which is quite a lot of time . Quite a few of the popular tourist attractions are reachable by BART train without having to transfer . Also Nate already posted the link to the luggage storing information : <URL> Popular places to visit are Union Square , the Embacedero up to Pier 39 , and the Golden Gate bridge . For visiting the latter , you would need to take a bus or do quite a long walk - probably not so well-suited for an 11-hour layover . The BART will take you about 1 hour each way , but you should have 7-8 hours in the city center then , which should be enough for a first look . As a suggestion , take any travel guide and pick a few places that sound good to you close to Market street and close to the city center to visit . You can also walk from Market street to Little Italy , passing by Lombard Street , and walking back the Embacedero . You see quite a bit of the " real " San Francisco ( i.e. , where people live ) in this way .
First of all , <URL> is very big thing , so address in the Taiga is n't much helpful for you :) Secondary , my apologies about some information is only in Russian , especially maps . The Curch of the Last Testament has their village in the <URL> . Their site is very old , and the only thing working there is the <URL> . Also they have <URL> , and there is the <URL> . <URL> is : 662925 , Krasnoyarsk Krai , Kuraginsky District , d. Petropavlovka , ul . Kolhoznaya , d. 9 . Please note that Tiberkul is named after <URL> , which is situated in 130 kilometers from Kuragino ( district center ) and in 30 kilometers from Cheremshanka village . Other villages near the lake are : Tagasuk , Zharovsk , Gulyaevka . According <URL> and <URL> , the roads to the lake is available ONLY IN WINTER - on snow ( from Gulyaevka and Cheremshanka ) . In other time , you can get there only by two methods : helicopter local citizens 's tankets and tractors :) Also <URL> is some information about some club in <URL> , which regulary goes to the lake on their off-roaders , but this is quite uncertain .
As a Munich native I simply ca n't just move on after seeing this question =) Please forgive me if I expand the scope of this question too much - but there is simply no way to explain the biggest Volksfest in one or two sentences . There are quite some different factors influencing your chance to get your Mass beer : Yourself If you 're travelling alone and therefore only need to seat a single person you might always get some free centimeters on a Bierbank as long as the tents are not closed . Couples and small groups ( maximum of four or five persons ) who are able to wait patiently and sober ( you wo n't get something to drink as long as you do n't have a place to sit down ) , while a drunken horde is dancing on the tables around them , have a realistic chance of capturing a fair amount of space . But be aware of the fact that you will need to defend the new gained territory against others ! Larger groups really need to develop negotiation skills ( bavarian tongue preferred ) or arrive much earlier . The party tent Beer tents are like clubs : divided in different areas . There are boxes mostly reserved by local companies to amuse their partners , clients and staff . You wo n't get into one if you are not invited ! The largest part of the tents is offered as first come , first served . These areas have the highest demand and get really crowded . Outside and around most of the tents you find so called beer gardens which mostly do not have a roof upon . These places are seeked for by families , elderlies and those who want to escape the enormous noise level inside the tents . Here is a constant coming and going . ( Good chances to catch some seats ) Food is also served out here . The day of choice The first weekend attracts the largest crowds . Simply do n't try to come here on the first day . Local youths and young adults get to the Wiesn on the first crack of dawn just to wait until noon when the first beer is served . Also simply avoid the last day of Oktoberfest : locals mourn about the ending of the fifth bavarian season . People are queuing up in front of the tent entrances already before 7 o'clock . Sounds like the second weekend is the perfect time spot to have some beers ? The one in the middle is traditionally called the Italian weekend . Around 200.000 Italians cross the alps to populate the tents - that could get a bit crowded . On Tuesdays all rides offer special prices for families and kids . That 's why the whole Theresienwiese is jam-packed with small humans from toddlers to teenagers . A good day to escape from the hordes to a tent for one or two ( or some more ) beers . The weather Sunny and hot weather makes the Wiesn show her beauty : Everybody heads to the Oktoberfest and needs to get some beer to cool down . Tents close at least an hour earlier than usually . Bad and rainy weather in the morning keeps the large crowds off . This gifts you some time : the tents close later . On weekdays the tents are sometimes not closed at all . A sudden rain break out in the afternoon drives everybody into the tents . Those might be closed within a few minutes . TL/DR Both statements quoted in the question describe the situation rather good . On weekdays arrive at least before three or four o'clock . On weekends try to get to the Festwiese around 8 o'clock . But as long as you stay friendly and ask kindly you always might find a little spot and you will make contact to great people from all over the world . So have fun , enjoy our beer and have a safe way home . See you in September ;)
You could try contacting Luhambo tours , who do daily tours leaving from Cape Town . Small groups with specialised wine guides . +27 21 551 04 67 . If you want to do it yourself , maps , information on vineyards that receive and accommodate visitors and advice on getting to them are all available from the very helpful people at the <URL> in Stellenbosch . Also have a look at Wikitravel 's page on the <URL> . It mentions several other tour companies that include half-day and single day tours . Quite a range of prices too ! It also lists down the bottom the famous wine estates of the region , including their opening times and contact details .
Some friends and I did some searching , asking at cycling shops , etc , and could not find anyone who rents bicycles . So I followed @Berhard 's advice and bought a used one for R$ 160 ( ~ US$ 72 ) and will either sell or give it away when I leave .
While I 'm not in Tbilisi myself , my wife and children are at present in Georgia , having been in Tbilisi during the flood and the following week , although they now went to the summer house in the mountains . I have been speaking with them almost daily - so this is almost a first person account . Severe flooding did occur a couple of weeks ago in Tbilisi , resulting in both human and animal deaths and many injuries and physical losses . The long-term effect of it though is n't that great , from what I understand . The only long term " damage " as far as the tourism is concerned is the zoo . It was all but wiped out by the floods . It 's not open to the public at present . Other than that , the city continues operating just as it did before . There 's water , electricity and gas ; telephone network and internet are fine ; public transport runs fine ; all shops , restaurants , etc. are open ; museums are open according to their normal summer opening hours . Public paths along Kura are open , however parts of them are rather wet from rains that took place over the last week or so . Naturally , the aftermath is still visible in Mziuri park and the Heroes Square , as well as throughout the city , but all these places are open to the public . So , all in all , it 's still a great place to visit . I myself will be flying there at the end of July - but I have family there , so floods or no floods , I 'd have to go . If you 're interested in any specific venue or place , it should be easy to find that out .
TL ; DR : Yes . The Northern Territory is huge , and spans a range of climates from sopping-wet tropical to bone-dry desert . The <URL> ( Dec 2015 ) are primarily around the Daly River/Waters region , several hundred kilometers south of Darwin , and both Darwin itself and the tourist hubs of Alice Springs and Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , over 1000 km to the south , are entirely unaffected . All three have direct flights from Sydney . All that said , it 's <URL> right now in NT , meaning the tropical bits get a lot of rain even when it 's not outright flooding . Down at Uluru though , it 's summer and thus very dry and hot .
Visas are issued for a specific purpose , and the type and duration of the visa issued are based on the purpose that you requested it for . The actual conditions described on the visa form one part of the conditions and intent behind the visa , but they are not the only conditions that apply . So in this case , the conditions on the visa are that you can stay for up to 30 days on each visit , and can have multiple visits . However such a visa would not have been issued with the intent that you could basically live in the country - if that was the expected intent then a different type of visa would have been issues . Why this matters is related to one of the most misunderstood areas of visa - a visa does NOT give you the right to enter a country , even if you are fully applying by the conditions of the visa ( stated conditions or otherwise ) . At the end of the day , the immigration officials at the border always have the last say as to whether you will be allowed into the country . If they believe that your visa has been obtained fraudulently ( including mis-representing the time you intended to stay in the country ) , if they believe that you are not entering the country in line with the terms of your visa , if they believe you are entering the country to commit a crime , or for any other reason , they can deny you entry to the country at the border . So whilst you may have a visa that states multiple entries up to 30 days , each time you re-enter the country the immigration official will look at your history of entries/exits from the country , and after a number of 30 days in/7 days out entries they will almost certainly begin to suspect that you are breaking the conditions of the visa - they might think that you are in the country to work , that you are residing there , or any number of other things that would be against the conditions of that type of visa . They might even simply suspect ( correctly ! ) that your repeated short trips outside of the country are " visa runs " ( trips with a sole purpose of extending visa validity ) which are generally covered in immigration laws as not being allowed . The second time you enter the country odds are this wo n't be a problem . But sometime after that - well before you make it even close to the 1 year mark - someone is going to spot the pattern , and put you on a plane back where you came from . Nobody is going to be able to tell you if that 's going to occur on the 3rd visit or the 10th as it will depending on a number of factors including the exact type of visa , the particular immigration official , the answers you give to the questions they ask you , and countless other things - but it will happen eventually . Immigration law is something it 's best not to test the limits off . The results ( ranging from cancellation of a visa to be banned from entry to a country for up to 10 years or more ) just is n't worth the risk !
After completing the travel without incident , I can confirm that Indian citizens with a valid non-tourist USA visa are indeed exempted from certain visa requirements to travel to Colombia . I faced no issue at the airport or immigration , as both airport staff and border agents were aware of the rule .
There are plenty of buses to Eugene from other cities . From Eugene there is a bus to the McKenzie River Ranger Station a few times a day <URL> From there , its a 10 mile hike . Could make a nice little backpacking overnight trip .
Yes . Emirates offers nonstop flights from Dubai ( which is on the continent of Asia ) to both Rio de Janeiro ( GIG ) and S & atilde ; o Paulo ( GRU ) . Qatar Airways has nonstop service from Doha to S & atilde ; o Paulo . Near-misses : Etihad has <URL> that it will fly from Abu Dhabi to S & atilde ; o Paulo starting in June 2013 . Turkish Airlines flies from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Istanbul , whose airport is in Europe but is only 16 km from the Asia side of the Bosporus . These appear to be the only nonstop Asia flights . <URL> shows flights from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Seoul ( Korean Air ) and Singapore ( Singapore Airlines ) , but they have stops in Los Angeles and Barcelona respectively .
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
Sevilla should be very nice , and you can organize a trip to Cordoba and/or Granada if you wish . Note that if you want to see Alhambra in Granada you should really book tickets over Internet more than a month before travel .
Your best bet for public transport access to the Ontario North is <URL> . They run scheduled buses from Toronto to the north , including Temagami ( but not Hiawatha , wherever that is ) . It is quite a trip , stopping at various small towns you wo n't get to otherwise . If you want to get to the real remote areas your best bet is the Polar Bear Express train to Moosonee - it 's as remote as you can get without flying , which I assume is outside your budget .
end question
start question
Are there ways to call " international " toll-free phone numbers ?
Generally The simple answer is : you ca n't ... from a normal phone . Toll-free numbers are specific to the phone exchange system of a particular country and thus when calling from a VOIP phone provider like Skype or calling from a different country 's network the call wo n't get routed through correctly . Your alternative to insist on asking for the version of the toll-free number with an international dialling code . In most cases , toll-free numbers are simply forwarding call internally with a phone exchange and by changing the prefix , you get the real number . In the UK for instance we have <URL> which provides listings of direct numbers . North America A more complicated answer is that for countries under the <URL> such as <URL> they all have a common numbering system and toll-free calls will be supported . This may or may not always work depending on whether the toll-free number owner allows such calls : see <URL> . Skype <URL> . This covers US and UK among major countries , which should cover a wide range of financial , airline , and travel assistance numbers . Manually change the country to the one you 're dialling to from the drop-down list in Skype 's phone pad if you do n't want to type in a number with international dialling code .
Most locals just call it the City , when it 's clear from context that you are talking about the local area . You could say : " I 'm staying at a nice hotel in the City " . This will be understood to mean " within the San Francisco city limits . " ( Incidentally , this is a <URL> than most outsiders might guess ) . In writing , capitalization is optional . Otherwise , simply call it " San Francisco " . There is n't a shorter nickname in common use . It is a lot of syllables ; locals tend to say it fast and slur a bit , something like " Sanfruh sisko " . Spanish speakers should note that , as with most Spanish place-names in California , most English-speaking locals use a semi-anglicized pronunciation . " San " is rhymed with " ban " , " man " , " tan " . " Francisco " sounds like the English name " Francis " plus " ko " , but the accent is still on " cis " . The vowel in " Fran " is either the same vowel as " San " , or else an unstressed " schwa " vowel . " SF " is acceptable in writing ( especially headlines , text messages , etc ) , but not so common in conversation . " SFO " refers to the <URL> but not the city . I personally have never heard or seen " SFX " . " San Fran " and " Frisco " are deprecated and will tend to mark you as an outsider . Locals tend to find " Frisco " particularly annoying . This goes back <URL> . ( I think there 's a convention that people who work in the airline industry are " allowed " to say " SanFran " . So the agent at the airport ticket counter might tell you " Your bags are checked through to SanFran " , but do n't take that as an indication of general practice . ) If you want to refer to the greater metropolitan area ( including Oakland , San Jose , etc ) , and not just the city proper , it 's " the Bay Area " . This is further subdivided into " North Bay " ( north of the Bay itself , e.g. Marin , Sonoma , Napa and Solano Counties ) , " East Bay " ( Oakland , Berkeley , and the rest of Alameda and Contra Costa Counties ) , and " South Bay " ( San Jose and its immediate suburbs ) . There is no " West Bay " . The ill-defined region between San Francisco and the South Bay ( including South San Francisco , San Bruno , etc ) is " the Peninsula " . As a side note , I do n't think locals use the term " Silicon Valley " much ; they 're more likely to refer to specific cities like Palo Alto , Santa Clara , etc. . ( Source : born and raised in the North Bay , and visit frequently . If there are emerging trends that differ from this , suggestions are welcome ! )
From what it appears having looked on travel comparison sites for available flights there are no direct flights between Moscow &amp; Tenerife . You did n't mention any particular date of travel so I chose a week departing 3rd April , returning 10th April 2013 . Sample results from the comparison site kayak.co.uk indicate flights with a stop over in either Barcelona or Madrid ( note the duration of travel ) . Tenerife being a part of the Canary Islands are located directly west of Morocco , and are far from mainland spain . I thinking getting on any type of sea faring vessel from Spain to Tenerife is not ideal ( unless you were planning a cruise ) . If I were you , I am aware that EasyJet recently started flying between London Gatwick &amp; Moscow , and also fly from London Gatwick to Tenerife ( flying time approximately 4 hours ) . I would strongly suggest consulting them , as an alternative : <URL> Like I say you have n't mentioned date of travel , prices may vary considerably if it were June instead of April ( as I gave in the example above ) .
Yes , the situation has greatly changed since 2001 :) Today you can get into Saint Petersburg in many ways by ferry : By St. Peterline company ferries : by <URL> Monday , Thursday , Saturday at 19:00 from Helsinki ( you 'll be at St-Petersburg at 09:30 AM next day ) by <URL> ( sorry , only link in Russian are available ) Wednesday , 09:00 AM from Stockholm without going through Tallinn 's port ( you 'll be at St. Petersburg at 11:30 AM next day ) Saturday , 19:00 from Stockholm with visiting the Tallinn Sunday , 18:00 from Tallinn ( you 'll be at St.Petersburg at 8:00 AM next day ) By AS Tallink Grupp company ferries ( with changes ) : From <URL> you can go to Stockholm , after that use first variant From <URL> you can go to Helsinki , after that use the first variant There is also <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ferries , if the schedule of two first variants is not applicable , but you 'll also need changes . I found the <URL> company , and they are serving many interesting routes in Baltic sea : You can get to Helsinki from <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , and after that use the first variant . You can directly get <URL> from Lübeck or Sassnitz in Germany , or from Ventspils in Latvia : Wednesday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Sassnitz at 05:00 AM at Thursday , departure at 07:15 AM , at Ventspils at Friday 00:00 AM / 04:00 AM , and finally at Saint-Petersburg at Saturday , 08:00 AM ) Saturday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Ventspils ( no stopover in Sassnitz ) at Monday 22:00 AM / 00:00 AM , and at Saint-Petersburg at Tuesday , 08:00 AM ) Update : I strongly recommend minimizing travel time on Russian ships , mainly because of their service level . Ferries are old German ships , and servicemen are not as positive as on Finnish lines . Please do not think this relates to Saint Petersburg where service has highly improved in the last 10 years . Update 2 : Added information about another ferry from Germany via Latvia by Finnlines .
Yes , at least in Germany there are two kinds of " hostels " : The first kind of hostel and the one generally meant by " hostel " is the youth hostel ( Jugendherberge ) which is managed by the DJH . You need to buy a member card ( also available on the fly ) to stay there and if you are over 27 , you must pay the full price ( which is still very low for a year ~ 15 $ ) . You are also less ranked than young people so if the house has many young visitors you may not get a room . Additional info : In Bavaria , a state of Germany , it was forbidden until 2005 to stay at a youth hostel if you were over 27 . Perhaps your friend comes from there ? The other " hostels " are meant for backpackers and do not need a card as they are private . Both hostels are not so cheap anymore , I have found pensions and hotel rooms with much more comfort which were only slightly more expensive . So look out for room prices .
This is a US term meaning that seats are not pre-booked but grabbed on a first-come first-served basis . The term originated with Southwest Airlines , which was the first airline to eschew seat assignments at booking or confirmation time ( or at least the first well-known airline in the US ) . Here 's an <URL> : The " cattle-call " seating policy on Southwest has its downside , which is competition with your fellow-passengers for an early boarding pass . By now , most people are familiar with Southwest 's policy for seat assignments -- they do n't have any . You just walk on board the plane and pick the seat you want as long as it is n't taken . The first person to check in gets a boarding pass with a " 1 " on it , the second person a " 2 , " and so on . In other words , passengers choose their own seat , and they get to choose in a first-come , first-served basis . After a few years , Southwest <URL> to allow passengers to reserve a seat in advance , for a fee . <URL> Starting in early November , customers of Southwest Airlines Co. will be assigned a letter-number combination on their boarding passes , which will reserve their spot in their boarding group . According to a Southwest statement , when a gate agent calls a boarding group , passengers will take their place in their numerical order . However the term " cattle-call seating policy " <URL> even Southwest no longer practiced the " cattle call at the gate " approach where everyone in the terminal would scramble to be first in line . The cattle call changed to a scramble to be the first to check in online ¹ to get a higher boarding priority . Today the term is used to mean a first-come , first-served seat assignment policy , i.e. no booked seats . It is occasionally used outside air travel , e.g. <URL> : And once all the reserved seats are gone it 's back to general admission otherwise known as the cinema cattle call . ¹ Which is the case on most airlines anyway .
Honestly , I would stick with couchsurfing . I hate to sound like the news and say craig 's list can be dangerous , but I know some people that have had bad experiences ... really bad experiences . I would say stick with a site that validates users . If you do n't mind working , you can always go with somethign like <URL> . Also , working in a hostel is usually a pretty good gig . Free place to live and some cash . Typically you can easily find work at one by just walking in and asking .
See " standard warning " at end re the inadvisability of snorkelling alone . It depends on what you want to see and do , but a brief answer is " almost anywhere that you see sea-water . Auckland is not renowned for its water clarity , but it can still be fun ( speaking from personal experience ) . You 'd want to stay away from the sewage ponds at Mangere , and some of the major creeks/streams that drain storm water from industrial areas . The Auckland East Coast beaches are all relatively safe . Rock areas between beaches are not usually anywhere as violently dangerous as the West Coast beaches but have numerous rock pools and relatively low depth areas with a reasonable amount of sea life . I 've never done it , but the old explosives wharf - now just <URL> - zoom out to see where you are - would be fun foir snorkelling . There MAY be a " no swimming " requirement - but probably not . I 've fished there , but never swum . <URL> is an utter gem . Several hour ferry ride so not zero $ but it 's a completely different world . Beaches and hidden spots with few people ( and a few very strange ones :-) ) . An utterly superb summer venue ( good also in winter but colder ) is " Goat Island Bay " a few hours by bus North of Auckland , but worth the trip . Transport may require some ingenuity - but to get a bus most of the way for $ NZ1 see below " The Naked Bus " . " Goat Island Bay " is the site of a university marine research station and also a marine reserve where all marine wildlife is protected . I snorkelled there some years ago and have never seen so many fish anywhere else in NZ . This may not always be what happens and things may have changed in more recent years , but you can inquire re the latest situation . <URL> <URL> The Naked Bus Company <URL> provides a bus service which covers much of New Zealand ( both main islands ) and which can cost as little as $ 1 full fare IF you book far enough ahead . As the date gets closer prices rise , but are usually still reasonable . A ride to Warkworth ( near GIB ) in March is still $ 1 on some days at some times . On March 8th you can catch an Auckland To Wellington bus for $ 9.99 - IF you book now . <URL> <URL> Standard warning - which will be ignored : There are no places anywhere that are good for snorkeling by yourself if you want to live to a ripe old age . Snorkeling is at the very benign end of hazardous underwater pursuits . While it 's about as safe as any such activity , it 's not wholly safe . But , you know that . I had a friend who frequently engaged in a ' safe ' water sport by himself in Auckland . He died . He was very competent and very experienced and everyone was extremely surprised . But , he 's still dead . Nobody knows exactly how it happened , but there is a good chance that if he had had a " buddy " present that he would have lived . Auckland map : Purple - best likelihood of calm and somewhat clear conditions . Waitemata harbour ( East/right ) is bearable for swimming . Sometimes Orca come in past the harbour bridge ! Rare . West Coast beaches ( red ovals ) are GREAT fun but great care needed . Careless people die . Muriwai - long ocean beach with breakers . Rocks to south of road access . People fish from here and on occasion get swept off and die . A competent snorkeller WITH FINS could have great fun there . I would only do it with wetsuit and fins !!! Piha . Bus from Auckland . Great surf beach . Some interesting rock pools , blow holes . You can swim around Lion Rock . Surf can be large . Getting back in through breakers cvan be demanding ( ask me how I know :-) ) . Karekare - South of Piha ( no circle ) . Bus maybe . Rangitoto Island - Ferry from Ak . Few people . Rugged lava coastline . Water as good as anywhere here . Waiheke Island . Ferry . Some lovely beaches , lots of rocky bays , headlands , ... . <URL>
Generally , new and longer-distance trains will , older suburban ones wo n't . Quite a few have them in first class , but not in standard . CrossCountry Voyager trains have power available in most seats , and a nice seating plan : <URL> East Midland have power on their ' Meridian ' trains but not their HSTs - <URL> South West Trains do n't generally - it appears that some of their carriages do ( <URL> ) , but it 's not publicised ... Virgin West Coast Super Voyager have power at all seats . Pendolino First Class have power at all seats . Pendolino Standard Class have power at seats with tables . <URL> Virgin East Coast Seats with tables have power ( all first class seats have tables ) <URL>
Yes , there are definitely squat houses in Paris Today , in contemporary paris you can find alternative political and cultural activity in various squats or social centers . These are abandoned buildings ( often government owned ) that have been occupied and re-appropriated by groups of artists , performers , activists , musicians or just people that need a roof over their head . Paris has seen many years of this squatting tradition and though many of them have been closed down , a lot are opening and some have managed to become legitimate and are supported by local municipalities . Some squat houses have been closed due to health and safety but are still available to look at For example the very famous squat " electron libre chez robert " which is situated right in the heart of Paris at 59 rue de Rivoli was once said to be the 4th most visited tourist attraction of Paris and so was closed to the public a couple of years back due to health and safety precautions . However , when walking by rue de Rivoli you can still admire the eccentrically decorated facade of this typical Parisian apartment building . Some Squat Houses can be viewed Les Frigos Many squats are home to the ateliers and workshops of artists , the " Les Frigos " for example is home to about 100 artist ateliers , although nobody lives there . This 80 year old building was once a giant refrigerator producing ice hence its name which means ' the fridges ' . Now it has been re-appropriated by numerous artists and its facade is filled with some impressive graffiti and mural art <URL> an immense building ( about 5000m3 ) with around 15 people living permanently and a collective of about 50 people occupying the ateliers and workshops on the three floors . They have a gallery which is very well known and often shows quite avant-garde work of upcoming or even established artists . As well , they often organize what is called a ' fête du quartier ' ( neighborhood party ) which includes concerts , performances , theatre and an " open scene " where anybody can come up and perform <URL> Not far from " La Générale " , in the 11th is a squat that was opened last year and has been very active in the neighborhood ever since . Installed in an ancient school , " La Petite Rockette " has established a very good name for itself with a variety of open courses ranging from capoiera to IT classes for the elderly . They have a very busy schedule packed with expositions , concerts and theatre . Their impact on the neighborhood is really evident and the fact that everything is run by volunteers makes it all the more impressive . As it is relatively speaking quite a new squat , there is a lot of energy and motivation to keep things active and fresh . Quoted information from <URL> 59 Rivioli is also a well known squat The 59 Rivoli is a building right in the heart of Paris that 's full of nothing but artist 's studios . There 's a gallery on the ground floor that has a new exposition every 2 weeks . In the beginning , it was a squat that was started by artists looking for a place to work , live and show . The artists opened it to the public 6 days a week . It 's now legalized and still open to the public who can come through and visit the artists . Unlike a gallery where you only see a small amount of the artist 's work , at 59 Rivoli , you get to truly enter into an artist 's universe where the work is actually created . Other useful links ; <URL> <URL>
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
The best advice you can get is from the guy that work late night in your hotel . Ask for things that he/she does in their free hours . Why late night ? Usually they have some concierge services that work only during the day and try to give you the standard advices . I also got some very good deals asking taxi drivers but the better ones were from bus drivers ! So , the advice is : ask someone local . Try something like : " what would you do if you want to ... "
It 's complicated , but as always , <URL> . The short version is that in the vast majority of cases , the baby will inherit one or more citizenships from its parents through <URL> , and nothing more . If the baby is born within the territorial limits of a country that applies <URL> , including flying overheard and within nautical limits , the baby may be eligible for citizenship of that country as well . If the baby 's parents are of unknown citizenship , stateless or citizens of countries that do n't do jus sanguinis at all ( not sure any exist ? ) , and they ca n't get any citizenships via jus soli ( eg . birth occurred in international waters ) , the <URL> will kick in : Article 3 For the purpose of determining the obligations of contracting states under this convention , birth on a ship or aircraft shall amount to birth in the territory of the State that gives its flag to that ship or aircraft . So the birth will be treated as if it occurred in the country that registered the plane or ship . This does n't mean the baby automatically gets that country 's citizenship , but the Convention aims to ensure that if they ca n't get anything else , they 'll get this as a fallback . Since not all countries have signed the Convention , and not all countries that signed it have enacted it in law or in practice , it 's still possible to fall through the gaps . Post any interesting cases in the comments ;)
It 's pretty well explained on the <URL> . For each night you book , they record how much that night was . Once you 've hit 10 nights , you can book a hotel night for free for the average rate of those 10 nights . If the hotel you want to book is cheaper than the average , it 's completely free , but you loose the extra . If you want to book a hotel that 's more expensive than the average of your 10 nights , you have to pay the difference It 's all done on excluding-tax prices , and you ca n't put your free night costs towards taxes . So , if your average rate is $ 75 , and the hotel you want is $ 70 + $ 10 taxes , if you redeemed for that you 'd have have pay the full $ 10 in taxes , and you 'd " loose " the final $ 5 of your free night . If you log into their website , it 'll show you how many nights you 've done towards your 10 , and the average rate for them . You 'll see something a bit like this , with all the details quite clearly explained :
There are three common situations : The country you are departing has outbound passport control Once you cross the line you have officially left the country as far as immigration is concerned . You must pass through immigration to exit this area back to the public spaces . In some cases , like Vancouver , it 's not really " passport control " . It 's just a guy who checks your boarding pass and tells you that you can not return this way ( he has no authority other than calling someone else who does ) . But it 's effectively the same thing . Canadian immigration gets passenger lists from the airlines and does n't bother you on the way out . The country you are traveling to has remote pre-clearance . The USA does this from Canada and Shannon , Ireland . Once you cross the line you have officially departed the current country and entered the destination country as far as immigration is concerned . You may travel directly to your destination , usually without any further interactions of any kind with immigration or airport security ( rather dependent on the gate arrangements at transfer airports ) . The country you are departing does not have outbound passport control Or at least not at this departure point . You mix with other international and domestic travelers and board your departing vessel . You are considered to have departed when you pass the boarding gate . Note the repeated use of " as far as immigration is concerned " and " considered to have departed " . The departure lounge is not an embassy , it is still the sovereign soil of the departure country and if the local police want you for anything they will just walk in and grab you . If the American pre-clearance staff object they will be bluntly told to shut up and get out of the way or get arrested themselves for obstruction ( pre-clearance staff are not diplomats ) . In all the above cases , once you are " considered to have departed " you have met any immigration limits you may have . If you do this one minute before midnight on the day your visa expires you will not be considered to be overstaying . If your flight/ship/bus / train is cancelled you will usually get a short-term readmission as you did " leave " and the fact that you are still here is beyond your control . if immigration really wants you to leave you might even get a free hotel room for the night . Flights in the Schengen zone are considered to be domestic flights - there is no passport control . Tax easements ( duty-free shopping ) have more to do with your intentions than position within the airport . I 've been to airports where the duty-free shops are in the public spaces . You show your boarding pass , buy what you want , and it 's delivered to your departure gate ( which also nicely bypasses security ) . If you do n't have a suitable boarding pass you simply pay the tax-in price . If the airport construction allows it ( Heathrow for example ) transiting passengers remain in the international area and have no interactions with immigration . This is purely a convenience and cost-saving measure . If you are wanted by the police for something serious they can and will arrest you in the international concourse . If , in this example , the UK does not wish to admit you for any reason you are fine here as you do not officially enter the UK . Passengers transiting between airports ( Heathrow - > Gatwick happens a lot ) DO require admission to the UK , which is occasionally denied . This means you go back to your departure point rather than your destination . Legal rights of the departure country extend up to the time the airplane 's wheels leave the ground ( not sure about ships ) . If you punch out the cabin crew while taxiing to the runway , the local police will be called . Do it after takeoff and it 's really the pilot 's choice to return and land or fly to the destination - legal authority passes to the air carrier 's country of registration after takeoff but the pilot can choose to accept the local authorities rather than carry a problem for 10 hours . If the departure country 's authorities decide they want to invite you in for tea and biscuits after takeoff , they can request that the airplane return or land at another airport in the same country . If the pilot refuses they either let you go or shoot the plane down .
No , the limit is a total amount you can bring in , regardless of where or when on your trip you bought them - so if the limit is 200 , and you 've got 100 left from your outbound trip , you can buy another 100 on the way back to take you back up to 200 .
According to <URL> : Various insurgent groups continue to operate in the Shan , Mon , Chin ( Zomi ) , and Karen States of Myanmar , along the Thai and Chinese borders . Travel to these regions generally requires a government permit . The government also restricts travel to Kayah State , Rakhine State and Kachin state due to insurgent activity . However travel is entirely unrestricted to the districts of Yangon , Bago , Ayeyarwady , Sagaing , Taninthayi , Mandalay and Magwe . So it appears that according to that , at least , there are still restrictions . However , there 's no date given , or source . So next , we 'll go with the <URL> : There is high risk to your security along the borders with China , Laos and Thailand and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel . Military activity , ethnic militias , armed drug smugglers , and the presence of landmines pose a particularly high risk to your safety . Travel restrictions are in place in most border areas and there are only a limited number of legal crossing points . There is high risk to your security in the state of Rakhine where the government has imposed emergency measures following serious civil unrest and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel . There is some risk to your security elsewhere in Myanmar due to the unsettled political situation and threat from terrorism and we advise caution . This was current and updated today , so it seems that there are still some restrictions , although it 's sort of vague . Back to <URL> : Much of Myanmar is closed to foreign travellers , and many land routes to far-flung areas are also closed ( for example , to Mrauk U , Kalewa , Putao , Kengtung ) . Thus , while travellers can travel freely in the Bamar majority Burmese heartland , travel tends to be restricted or circumscribed in other places . In theory , any tourist can apply for a permit to visit any restricted area or to travel on any restricted land route . In practice , it is unlikely that any such permit will be issued in a reasonable amount of time , or at all . Permit requests can be made locally in some cases ( for example , requests for the land route to Kalewa can be made in Shwebo ) but , in most cases , the request has to be made in Yangon . Requests to visit restricted areas must be made at the MTT ( Myanmar Travel and Tours ) office in Yangon ( Number 77-91 , Sule Pagoda Road , Yangon ) . Applications for local permits can often be made at a local MTT office or at a police station . As of writing this , local permits are available only for the following places &amp; routes : this for you . Mrauk U Chin / Zomi village tours . Easily available in Mrauk U but must visit with a guide . Your hotel or a local tour company can arrange this for you . All other permits must be obtained in Yangon . Finally , the <URL> ( they call it Burma ) , with some really good detail on the restrictions : On 31 August the Burmese government announced restrictions on access for tourists to Sittwe and Mrauk-U and a curfew remains in force across much of Rakhine State . We advise against all but essential travel to Rakhine State . The current curfew times are 18:00 to 06:00 , but this may change . We advise any British nationals in Rakhine State to check timings of the curfew locally and follow any instructions . The British Embassy in Rangoon stands ready to provide consular assistance . British nationals working for NGOs and other companies should keep in close contact with those organisations . Following this outbreak of violence , a number of demonstrations took place in Rangoon . While protests have not been violent , we advise that you avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings . The Burmese government restricts travel to most border areas . There are a limited number of legal crossing points , but these could close without notice : You must exit Burma at the same border crossing from which you entered , and Burmese immigration officers may request to hold your passport until your visit is complete . Do not attempt to cross any border illegally or enter restricted areas without the appropriate permissions from the Burmese authorities . The Ministry of Hotels , Tourism and Sport maintains a list of approved destinations . Tourists can visit Rangoon , Mandalay , Bago and Irrawaddy regions without restrictions . Other destinations are subject to limitations : access by air or train but not by road . Queries on permission should be directed to the Burmese authorities , not the British Embassy in Rangoon . See www.myanmartourism.org or call the Ministry of Tourism on +95 67 406129 . Be particularly vigilant if travelling to border areas . There is ongoing military activity close to borders with Thailand , Laos and China especially in Shan , Karen and Kachin States . There is ongoing conflict in parts of Kachin State and the far north of Shan State . Th
You can easily fly to Zurich . The connections from Brussels to Zurich are way better than the connections from Brussels to Basel . And from Zurich you 're in less than a hour in Basel when you take the train . The prices for that train travel start around 15 Swiss franks . The SBB ( Swiss national train carrier ) has an <URL> . I found flights for around 300 euros for next week ( with <URL> ) You could also fly over Geneva to Zurich which is cheaper ( around 200 euro ) . Then I would think about only take the first leg of the flight , leave the plane in Geneva and take the train . But this really depends on the actual date and time you 're going to fly . You could also fly to Geneva , but this is a little bit further away from Basel . The train takes <URL> . There are also other airports nearby which may be useful ( even if I doubt it ) . This are particularly Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein .
According to the <URL> , the phone has two versions : GSM 900 / 1800 GSM 850 / 1900 - US version Obviously you have the EU version ( GSM 900/1800 ) which will not work with the US networks which are ( GSM 850/1900 ) . For more information : <URL> .
That 's a lot of questions , son . The cheapest way to stay in touch with your family is to install <URL> or an equivalent service on your phone , and then call from some place with wifi . If you both use Skype , it 's absolutely free even for video calls ; if you use Skype to call their mobile or landline phone , you 'll pay a few cents per minute . Just be sure to use wifi , not roaming , or the data costs will be murderous ! Here 's the basic logic : since it 's you who 's roaming ( = in a different country ) , you pay all the extra charges if somebody calls you or you call someone . In other words , if your family calls or texts you , they pay for the call/text to Canada ( because that 's where your number is ) , and Bell will then charge you for forwarding the call/text to the US at some astronomical rate . If you get a US SIM card , you now have a new number in the US . ( And since your old SIM card is no longer in the same phone , it 's now unreachable ; you need to tell everybody your new number . Of course you can always swap it back when you return . ) If your family calls/texts your new US number , they pay the cost of the international call ; if you call out to Canada , you pay . One catch : you need to ensure that your phone is " unlocked " , so it 's allowed to change SIMs . Call up your operator and ask . There 's absolutely no point in getting a new phone , all you need is the SIM . I 'm currently visiting the US and have been reasonably happy with AT&amp;T 's <URL> ( link to random but informative blog post ) , which you can get set up for $ 20 or so , although you 'll probably want to pay $ 25 extra for 1 GB of data . Then a major caveat at the end : the above is how things work in 99 % of the world . The US , Canada and other <URL> countries are kind of messed up , since they share the same country code and they do n't distinguish between mobile and landline numbers , making it generally impossible to figure out where any given phone number is actually located and thus complicating the normal logic of " caller pays only for where they think they are calling " ... so while you 're guaranteed to get reamed if you roam anywhere in the world , in the US/Canada/NANPA it 's possible that people calling you get reamed as well . Yay for telcos !
end question
start question
US citizen flying from Spain to Toronto with a Spaniard - customs/border difficulties ?
Right now , no , you do n't need to do anything in advance , <URL> without an advance visa . However , effective March 15 , 2016 , they will require an <URL> if arriving by air . This will not be required when crossing land borders . The <URL> is 1.5 L of wine per person , so if your bottles are 750mL , you 'll be one bottle over the limit . The <URL> will help you figure out the cost ; as an example , the duty on a bottle of 15 % wine that costs $ 20 is quoted at $ 11.23 .
If your wife has an article 10 residence card , she does not need a visa if she travels with you . The UK 's residence card for the family member of an EEA national is an article 10 card . She is also entitled to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passports queue when she arrives in the Schengen area , even though she does n't have an EU , EEA , or Swiss passport , because she is a " person enjoying freedom of movement under Union law . " Your marriage certificate is enough to establish her right of free movement , but it is not by itself sufficient to exempt her from the visa requirement . This may account for the variation in the advice you 've received . The freedom of movement directive is <URL> . Beneficiaries of the right of freedom of movement are defined in article 3 . Paragraph 1 says : This Directive shall apply to all Union citizens who move to or reside in a Member State other than that of which they are a national , and to their family members as defined in point 2 of Article 2 who accompany or join them . Article 2 defines " family member " to mean , among other relations , the spouse . Article 5 , paragraph 2 says : Family members who are not nationals of a Member State shall only be required to have an entry visa in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 or , where appropriate , with national law . For the purposes of this Directive , possession of the valid residence card referred to in Article 10 shall exempt such family members from the visa requirement . ( Emphasis added . ) Article 10 , paragraph 1 says : The right of residence of family members of a Union citizen who are not nationals of a Member State shall be evidenced by the issuing of a document called ' Residence card of a family member of a Union citizen ' no later than six months from the date on which they submit the application . A certificate of application for the residence card shall be issued immediately . The entitlement to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passport lanes is in the <URL> . Article 2 , paragraph 5 : ' persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law ' means : ( a ) Union citizens within the meaning of Article 20 ( 1 ) TFEU , and third-country nationals who are members of the family of a Union citizen exercising his or her right to free movement to whom Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 21 ) applies ; ( Emphasis added ) Then , in article 10 , paragraph 2 : Persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law are entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) of Annex III . They may also use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part B1 ( ' visa not required ' ) and Part B2 ( ' all passports ' ) of Annex III . Thus , as long as she is traveling with you or joining you , your wife is a " person enjoying the right of free movement under Union law " and is therefore " entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) . "
I am Ukrainian , just took a weekend trip to Norway ( flying from/to KBP ) and there were no issues whatsoever at border in either direction . [ update ] Well , that escalated quickly ... According to news due to tension with Russia border with them is " nearly locked down " . According to reports : Russians coming are getting denied entry in droves Ukrainians going are getting asked for things like proof of funds for stay and medical insurance , which is n't typical procedure .
I think that is very subjective as it is up to everyone to choose their style . Living on the Côte d'Azur , when I go to the beach , usually it is the older people that wear speedo-style swimwear , most of the young people wear shorts . The population is mixed so there are several people wearing speedo-style swimwear . But honestly , I do n't think people care and I have n't seen people weirdly looking at others . In fact , beaches being crowded , you mostly care about yourself getting space . So to conclude , wear what you feel comfortable with . Most likely nobody will look at you and make you uncomfortable .
Unfortunately , Dividend Miles is a " dead-end " program . The <URL> turns up nothing , and even a <URL> is now impossible . Some of this reflects general cutbacks in frequent flyer programs and some of it reflects the pending merger with American Airlines . Dividend Miles will almost certainly be merged into the much larger AAdvantage program , or into a new successor program , so there is no point to adding new partnerships . I do advise you , however , to keep the account active until you can redeem from it . If you participate in AAdvantage , these miles will be transferred or converted to that account within the next 12 -- 18 months ( if the Delta/Northwest and United/Continental mergers can be cited as precedent ) . If you do n't regularly fly OneWorld and have not been consolidating your miles in another OneWorld program , this could be the one to keep accruing to until you can spend them on something useful . <URL> in your Dividend Miles account will refresh your activity date , no matter how small . Charging $ 1 on your DM credit card to earn one mile would be good enough , or getting 6 issues of Cigar Aficionado for 400 miles would be good enough . And there are many <URL> ( RDMs ) . You do not specify how long you have before expiration , but let us assume it is less than the 60 days you should allow for credit from a program partner . Fortunately , you can still <URL> miles , which will reset your activity counter within a day . Miles to purchase cost $ 0.035 per mile plus 7.5 % tax ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 37.63 . Miles to share with a friend or family member cost $ 0.01 per mile 7.5 % tax and a $ 30 processing fee per transaction ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 40.75 . You can reactivate the account . The fee for doing so is a sliding scale based on the mileage balance : $ 10 for 1 -- 4,999 miles , $ 50 for 5,000 -- 19,999 miles , <URL> . There is no fee to donate miles . The minimum number to donate is 1000 . If you do not have an AAdvantage account and truly do not foresee ever needing one ( e.g. you accrue your OneWorld miles to a different program ) , it would be reasonable to drain the account by buying magazines and newspapers -- or gifting them to a friend , school , library , etc. -- or by donating them . But do drain it ; there is no point to letting miles expire , as they are then of no use to anyone .
According to <URL> there are no toll costs on driving from <URL> . You would spend about 50 GBP on Tolls if you were to drive all the way from <URL> .
Yes , you can absolutely get a Chinese visa from a Chinese Consulate in the US as a non-US citizen . I know , because I did it myself a few weeks ago . The only additional information required with your application is that you will need to provide proof of legal status in the US - this means BOTH your original visa ( which obviously they will return ) , a copy of your visa ( which they will keep ) AND either an original and copy of your I-94 card OR a printout from the CBP I-94 website if you do n't have a physical I-94 card ( www.cbp.gov/i94 ) Otherwise the process is exactly the same as for a US citizen applying , so follow the instructions as per the consulate website . Personally I applied in person at the San Francisco consulate and the process could n't have been smoother or easier ( or cheaper ! Only $ 30 for a non-US citizen to get a Visa ) , however if you are far enough away that getting to your nearest consulate is a problem then you will have to get a visa agency/broker involved as the Chinese consulates in the US do NOT accept applications via mail .
To answer your questions : Can I leave with my Canadian passport US law says you must leave the US " bearing " a US passport , but there is no consequence for breaking this rule . The US does n't have exit checks , so there is no practical difference what you " leave with " . and let my mother bring my U.S passport to me once it finishes processing and enter with it when I come back to the U.S ? Yes and also will the immigration know that my US passport is still processing when I present my Canadian passport when I leave ? ( that is if I do n't receive my passport by the time of my flight ) hoping to get answers on this . . As mentioned above , the US has no exit checks . So you do not " present " anything to " immigration " when you leave the US .
My Japanese friend tried this week in Islamabad ( not near the border but better than nothing ) , at the Consulate General of the Islamic Republic of Iran . Conclusion : It is hard to get , but not impossible ! The first time she tried , she was turned down . The second time she tried even harder , and that worked ! She paid a Rs . 5000 visa fee .
Good news . As a British citizen , assuming you 're visiting for under 90 days , you do n't need a visa . You can apply through the Visa Waiver Program under the <URL> ( Electronic System for Travel Authorization ) . <URL> : British citizens : please note that from 12 January 2009 all nationals and citizens of Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) countries - including the UK - will be required by law to obtain an ESTA travel authorization prior to traveling to the United States under the VWP . Our Visa section has full details of this on their Visa Waiver Program &amp; ESTA . It 's very easy to apply , costs $ 14 , and is valid for 2 years . <URL> . I 've done two applications in the past 4 years , and both were approved within days ( normally immediately , but the first time had some issue with their system confirming payment had gone through ) .
The border between Algeria and Morocco is closed . A legal ground crossing is not possible at this time . The only common neighbor is Mauritania . Even if the borders are ( legally ) open , you will have to cross regions where <URL> . There are direct flights between the two countries . It depends from where and to where you want to fly . As an example , Air Algérie and Royal Air Maroc have direct flights between Casablanca and Algiers . There is another possibility , if you want to avoid flying . You can sail from Morocco to Spain , go to Alicante , by train or bus , and <URL> . There are other options as well , such as Nador - Almeria / Almeria - Oran . You have to search a bit , what is available and possible during the period you want to travel . Some routes are seasonal and ferries do not leave every day .
You have to confirm with your rental agency that you 're allowed to do that . In Europe most agencies allow you to travel in all countries of central and western Europe , but forbid you to visit countries in the East , like for example Belarus , Poland , Croatia , etc. . However , it will be likely that your rental agency will bill you an extra fee if you want to cross the border . Normally it is around 100 Euros . Then a personal hint from me which you have to be careful about : There is no real border between Spain and France , so the chances are high that you 're rental agency will not notice if you drive to France . However be aware if you have an accident in France and did n't tell the agency that you will cross the border , you will have big trouble . Btw if we are talking about the Pyrenees : When planning your trip you should keep in mind that the roads there are really hilly and you will need much time to get from one place to another , even if it looks close on the map . And there are only a few passes between France and Spain which you can pass by car . However I can really recommend the region . Was there this summer with my own car , and it is really nice there and worth the trip !
Before you travel - book early Make sure to book early enough so that you can get seats with access to a bassinet ( travel cots ) . You need to call the airline directly to reserve such seats . Note that a travel cot/bassinet does not count as a seat for the baby . You 'll still have to hold the kid during take-off and landing . If you do not manage to get a bassinet , bring a baby carrier onto the plane so that you can strap the baby onto you , so that you do n't have to hold him/her the entire time . If you do want to shell out for an seat for the baby , check ahead of time whether your car seat will fit ( hint : in some low-cost carriers , it may not , since the seats are too narrow ) . Before you travel - be aware of the rules and regulations You are usually allowed to take e.g. breast milk with you through security check ( <URL> - while security procedures are similar in many places , check you local regulations as well ) . You can use that to take non-breastmilk liquid for babies as well . You can usually check-in a car seat at no additional cost ( even though you have not paid for a seat for the child ) . Pack it in a sturdy plastic bag , not all airlines will provide you with one . You can usually bring a foldable ( but not detachable ) stroller directly to the gate , which helps you to limit your child 's mobility , if needed . The stroller will have to be gate-checked , which tends to be a bit less of a damage-risk . Check with the airline , though . At the airport You need to check bags anyway ( diapers , lots of baby clothes ... ) ; limit the amount of carry-on luggage so that you have your hands free for the kid ( and the stroller , and the toys the kid just threw away as you hurry towards the gate ) . The airport may have fast-track queues for families with small children , as well as special waiting areas . Use them ! Although you are allowed to pre-board , you may want to choose to board at the very end only , especially if the child is already mobile and does n't like to be confined to its seat while waiting for other passengers to find their seat . Of course , if you 're worried about having enough space for your cabin luggage , enjoy pre-boarding :) During the flight Relax . Your child will most likely cry , and some people may be offended by that , but hey , tough luck for them . Feeling stressed out to have to calm the child , or yelling at him/her to shut up will only make matters worse . Note that you need to hold the child facing you during take-off and landing ( unless the child is in its own seat ) , so that can be a good time for ( breast - ) feeding the child , since the swallowing helps with ear pressure ( you can , but do n't have to be , lucky in that your kid does not suffer much from pressure change ) . Make sure there is a vomit bag in your seat pocket , and that you can grab it reasonably quickly . In my personal experience , the most critical period for vomiting is either during or right after landing . Remember there are lots of people who think babies are cute , and would love to hold the little bundle of joy , while you go to the bathroom , or relax for a moment . Let them help you .
No , there really are no cheap flights from Toronto to Resolute Bay . This is a known problem , as small communities are hundreds of km from each other and thousands of km from any road . Long distance flights in often hazardous conditions with small aeroplanes . It means the local Inuit ( unlike the extremely well-paid miners ) are often unable to visit each other or to visit southern Canada , and inhabitants of southern Canada are unable to visit Nunavut . Although the article mainly focusses on food prices , <URL> also notes : Nunavut 's remote communities do n't have highway access , he says , and airline tickets do n't come cheap . A one-way to ticket between some Nunavut communities can cost up to $ 2,000 , nevermind moving an entire family to a southern urban centre . From Resolute Bay , you need at least two of such hops . I am not at all surprised that you find tickets for $ 5,000 . I would not expect that you can get to Montréal for less than $ 3,000 , one way . For all practical purposes , visiting Nunavut as a budget traveller is impossible . Maybe you can hitch a ride of a freight supply ship , but there are no official ways through which this is possible , and you 'll be on your way for weeks , if not months . If you try to get out by kayak , ski , or snowmobile , please make sure you are prepared for Arctic weather and Arctic wildlife . Good luck .
According to Lonely Planet , a Taxi in Bulgaria costs around 0.70 lv per minute at night in Sofia " The rates per kilometre may range enormously from one taxi company to another , but the standard rate is 0.59 lv per minute in the daytime , 0.70 lv per minute at night . " In Romania it should not be more than 2lei/kilometre ( http://www.lonelyplanet.com/thorntree/thread.jspa?threadID=1883761 ) Assuming that it takes 8 minutes to drive 5 kilometer ( assuming an average speed of ~ 37.5 km/h ) , it should you cost not more than 5.60 lv ( 2.80 Euro ) , respectively 10 lei ( 2.40 Euro ) . So I would say 3 Euros should be way enough even if it is more expensive when it is necessary to cross a border in a taxi .
The rule of thumb here is whether the traveler is able to convince the Immigration officer that she is definitely planning to leave the country within the required term . A return ticket may be a factor , but it is neither a guarantee to entry nor it is required . As a citizen of Ukraine , once I 've traveled to the States holding a B-1 visa , and my return ticket had an open return date . So formally , I did not have ticket to a specific date . However , traveling for business purposes often has a good , documented , time-specific reason . In my case , it was my participation in an expo , and , obviously , an expo ends at a certain date . In my case , the officer looked at the expo invitation ( two weeks or so since the date of entry ) and stamped me 3 months which I have used shamelessly . Also , remember that the visa does not guarantee the entry to the country . Everything is up to the immigration officer . Let me put it even in a less neutral way : her entry may depend on a bad mood of a particular Immigration officer . So , do n't set yourself up into a potential trouble . So , your mother-in-law may be asked various questions so that the officer were sure she 's not a potential offender of immigration rules . What you may do is : Try purchasing an open-date return ticket . This alone will simplify things alot ( however , it might be more expensive than a fixed-date one ) . Prepare your answers in advance . Remember the factors that may help your argument : Is it her first travel to U.S. ? -- the more times she has been there , the fewer questions she will be asked ; Did she have prior issues in U.S. , even driving tickets ? -- counter-intuitively , this may count ; She 's probably going to a certain event , does n't she ? Does she have an invitation letter from the company who invites her ? -- this may help , provided that the letter states some required time-frame for her stay in the country ; It is also important to show how tightly she 's linked to her ( Ukrainian ! ) employer , family , and so on ;
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
Check out foXnoMad 's blog post about it <URL> and <URL> . It 's a two part topic and I would quote it here but there 's too much so check it out at his blog . The links probably wo n't die since it 's a quite popular blog .
end question
start question
Do Estonians prefer English to Finnish ?
Your best bet is English , since to a first approximation , everybody you 're likely to encounter in Estonia speaks English . Fluency in Finnish is fairly low and declining , especially among the post-1990 generation who grew up watching English media , not Finnish TV . While the languages are closely related , the pronunciation and vocabulary is sufficiently different that the spoken forms are not mutually intelligible without considerable study , and it would be a little rude to just assume people speak Finnish . Still worth a try if English clearly is n't getting through , but ask if they speak Finnish in Estonian first ( " Kas te raagite soome keelt ? " ) , and Russian would likely be a better bet . And yes , there is some regional variation : Russian-speaking Estonians , <URL> , are even less likely to understand Finnish . Source : personal experience as a Finn who has often visited Estonia , speaking only English and the odd word of Estonian . I ca n't recall the last time I had to trot out my Finnish there .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
I ultimately found one walking tour in the region , in Bonn to be specific . The website is <URL> . As the details are buried in a PDF I 'll quote them here . Bonn - Roman Settlement , Baroque Residence and Beethoven City Discover Bonn ´ s numerous sights on a walking tour through the historical city centre The historical centre of Bonn offers an abundance of sights which are easily reached on foot . The major points are the Beethoven monument , the romanesque Minster Cathedral , the Electors palace ( nowadays the University ) with the elegant Hofgarten and the baroque City Hall . The tour also takes you to the banks of the Rhine , near the Opera , from which river excursions on the boats of the Weiße Flotte ( white fleet ) are possible . The imposing view of Germany ´ s oldest nature park Siebengebirge ( seven hills ) can be seen from the banks of the Rhine . The tour ends at Ludwig van Beethoven ' s birthplace in the Bonngasse . Here you have the opportunity to visit Beethoven ´ s birthplace with the Digital Beethoven House on your own . The entrance fee must be paid separately at the Beethoven House . Date and Time : Saturdays from 27 April to 26 October at 11 am Meeting place : Bonn-Information , Windeckstraße 1 / am Münsterplatz ( nearby Minster Cathedral Square ) Duration : around 1 1/2 hours Price : Adults 9 $ , with reduction 5 $ ( children aged 12-17 , students , disabled ) I did n't find out until after I payed , but tour is actually conducted in German and also in English if there are English speaking people joining the tour . As I was the only English speaker in the tour it felt a bit awkward , but the tour was still very interesting and I would recommend it .
I lived in London for four years . Perhaps I just did n't appreciate it , but I ca n't say I really was that aware of the class system on a day-to-day basis . Sure , you were aware that in Peckham in South London there tended to be a lower socio-economic ' category ' of people than say , Kensington . And yes in Mayfair there were the private members ' clubs and the like . And certainly the race day events tended to attract certain people . However , I , and others like myself who were there for a few years ( from NZ , Aus , South Africa , Canada and more ) did n't see it as a limiting factor . If we wanted to go to the races , we would , and just dress up for the occasion . Bond Street is just a place to shop , the prices are higher , is all . Nothing stopping you strolling along and having a look . It 's funny , every so often a comment would crop up about it . Someone at work would make a comment about not taking the bus because they were n't poor enough to need it ( or the tube ) . Yet , the current Mayor of London bikes to work , and the previous Mayor used to take the tube ( still does , last I checked ) . And most of us Kiwis or Aussies etc , whether from rich or poor backgrounds - we 'll take buses , tubes without hesitation - they 're quicker , convenient , and driving in London is awful . ' Class ' certainly did n't stop me getting into the Buckingham Palace garden tea party :) In general , the UK has become ( well , London , but other cities more and more as well ) so cosmopolitan and multicultural that in some facets of society , the class system has all but melted away . That 's not to say that some people do n't still hold it true and fast and insist on it and campaign against it when a fast food restaurant wants to open in Highbury ( it 'll lower their class somehow ? ) , but on the whole , most people you meet are welcoming no matter your background . As some people have said , in London - nobody 's a foreigner , because everyone 's a foreigner !
The airport itself is in the middle of nowhere , I do n't think there is any walkable attraction around but the public transport connections are very good . If you did not plan to go there during the next days and did not have to worry about a small kid , taking the train to the center of Amsterdam would be the obvious choice . I do n't know Hoofddorp itself but note that the area was a lake until the 19th century . The city was created from scratch after the land was reclaimed so you should not expect a typical historical Dutch town ( but that might be interesting in itself ) . The pumping stations and the countryside in the vicinity ( <URL> and the area around Buitenkaag and the <URL> ) are definitely worth a visit if you are interested in the history of the landscape but they are not so easily reachable and you would need more time than an evening to go there . As far as restaurants are concerned , iens.nl is probably the most popular website in the Netherlands . <URL>
From <URL> : A. Effective December 30 , 2008 , Maltese citizens are eligible to travel to the U.S. without a visa under the Visa Waiver Program if the following conditions are met : The visit is less than 90 days The visit is for tourism or business The traveler holds a valid biometric passport The traveler registers for and receives an approved travel authorization , or ESTA ( Electronic System for Travel Authorization ) , by entering their travel details at <URL> at least 72 hours prior to commencing travel The traveler has a valid return ticket The traveler has no prior legal convictions .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
Assuming you have a debit card on the Cirrus network , you should be able to get Canadian cash very easily . You should know we have two kinds of ATMs - those associated with a bank and the so-called " White label " ones that are typically in convenience stores and hotel lobbies and charge a much higher fee . The machine will tell you the fee as part of the transaction ( and you can cancel without incurring it if you do n't like it ) , but if you seek out a bank-associated one ( on the outside wall of a bank , typically , though there may be bank-associated ATMs at the airport ) you will save on fees . It would help to know a little French - please , thankyou , and numbers for speaking , more than that for reading . You will find that written signs are often in French only ( eg instructions in a parking garage ) which you can probably muddle through with a phrasebook as long as you have the time . Most people speak English , but the signs do n't give you that impression . Service people will typically greet you either with bonjour or hello-bonjour , which can be hard to recognize as a greeting at first . If you do n't have enough French to follow a TV show in it , and you do n't care about Canadian sports and politics , you are not likely to enjoy watching TV in the hotel ( the channels are half-and-half English and French and the hotels seem to carry less US channels than the rest of the country ) , so perhaps bring a book or something else for evening entertainment . Montreal is a great city for walking and a horrible city for driving . Bring a guidebook and go for walks at lunchtime , check out the old city , and try not to sneer at us for considering that to be old . I recommend against having an opinion on The Two Solitudes , Distinct Society , and the like . Eg do n't say " were n't you guys going to separate or something ? " with people you 've only just met . And bring your appetite ! The food in Montreal is amazing . You should eat smoked meat and bagels , and poutine , because they 're iconic , but you will also find wonderful fine dining , locavore , slow food , and more .
The first foreign language in all of Europe is English . In all tourist destinations you will find people speaking it , often enough of them that you might think everybody in the country can communicate in English . In a few months you will not have time to learn other languages , but try to learn the local version , for each of the languages , of ' good morning/day ' ' thank you ' and ' goodbye ' and use them with a smile . The mistake most people make is trying to do too much in too short a time . When I see your list of 5 countries I hope you have 5 weeks at least . Typically traveling between countries costs a day when traveling by train , most of a day when flying and leaving you too tired to do sight seeing in what will be left of the day . A day in Greece will cost you 3 days of your vacation , one to travel each way and one to sight see . Get out a good travel guide , libraries stock them and you will often find them in second hand book stores , and work out what you really want to see and whether it is worth it to miss two full days sight seeing for the time you have there . Each of the countries you mention uses the euro . Often the cheapest way to get euros is to use the ATM wherever you are . How much you pay , and whether you need to pay at all , depends on the contract you have with your bank . Contact your bank and find out whether your bank card is ready for use abroad and tell them that you will be using it in Europe , ( and tell them you arrive the day before you actually do , as some forget the time difference and have you ' arrive ' half a day after you actually do , ) and get them to tell you how much each use will cost . Some banks allow you to do all this online , but if in doubt , just talk with a real person of your bank . Your own bank should be able to get you euros to start you off , $ 200 would be a good amount , otherwise the exchange office at the airport even though it might be a bit more expensive , or the ATM in the arrival airport . Do carry some of your own money , like $ 200 , in case your card fails or you have other problems , cash exchanges are more expensive than getting money out of the ATM but having real money will always work better than money in a bank you can not reach . And if you do have a credit card , bring it . The best will be if it has pin and chip , but any CC will be useful in some cases .
No , as a Swiss citizen you do not need a visa for visits up to 90 days . References : <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
It being the Lake District in June , you can expect rain , gorgeous sunshine , fog , wind , calm , hot and cold , so for the first part of your question : take layers of clothing , with an outer waterproof / windproof layer take a hat take sun screen take midge repellent That 's the UK for you - very variable :-) For the second part - I would suggest booking B&amp;B 's , especially if the 5 day forecast is good , as the route can get very busy very fast . There is a lot of accommodation along the route , but you do n't want to be stuck .
Welcome to the wonderful world of airline pricing ! Exactly how trips are priced will depend on a number of factors including the airline and the exact time you 're flying , but as a generic answer ... Flights are normally prices on a per-leg basis , and then the price for each leg is combined to make up the total trip price . When you fly a round-trip , the prices for each leg will often be cheaper than if you just buy a one-way ticket . Open-jaw trips are normally priced at the same price ( per leg ) as round-trip trips , so normally you 'd expect the overall prices to be similar for a round-trip as they are for a open-jaw . So , when you buy NYC - > ABC and DEF - > NYC , it 's fairly simple - it 'll be the round-trip/open-jaw price for each of those legs combined . However if you buy NYC - > ABC , ABC - > DEF , DEF - > NYC there 's a number of ways it could be priced . The obvious way is that the prices for each of those three legs could be calculated and added together . This is normally referred to as a " circle fare " , and obviously it is always going to be more than paying for the open-jaw as it 's basically the open-jaw plus an extra flight . However , it could also be priced as NYC-ABC , ABC-NYC with a stopover at DEF . Or as NYC-DEF with a stopover at ABC , and DEF-NYC . Picking the first of these an as example ( NYC-ABC , ABC-NYC with a stopover in DEF ) , you 're now no longer purchasing a ticket to DEF , but a return trip NYC-ABC . If flights to ABC are cheaper than DEF - which they could be for any reason including more competition on that flight , a sale on at the moment , etc , then you 're obviously going to pay less . Some airlines will charge you a little more for a stopover along the way whilst some will allow a single stopover for free - but even if you have to pay for it it 's generally going to be cheap . Most good travel booking websites will automatically look at the options available and work out the cheapest option for you . ie , they will compare the prices for the circle-fare option , the NYC-ABC return with a stopover , and the NYC-DEF return with a stopover options and then allow you to book the cheapest of the 3 . As an similar example , I recently had to book a ticket SFO-LHR which was going to cost around $ 1200 . However I decided that I wanted to spend a few days in Istanbul on the way back , so I decided to try and book SFO-LHR-IST-SFO ( with multiple days in both LHR and IST ) . You would expect that this would cost more , as clearly it 's a much longer flight , however it actually cost only $ 1000 - cheaper that the direct option . The reason was that it actually priced out as being SFO-IST , IST-SFO . ie , technically I bought a round-trip ticket to Istanbul , and just happened to have a stopover in London on the way . Airfares to Istanbul at the time were cheaper than airfares to London , so even after paying ~ $ 100 extra to have a " stopover " in London , it still came out $ 200 cheaper !
Barcelona is a great place to visit ; it has been the object of lots of changes some twenty years ago when it hosted the Olympic Games and it has resulted in a general improvement of the area . As you probably know , Barcelona is the town where the Catalan architect Antoni Gaudí worked and it can show some of the best examples of his visionary form of art . You ca n't miss visiting <URL> , the expiatory temple which was recently opened for rites but which is not yet completed , or <URL> , now a public park on a hill which he meant to become an example of integration between normal city life and art and nature . Closer to the town centre you have <URL> , better known as La Pedrera , another incredibly interesting building which demonstrates Gaudí 's genius . All these places can be visited ( the only free one is Parque Güell ) , whereas Casa Batlló must be seen from the outside unless you have arranged a special visit or event . One more thing I would recommend to get the feeling of the place is a visit to the <URL> , an incredible covered food market where you can buy almost anything and where you can easily get a savoury meal for little money . It is just on <URL> , a long tree-lined avenue which goes down from Plaza Catalunya to the port and which is a must-see for all tourists . One museum which in my opinion you can do without is the Picasso Museum , particularly if you have already seen some of his paintings in other places .
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
It very much depends where you want to be for the drop . <URL> hosts a party which is technically in Times Square , just high up , and ages 18 + may attend , or 16 + with an adult . The <URL> lets a family of any ages , although drinks will differ depending on age . Also you 'd need to be with your family , presumably . <URL> also points out that the general access will see elderly and children as well as the usual revellers , but to remember that it 's bitterly cold at that time of year . You also need to queue almost the entire day to get in . Given the thousands of people , the surging crowd , drunkenness , night , the need to queue all day and the need to get back home afterwards , it 'd be highly unadvisable for a child/teenager to do it on their own , however , with a family , it 's certainly possible , and there are family friendly areas .
Yes , you do need one . The US does n't share the concept of " in international transit " that a lot of other countries have . When you step off a plane on US soil [ * ] , you must clear US customs and immigration . Only then can you proceed to board your next flight . The DHS have an entry about this in their <URL> : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require travel authorization if they are only transiting the United States in route to another country ? Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require either a travel authorization or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the travel authorization application in ESTA , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination location in the address lines in the Address While In The United States field on the application . . [ * ] In a few places ( such as Canada an Ireland ) , they have juxtaposed border controls and you end up clearing US customs and immigration before boarding the plane . Either way , you still need to clear immigration on an international connection .
Yes , you can go to Istanbul with your ID card . Generally speaking , Kris is right , you do need a valid passport , even for countries for which you do n't need a visa . But in this case , you can in fact enter Turkey with your national ID ( see <URL> and <URL> mentioned by Geeo ) . This possibility is only offered to citizens from a few countries ( not the whole EU ) but it 's the case for Italian citizens . Citizens from an even smaller list of countries can also enter with an expired passport but that 's not the case for Italy .
When Kosovo grants Turkish citizens visa-free entry for short stays , it is a sign that they do n't plan to subject most entering Turks to greater scrutiny than what can reasonably be done on the fly at the border checkpoint . This has to mean that they do n't routinely demand extensive paperwork such as letters of invitation -- if they did , there would be a visa requirement so they had a chance to get a good look at it in peace and quiet . So unless you arouse more suspicion in the border guard than most other Turks do , what you will need is just your passport , and convincing answers to standard questions : What is the purpose of your trip ? Where will you stay ? When and how will you leave Kosovo again ? Be prepared to document your accommodation bookings , tickets for the journey back home , and that you have enough money for your expenses during the trip . ( if you think you do look suspicious , arm yourself with as much documentation as you can lay your hand on , and hope for the best ) .
Actually there 's a third , rarer option . But it 's the option I 'm on currently . If your trip is going to be longer than 30 days , you ca n't use a tourist visa - as that 's the maximum length , and you ca n't extend it . You can , however , apply for a business visa and are perfectly entitled to say it 's for tourism . I got a letter of support from my company ( despite it saying I 'm just going as a tourist ) and worked with visatorussia.com to make sure I had all the details , and voila , a 3 month double-entry Russian Business Visa ! It did cause the border guy a bit of confusion , but a quick phone call and he was quite happy with it . Again , you need a letter of invite ( visatorussia can help with that ) , and you specify a rough itinerary ( I just said the 5 major cities I hope to visit ) but these do not go on your visa , nor are you required to stick to it . However , as mentioned - if you 're in any place for more than a few days you are required to register with your hotel or place of abode . Again , visatorussia will help explain all of that . Good luck !
Some Stats I ran some stats for you ( from our data on Hostelz.com , a travel website that I represent ) and currently 97 % of hostels provide free bedsheets , and the remaining 3 % charge a fee . Towels are a different matter . Currently 50.5 % of hostels include free towels , 46.9 % charge a fee , and 2.6 % do n't offer towels at all . The History Over the long term , the trend is actually moving in the opposite direction of what you may think it is . In the past hostels traditionally did n't provide bedsheets or towels at all . When staying in hostels , you were expected to bring your own " sleepsheet " ( usually made from two bedsheets sewn together ) . As recently as the early 2000s , guidebooks recommended always having your sleepsheet when staying in hostels because most hostels charged extra if you did n't bring your own sheets , and some did n't offer sheets at all . Over the past couple decades , hostels have been more and more offering amenities similar to what you would expect from hotels ( and they 've been raising their rates as well ) . Some may still charge for sheets because they traditionally have always done that , but some hostels may be just doing it as a way to profit from added fees ( the Ryanair business model ) . How to Find Out To answer your question about how to find out ahead of time which hostels charge for sheets or towels , most of the hostels ' own websites do n't include that info from what I 've seen . If you 're looking on Hostelz.com , we list that information in the column on the left side of each listing , usually including the specific price they charge if the hostel provided that information . Other websites may list information as well ( Hostelworld for example will usually say " sheets included " if they 're free , so if you do n't see that , there may be a fee ) . Consider Bringing Your Own Personally I still always bring a sleepsheet ( or " travelsheet " ) with me anyway . I just like sleeping in my own familiar sheets . You could bring a simple bedsheet with you , or if you do n't mind spending some money , you can get a really nice <URL> . Silk is ideal because it 's super lightweight , compacts to a very small size , durable , breathable , and super comfortable .
end question
start question
Do I need to apply for a visa to enter South Korea as a tourist on an Australian passport ?
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
So as you have realised , a visa is required for tourist purposes for citizens of Saudi Arabia visiting South Africa . It depends a little on how thorough you want to be - but basically , the more prepared you are , the better chance you have . For example , the most <URL> include : Passport valid for 6 months beyond date of departure . 2 passport-size photos with signature on reverse side . 1 completed application form ( failure to complete the application fully and in detail may result in visa being delayed or refused ) . Proof of sufficient funds to cover visit . Onward/return ticket and , if in transit , proof of sufficient documentation for admission to the country of destination . Extra ones that <URL> include : No criminal record ( if you have proof of this , it could be useful ) Be of sound body and mind ( hard to prove this though ! ) A plan describing your intent while in South Africa - where you 're staying , what you want to do Evidence of hotels booked , car rentals and the like Contacts in case of emergency in South Africa ( if you have any ) A vaccination certificate Passport valid for no less than 30 days after the expiry of the intended visit . Proof of travel insurance / medical cover Now the problem you have is most sites seem to say it can take 3-10 days to process . Of course as you travel a lot , you 're probably aware that money can usually make these delays go away . Talk nicely to the embassy staff , ask if there 's anything extra they might need , make sure all your documents are nicely organised , ask them about South Africa while talking - see if they 're from there and if they have favourite places ( makes a connection , meaning more chance of them helping you out ) .
In general , you need a visa as an Indonesian passport holder . The only exemption , which applies to you , is where you have a re-entry visa and a travel plan including travel tickets to a country like the USA or Canada . If you have a re-entry visa to the US , and you do not plan to stay in Korea longer than 30 days , you can enter <URL> , bound for the USA as a holder of a re-entry visa to the USA .
It depends on the airline . Some airlines require passports and if the only passport you have is South African , then you also need a visa to go with it . However , not all transportation operators between Ireland and the UK require passports for British citizens -- several other forms of ID/documentation can also suffice . There 's a ( non-authoritative , possibly inaccurate ) list <URL> . There should n't be any immigration control on arrival in London , due to the Common Travel Area .
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
You should apply to the <URL> or the <URL> in Rotterdam . Here is the <URL> . You may get a visa ( tourist card ) also through your travel agency , even if you do not plan your trip via the agency .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
Yes you need a visa to enter Turkey , according to <URL> United States of America : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . They can obtain three month-multiple entry visas from Turkish diplomatic representations abroad and also via the website <URL> . Please note , no more visa stickers on border crossings , you have to obtain the e-visa in advance : As of April 17 , 2013 , electronic visa ( e-Visa ) replaces " sticker visa " which was issued at the border crossings . Applicants just need to log on to www.evisa.gov.tr , provide the requested information , ( after the application is approved ) make online payment and download their e-Visa . The e-visa is easy to obtain and takes 24 hours to be issued , as mentioned in the <URL> page : Your e-Visa will be e-mailed to you within 24 hours after completion of your application . Note : The e-Visa 's introduced in 2013 are now becoming mandatory . Sticker visas will not be available at border crossings beginning April 10th , 2014 . If you needed a visa before , you must now obtain it in advance . This includes US citizens . There are even more restrictions on arrival for many other countries .
Most people from countries that used to get visa on arrival in Turkey now have to apply for an e-visa and are advised to do so before traveling . <URL> and who can apply . And <URL> need to have . Australia : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . Ordinary passport holders can obtain three month-multiple entry e-Visas via the website www.evisa.gov.tr . If you have no chance to apply before arrival , or do not want to do it , you can risk waiting till you arrive , ( or your friend of course , ) <URL> and check your country is in the list . Australia is on the list .
I 'm answering my own question . 6 months ago , I accepted Prometheus 's answer , I really thanked him for searching information for me . But I removed the acceptance , because I afraid that people may get wrong information . The reason I want to apply a B2 visa for my wife , because J-2 is not reasonable for us . First , my internship was only 3 months , and my wife only intended to visit me for 1 month . However , if we applied for the J-2 visa , we would have to pay the insurance for 3 months for my wife . i.e. as long as my stay . And believe me , the insurance is extremely expensive . After searching for a while , I realized that spouse or under-21 children who intend to stay less than 6 months ( some pages say only 3 months ) in the US have the option to apply for a B visa . So I applied for a J-1 and my wife applied for a B2 . We arranged to have the appointment at the same time , but the US Embassy in London processed our applications separately . The funny thing was that : my J-1 visa was valid only for 5 months , but my wife 's visa is valid for 1 year . Moreover , she applied for a B2 visa , and they granted her a B1/B2 visa . However , note that a J-2 application is easier to be accepted than a B2 , since the dependent also has the sponsor from the host company etc. . We took a risk of applying B2 because my wife had travelled to the US alone several times before .
After some inspection and asking few crew members . It turns out that if you enter any country within the Schengen area as a crew member then you can move within the Schengen area . Make sure you have your passport and a copy of the crew members General Declaration . UPDATE : I went to Amsterdam and came back , I asked the police at the station in Paris and he said it 's ok . Anyway no one stopped me or asked me . All went smooth just like a domestic trip .
Visa applications for Australia can be done completely online ! ( For Australia ) So firstly , to confirm , yes <URL> . Then , apply for it online . There are <URL> . Travelers are not required to visit the Australian embassy nor send in their passports . Once online visa applications are approved , applicants will receive their visa by email , which is recognized by all airlines traveling inbound to Australia and provided that all your travel documents are in order , you should have no trouble boarding your flight to Australia .
I 'd certainly submit that document . It might not be a government/airline , but it 's some evidence with your name on it indicating where and when you were . The suggested documents are useful because they 're common , accurate and hard to forge . They 're also often available . However , many people ( most ? ) do n't keep boarding passes , and in that case emails and bookings from hostels/hotels might suffice as well . It 's to provide reasonable indication - it 's not a court case ( yet ) and as such , providing what evidence you have , and a supplementary note if you feel it would help is always a good idea . In my experience , more information is better than gaps - gaps or missing info raises questions . If you have a document that answers those questions , that 's better for all involved .
Yes , both foreigners and Russian citizens usually need a special permission to enter regions in Russia designated as border zones and Chukotka is one of them . On <URL> , you can along the Finnish border find some of the signs indicating the start of the regulated border zone . This might sound as an odd , paranoid remnant from the communist era , but you will actually find a similar , though not so broad ( up to 3km ) , <URL> , for which you need a special permit to enter as well . The Chukotka government offers a web page in English on the subject <URL> , but the text is somewhat confusing and addresses the ' inviting party ' . The thing is , that to obtain a border zone entry permit , you need a formal ' invitation ' from a subject within the border zone and the government 's information page seem to indicate that the inviting party must apply for the permit on your behalf . Such an ' invitation ' is by the way even required for a regular Russian tourist visa and for tourists in most cases issued by a Russian tourist agency . Even if I ca n't find any tangible information , I would be pretty sure that you need assistance from a Chukotkan tourist agency for them to apply for an entry permit on your behalf . On the web site visitchukotka.com , you can both find a list of <URL> and some details on the <URL> they offer .
There is no formal distinction between visas for tourism or business purposes in the Schengen countries . There 's just a single kind of visa : uniform type C short-stay visas , with a single application process . In the visa application , you have to explain why you 're going , but you wo n't be held responsible for classifying the application into rigid " tourism " and " business " categories . Sure enough there are checkboxes for " purpose of travel " in the standard application form , but that 's just for convenience and ease of processing , so that straightforward tourists or business travelers wo n't have to word an explanation of their own -- not because the answer there selects between different sets of rules . You can always enclose a more detailed free-form explanation to clarify your answer .
Yes , you can - the pending H1-B application does not impact your ability to use the VWP program at all . As with anyone using VWP you will need to obtain an ESTA in advance of your trip . The only real complication is that you can not change from VWP to H1-B status whilst in the US . ie , if/when your H1-B is approved , you will need to leave the US to obtain your visa and then re-enter the US using that visa to get your H1-B status .
Normally , you do n't need to mail your passport right away . They first process your online application , and then request your passport only when/if you 're approved-in-principle . You would then send it to <URL> ( or there may be visa processing centres throughout Brasil , I 'm not sure ) . Disclaimer : I 've only dealt with Russia , the process for Brasil may be different , you should read the rules online . As for how long it takes : I only have experience with the Moscow office , but I had a great experience with it . I 've seen two applications where the visa was approved in 4 working days ( that 's 4 days until they sent the passport request , plus the mailing time of the passport back and forth of course ) , even though the official waiting time is something like 45 days . But of course , apply as early as possible .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
Currently the only variant to visit the cosmos is to go to the <URL> The only way to visit the ISS is to go there aboard a Russian <URL> . Note : you must go through some training before this . The price is up to ( and more to go to open space ) . In the near future the Russian company RosCosmos is going to provide tours around the Moon , but it is still a project , not a real tour perspective . Other tours are all about near-Earth flights . Update <URL> <URL> the first commercial flight to the Moon in 2017 ( 50 years from Appolo 1 flight ) , the price is $ 300.000.000 for two places . Flight will be done via russian Soyuz . Good luck !
end question
start question
How many hours will it take to drive from Manhattan to Toronto on this " Black Friday " weekend ?
It 's a holiday shopping weekend , so you should expect traffic in any city concentrated around shopping areas such as malls , as well as heavier traffic on arterial roads . And Manhattan of course will be Manhattan , but you wo n't be there long . If you <URL> it will advise you to take the Holland Tunnel out of the city , which ought to be light traffic at that time of the week , and direct you onto I-80 west . This gets you out of the urban areas very quickly . Later you will cross into Canada at the Lewiston-Queenston Bridge , downstream of Niagara Falls , which will not have quite as much tourist traffic as the Rainbow Bridge crossing . Expect your wait to not be all that long there ; <URL> for the Sunday night after Thanksgiving are around 45 minutes at peak hour ( 6 pm to 7 pm ) , but you should arrive a couple of hours ahead of this . And remember to bring cash for the toll . The remainder of the trip is rural freeway and you should not see any significant traffic , barring accidents , which is quite possible if there is more snowfall ( though most of the roads are clear right now ) . It seems some snowfall is predicted for the Syracuse area so you might want to take Google 's alternate suggested route to bypass most of it . That route uses the Peace Bridge though . You may want to check <URL> when you get to Buffalo to decide where you want to cross . So , call it about eight hours , plus border wait , plus however long you stop for food , gas and other necessities . Assuming an hour for food and gas , 45 minutes at the border , and 15 minutes to get out of Manhattan , a ten hour trip .
There are cases of customs and immigration demanding the passwords to phones or laptops , and then taking them out of sight of the passenger to use them and search them . Apparently by law you must provide these passwords when asked , and you may not follow the officers around to see what they do with your devices ( such as putting USB sticks into them to copy data . ) ( For the specific question of " can they really do that ? " see <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> The best prevention for this problem is almost certainly not to have the sensitive data on the laptop at all . It can be in some sort of cloud storage and you can copy it onto your laptop after you clear the border . The second best prevention is to have the data with you but hidden . People have suggested a dual-boot setup , where the machine is booted into one OS that does not have access to the sensitive data at all , and only if they reboot the machine will they know that another OS even exists . Hidden encrypted partitions have also been suggested . While this may work , if it is noticed it will suddenly make everyone very suspicious and get you a lot more attention , so it may not be worth the risk . You can also use USB devices that do n't appear to be USB devices at first glance - I own a beer bottle opener USB and I know someone with a watch USB - to carry the data . While I have seen laptops and phones searched on episodes of Border Security ( generally snooping through emails to see if someone is coming into the country to work or to stay forever ) I have never seen USB sticks searched , and I suspect USB sticks that do n't appear to be data storage devices would be ignored . ( I also once carried a bunch of Word documents on an SD chip in a camera , not for cloak and dagger reasons but just to have one less thing to lose . ) Related : <URL> The third best prevention is to convince yourself that an officer searching your laptop is searching for : contraband data itself , most notably child pornography proof that your story of where you have been or where you are going ( and why ) is true or not proof of your immediate future plans or immediate past activity names and contact information of people who can confirm your story or who can be investigated as part of your criminal behaviour They are not particularly searching for hot stock tips or the news that your company is considering acquiring another , nor the proprietary results of the latest tests on something you 're developing . That information may have tremendous value to someone , but a rogue or corrupt customs official is probably more interested in celebrity photographs than corporate intelligence . But if you ca n't shake your fears , then keep the data off the laptop and if possible entirely off your person as you cross the border .
There is a EUR 430 allowance but it 's <URL> . So if you want to sell them , you 're not OK , no matter their value . Incidentally , even a single brand new Apple Mac Book for your own use would not be OK either because it would be over the limit ( bringing back your own used laptop is a different question ) . It was a long time ago ( before the EU rules detailed in the link above ) but someone from my family once got in trouble for a handful of baby napkins or something like that . The issue is not merely the value but the fact that having several identical items , especially with receipts or intact packaging is taken as a sign that the goods are new and you might want to sell them instead of carrying them for your personal use . Under this logic , the answer to the title question would therefore appear to be " one " even if there is no explicit limit . A suitcase full of identical laptops is certainly likely to attract attention .
I have not done this journey in a superjeep , only in normal transportation in summer months . But I can tell you that it is usually around a 2.5 hour journey . Its a fairly pleasant drive in my experience . During winter , Iceland only has around 4 hours of daylight per day . At worst , on the Winter Solstice ( 22nd December in 2015 ) <URL>
There is no problem driving in Morocco if you can not understand Arabic . I think the impression you get from your Google query is not quite correct . The road signs are bilingual Arabic/French , sometimes even with pictograms : <URL> In cities the signage can sometimes be a bit meager . Combined with the Moroccan style of drive , this makes crossing a city a bit more stressful . For overland travel , the signage is fine . Nevertheless it is a good idea to have a road map .
The general answer is yes . It is safe to travel there . Nevertheless , Turkey being a very big country one can not lump everything together . The more detailed answer to this questions largely depends on where you go . The area around the Syrian border should be avoided . But that 's nothing really new . Some areas in the East and the South-East should be avoided too . This is n't new either . The Tunceli province has been a place of tension for years . But anyway that 's not a place a tourist would go to . Diyarbakır has also been the theater of recent tensions . But it has calmed down again . More recently , there have been demonstrations in the bigger cities , especially in Istanbul and Ankara . They have on some occasions been violent . There has been some vandalism from the side of the demonstrators and the police has used brute force ( water cannons and tear gas ) to dismantle the demonstrations . These demonstrations are pretty localized though . In Istanbul they are confined to the Taksim square . And there is strictly nothing in the other parts of the city . If you happen to be in this area , just pay attention to what is going on . But do n't be paranoid . A water cannon parked in one corner of the square and some policeman around it can be considered as " normal " these days . However , when they start closing the access to the square , it is time to go . But you do n't have to go very far . Crossing the Tarlabaşı boulevard is enough . On that side you are quiet and you will find a taxi or dolmuş to get away if necessary . So just avoid to get too close to protests and you are fine . There is no use in playing the war correspondent and getting too close to take pictures or videos . I have been to Istanbul and Bursa , some weeks ago and what I am telling here reflects my experience . I have seen the beginning of a demonstration in İstiklal Caddesi . At that moment I decided to go away and go back to the Hotel , which was near the Taksim square . The trip by taxi to the airport was much more dangerous ! It is also worth noting that there is a high <URL> in Turkey . This extends beyond the period you are interested in . In case you are interested , you can follow <URL> , an English speaking source for news about Turkey .
I 've done the Pamir Highway in the summer of 2014 . It 's hard to answer the question how long it takes because it 's not a road for getting from A to B but it 's an experience in itself and you may want to spend as long as you can up there . There are several points to think about before heading out : Which route ? do you want to take , there are several options from Khorog , you can go south along the Afghan border to the Wakhan valley and then turn north to join the M41 . You can go north via the Bartang River or along the Shokh Dara valley . The most direct route is to leave Khorog on the M41 and stay on it all the way to Osh in Kyrgyzstan . I think all of them are worth taking , you could do the Southern loop and come back to Khorog and then do the M41 . How to travel ? , the easiest way is to hire a jeep with a driver . This will be expensive , if you can find other people to form a group , it may be affordable , I was originally planning to do this , but never found more than one other person to join me . Using shared taxis ( usually SUVs , but also old Opels ) only gets you so far . You can get from Khorog to Ishkashim , or Murgab to Sary Tash , but you have to be very lucky to find them in the remote areas of the Pamirs , there are just not enough people travelling there . You can try to hitch , usually all cars and mini-buses still charge you something . On the M41 between Khorog and Murgab there are a few trucks every hour going to China . I hitched with several of them and they never wanted money . But in the Wakhan valley and between Murgab and Kyrgyzstan there are no trucks and very few cars . I remember one morning waiting at the side of the road not seeing a car for four hours either way . And finally you can cycle or walk . I started walking early in the morning and by 11 am when it got really hot I started hitching until I reached the next place with a homestay . How often to stop ? Besides Khorog only Murgab has one hotel . There are basic guest houses in Eshkashim and Jelandy , but otherwise it 's all homestays and there are not so many villages on the way . The tourist office in Khorog has a list of homestays , but I never used it . Whenever I got to a village it was easy to find a family that would take me in . There are many places to stop and do side trips on the way . Lots of hiking opportunities . I spent 17 days in the Pamir region , not long enough . If you have a hired jeep you can make it in two or three days from Khorog to Osh , but then you would n't stop much .
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
The mordida ( nibble ) is unfortunately deeply ingrained in Mexico , although mostly a feature of local police and not the federal police or the military , and there are various anti-corruption initiatives at work in the larger cities . Generally , the interaction involves being pulled over for a traffic offense like speeding or not wearing a seat belt . The driver is warned of some exaggerated penalty for some exaggerated offense , then suggested to get the fine reduced for a consideration of a few hundred pesos . There are very few stories , however , of more serious harassment . A dirty cop is out for cash , not blood , so a play for time may encourage him to move on to another target . There are plain vanilla ticket traps all over , as there are in Canada and the U.S. , and legitimate checkpoints set up by the military and federal police , so it 's good to be aware of local laws ( e.g. tinted windows are illegal in Tijuana unless you have proof of manufacturer installation ) and to follow the standard tips for dealing with law enforcement in any country : Remain calm and polite ; never show outward anger and never become argumentative . Never offer a bribe . It will genuinely insult honest police , and the dishonest ones know how to work to get one ; there 's no need to make things easy on them . On federal highways and in the larger cities ( Tijuana , Ensenada , etc. ) you will have written traffic tickets ; elsewhere , however , the officer will take your license and escort you to the police station . Any solicitation for a bribe will take place before you get to the police station , of course , so if you can play for time , the dirty cop will get impatient and let you go . Knowing Spanish helps mainly in that the dirty cop would fear that you know of recourse to the Sindicata or other authority . If you do go to the station , you will meet the juez calificador ( a kind of municipal judge ) who will review the charge . If you feel the charge is unfair , you can appeal to the judge . There is a discount on the ticket if you pay early . If you have been solicited for a bribe , by all means report it to the authorities . The Sindicata ( think : Internal Affairs ) , the local mayor , the governor , and the consul would be a good start . Baja Insider magazine has an interesting 2010 article with some tips on avoiding or minimizing your mordida exposure : <URL> Above all , remember that the greatest risks of driving in Baja California come not from drug cartels , banditos , or corrupt police , but from the road itself . The roads are often narrow , isolated , in disrepair or under construction , or being crossed by cattle or horses , and likely some combination of the above . It is best to stick to the toll roads ( which are better maintained and controlled ) , to drive during daylight hours only , to keep your fuel topped off , and to drive slowly .
<URL> : Budapest Franz Liszt International Airport ... is the country 's largest airport , located about 16 km ( 10 mi ) southeast of the city centre . Budapest Airport is notoriously hard to get in and out of . While a train connection between the city and the terminal has been built , it only served Terminal 1 , which is now defunct , and the currently used Terminal 2 is an at least 10 mins drive away , on the very other side of the airport . Public transportation between the city and airport requires changing from bus to rail or metro and takes between 40 mins to an hour . There is a single and long two-lane road connecting the city and Ferihegy , and it unsurprisingly gets congested at peak times , especially on the way to the airport , so bear this in mind and depart for the airport early ( at least an hour before the boarding time to make sure you clear security ) . Of course , you mention you 're travelling at night , so traffic would be less . And you 're wondering specifically about going from Kőbánya-Kispest . <URL> , would seem to indicate 16-24 minutes travel time from Kőbánya-Kispest to the airport . I played with it a bit and traffic seems to start to increase after 6am , but you should be at the airport well before that , especially if it 's an international flight .
Most countries prohibit " defacing " passports , and most countries will refuse entry if the passport is " damaged " . Obviously there 's a wide grey area between an accidental scribble and an unacceptably defaced/damaged passport , and it 's largely up to the immigration officer to decide where to draw the line ( ba-dum tssh ) . The usual red lines ( har ! ) are : making any changes to the photo page , altering visa stamps , and removing anything ( pages , parts of pages , stickers , etc ) . The artist in your article is obviously skirting as close to the line as possible , and arguably the theatrical moustache he 's added to his own photo has crossed over it , but he 's taking care to ensure all visa stamps remain legible . At the end of the day , though , it 's a question of risk and reward . The only reward is personal satisfaction ; the risk , though , is the considerable cost and hassle of being denied entry . Which is why most of us keep our passports undecorated .
I was on a train with a Canadian who experienced this . We left Irkutsk , Russia heading towards Ulan Bator , Mongolia on the ... let 's say Tuesday , the last day of his visa . Seemed ok , but we did n't actually cross the border until early on the Wednesday . The result - he was a few hours over his visa . The security and passport people came on the train , took our passports , and announced - " there is problem " . He was whisked off the train , and we debated dividing up his stuff - there 'd been no indication what was going to happen . A couple of hours later ( we were at the border for ages ) he returned . He 'd been fined for overstaying , and apparently there 's a base fine , and an additional fine per day over . Plus a mark in his passport for overstaying , if I recall correctly . You wo n't get stuck in Russia . But you will get in trouble . Get an earlier bus , or if you can , adjust your visa . Either way , do n't overstay .
Orlando to New York is 1740km so expect driving time to be more than 24 hrs whereas flying is 2hrs 30 min and should cost you around USD160 / - one way . Dont forget to include cost of stay if driving .
The Red MAX takes 44 minutes from Pioneer Square to the airport . Source : <URL> . So that 's 1.5 hrs . Security wait times you can predict from <URL> . Let 's put that to 20 minutes . Actually you need to get off the plane and get out . I 'd put that to another 20-30 minutes . We are at the 2.5 hrs mark . You need to wait for the Max , walk in the airport , your layover is a bit shorter because you need to be there by boarding and not leaving . So , you can make it to Moonstruck on Alder street , have a decent hot chocolate and then go back . Sightseeing , not so much . I certainly would rather than sitting at the airport . Moonstruck hot chocolate is one of the better ones on this coast , you need to go as far as Vancouver , BC to have better . ( Or if you have broader horizons , Eataly in New York is best . )
First of all , both Hamar and Lillehammer are located at the Lake Mjøsa , so there will be no net elevation change along the way . The pilgrim 's path does not follow the shore though , so there are some light to moderate inclines along the way , but always accompanied with following descents . Except from telling you that , noone here will be able to tell you which pace you prefer or can manage . Even being less than in ' decent shape ' , hiking 25-30km a day should IMHO be easily feasible in such light terrain . The <URL> of the pilgrim 's road suggests that you use four days ,
One big problem here is that deer , elk and moose ca n't read . They do n't know or care about national park boundaries , highways , etc. . And a moose can weigh half as much as your car ; if you hit one , your car will probably be totaled - and <URL> ! If you 'll watch that video ( and <URL> ) , you 'll note that collisions can even happen in daylight ; the moose can literally come out of nowhere before you have a chance to see them . At night it 's very possible you wo n't even know there is a moose there before you hit it , if it is looking away from you as you drive toward it . Note that while there are more and less populated areas , you can find a moose virtually anywhere in Canada below the Arctic Circle . This includes <URL> , so do n't let down your guard simply because you arrived in a town somewhere . While roads in the areas with high moose activity will have warning signs , as I mentioned before , moose ca n't read and may try to cross the road practically anywhere . You should drive cautiously on this route even in the daytime . If you do drive here at night , the advice I have heard given most often is to carry a passenger who can watch the roadway and help you spot animals who may be on or near the road . If you have n't got a passenger , watch for reflection from their eyes , which you may be able to see from a long way off . The more general advice also applies : Wear your seat belt . Watch both sides of the road . Many people make the mistake of mostly or only watching the right side of the road , especially on motorways like the Trans-Canada Highway . But animals can easily cross the median . ( And note that this highway is dual carriageway in Alberta , but becomes a two-lane single carriageway when you cross into British Columbia . ) Drive more slowly , 90kph or less , to give you more ability to stop and take evasive action , and to reduce the impact of a collision . If you think there may be an animal ahead , turn off your high beam headlights and slow down further . In places which do have signs , be extra cautious , as these are the areas with the highest levels of activity . Be extra cautious at dawn and after dusk . These are the times large animals are most active . Keep your car centred in the carriageway as much as possible , to give you more options for evasive action . If an animal does appear in front of you , just slam on the brakes . If you swerve , you may collide with other traffic ( <URL> ) or lose control of your vehicle . Also note that British Columbia authorities publish advice regarding wildlife on their <URL> website .
I found the following map ( Source : <URL> ) The map is from a charter company , which have suggested routes on their website . One mentions a connection from <URL> . From Ghent on there a multiple possibilities .
I used TomTom Route planner to check this out . And it confirms that <URL> , so I 'd suspect it 's totally fine to travel on .
You may be able to make a <URL> work for you . <URL> <URL> eg <URL> Eureka ! - There are <URL> allowing 3 or 4 or 5 countries of your pecification . These were not shown in the general menu . <URL> PDF download . Large and impressive . Regional Passes : These are usually 2 country passes allowing N days of travel within an overall period . Adding the extra country may make individual pricing cheaper . Austria-Croatia-Slovenia Austria-Czech Republic Austria-Germany Austria-Hungary Austria-Switzerland Benelux-France Benelux-Germany Croatia-Slovenia-Hungary Czech Republic-Germany Denmark-Germany Denmark-Sweden Finland-Sweden France-Germany France-Italy France-Spain France-Switzerland Germany-Poland Germany-Switzerland Greece-Italy Hungary-Romania Italy-Spain Norway-Sweden Portugal-Spain Scandinavia
There are generally two different types of " standby " travel . The first is when you have a confirmed reservation on a later flight , and you " standby " on an earlier flight in order to get to your destination earlier . Many airlines allow this ( sometimes free , sometimes with a fee ) - but I suspect that 's not what you 're referring to . The second type of standby is where you have a specific " standby " ticket - which means that you do not have a confirmed reservation on any flight . If there are seats available on the flight shortly before departure then standby passengers will be given those seats . I 'm guessing this is the type of standby you 're referring to ! Historically a number of airlines allowed for this latter type of standby tickets , often at a discount to the normal price , but with the catch that you might not get on a flight for days or even weeks , depending on how full the flights were . Over the years most airlines have dropped standby tickets - at least to the public - and I 'm not aware of a single airline that offers them on US < - > Europe flights . Most airlines do still allow standby tickets to their own staff , and occasionally to other groups such as family members of staff , staff from other airlines , travel agents , etc - but not to the general public .
end question
start question
Is the " Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act " already valid ?
You may have heard of talk about <URL> , the " Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015 " ( which may also be referred to as the " Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 " ) , which has not been passed by Congress , but you are really looking at the wrong bill . This bill has not passed because it is no longer being considered . Congress decided to pass the provisions through a different bill because politics is confusing like that . Changes to the Visa Waiver Program have indeed been recently passed , as part of <URL> , the " Consolidated Appropriations Act , 2016 " ( the " Omnibus " bill ) , and was signed into law by the President on December 18 , 2015 . The changes to VWP are in <URL> of the bill . The gist of it is that people who have traveled to Iraq , Syria , Iran , or Sudan since Mar 1 , 2011 , or who have the nationality of Iraq , Syria , Iran , or Sudan ( regardless of whether they have ever been to that country ) , are disqualified from using the Visa Waiver Program . People who do n't use the Visa Waiver Program are not affected by these changes . ( For example , some countries are not part of the VWP but their nationals can visit the US without a visa : e.g. Canada , Federated States of Micronesia , Palau , Marshall Islands , and , obviously , the US . ) Update : The US announced that it will <URL> on January 21 , 2016 . It says that people who currently hold ESTAs who have indicated having one of those 4 nationalities will have their ESTAs revoked . It says that the Secretary can waive the restrictions for certain reasons but it 's not clear where in the ESTA process such a waiver would be applied for .
What Is the US Visa Waiver Program ? The <URL> allows travellers of certain nationalities to visit the US for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . This is a bilateral agreement , meaning that all countries participating in the VWP must allow US citizens to visit for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . To date <URL> : Andorra ( 1991 ) Australia ( 1996 ) Austria ( 1991 ) Belgium ( 1991 ) Brunei ( 1993 ) Chile ( 2014 ) Czech Republic ( 2008 ) Denmark ( 1991 ) Estonia ( 2008 ) Finland ( 1991 ) France ( 1989 ) Germany ( 1989 ) Greece ( 2010 ) Hungary ( 2008 ) Iceland ( 1991 ) Ireland ( 1995 ) Italy ( 1989 ) Japan ( 1988 ) Korea , Republic of ( 2008 ) Latvia ( 2008 ) Liechtenstein ( 1991 ) Lithuania ( 2008 ) Luxembourg ( 1991 ) Malta ( 2008 ) Monaco ( 1991 ) Netherlands ( 1989 ) New Zealand ( 1991 ) Norway ( 1991 ) Portugal ( 1999 ) San Marino ( 1991 ) Singapore ( 1999 ) Slovakia ( 2008 ) Slovenia ( 1997 ) Spain ( 1991 ) Sweden ( 1989 ) Switzerland ( 1989 ) Taiwan ( 2012 ) United Kingdom ** ( 1988 ) Passport Requirements Travellers wishing to benefit from the VWP must have a machine readable <URL> with a digital photograph printed on the document . All countries participating in the VWP must , and do , issue these passports to their citizens . If you do n't have an e-Passport to date , you 'll have to apply for one . What Is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? The <URL> is a fully automated process which allows visitors to verify if they are eligible to travel to the US under the VWP . The ESTA is not a visa . The ESTA is not a guarantee that visitors will be admitted entry to the US . Obtaining an ESTA simply means that the applicant meets <URL> . Namely : Who You Are : You are a citizen or eligible national of a Visa Waiver Program country . You are currently not in possession of a visitor 's visa . Your travel is for 90 days or less . You plan to travel to the United States for business or pleasure . You want to apply for a new authorization for one person or a group of applications for two or more persons . <URL> : Q : What is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? A : The Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) is an automated system that assists in determining eligibility to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and whether such travel poses any law enforcement or security risk . Upon completion of an ESTA application , a traveler is notified of his or her eligibility to travel to the United States under the VWP . Who Needs to Apply for ESTA ? <URL> Travellers who normally would require a visa to enter the US should apply for a visa and not for an ESTA . Travellers who are eligible to visit the US under the VWP must obtain an ESTA prior to travelling to the US . This includes travellers who will only transit in the US on their way to somewhere else . Quoting from <URL> : Q : Who is required to apply for ESTA ? A : All eligible nationals or citizens of VWP countries who plan to travel to the United States for temporary business or pleasure under VWP are required to receive an authorization through ESTA prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or vessel . The term " United States " refers to the continental United States , Alaska , Hawaii , Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands of the United States , and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands . Accompanied and unaccompanied children , regardless of age , are also required to obtain an independent ESTA approval . A third party , such as a relative or travel agent , is permitted to submit an ESTA application on behalf of a VWP traveler . Q : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require an ESTA if they are only transiting the United States en route to another country ? A : Yes . Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require either an ESTA or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the ESTA application , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination in the address lines under the heading " Address While In The United States . " <URL> An ESTA is required only for travellers seeking entry by air or sea . How Long Is my ESTA Valid For ? Once approved , an ESTA is valid for two years , and can be used multiple times , provided the reason for the multiple visits to the US remains within the scope of the VWP : business or tourism . If the applicant 's passport has less than two years validity left , the ESTA expires when the passport expires . My ESTA Expires Halfway into my Trip in the US <URL> It does not need to be valid for the entire duration of stay in the US . Therefore , there is no need for a traveller to apply for a new ESTA if their existing one expires whilst they are visiti
If your train to the airport has a stop in Brussels-midi you can surely get of the train earlier . You might need to buy an extra ticket for the Brussels-midi to Brussels airport trip a couple hours later . It 's a good idea to buy that extra ticket before you get on the train to the airport to evade an extra charge of 12 $ or something . But that should be easily doable on the day itself .
There 's <URL> you 'll have to meet to sit in an exit row , such as being in good health . If you meet those , I do n't think you have to worry . In the case of an emergency , you 'd have to assess the situation outside before opening the window and throwing it out of the plane . You 'll be briefed by the flight attendant , so do n't worry if you do n't know exactly what you have to do beforehand .
I wrote an email to DB asking about this , and they responded , Sie können nur ein Identifikationsnachweise nutzen , wo auch der Name eingetragen ist . My translation : You can only use a proof of identity which shows the name .
No . Miles are not a currency that can be moved between programmes . There are some exceptions ( such as Avios , which can be moved between the British Airways Executive Club and the Iberia Plus ) but this is unusual . I am not aware of any SkyTeam programmes that work like this . If it is absolutely essential that you move the miles you might be able to convert via a common hotel partner or through some third party unofficial swap website . But it is likely to be very poor value in the first case and in the second case , a violation of the programme 's terms and conditions . You may buy flights from any SkyTeam airline using any other SkyTeam account . But you can not merge or pool your miles together .
@blackbird57 's answer is correct but refers to a <URL> instead of relevant <URL> on the website of the European Commission : An airport transit visa ( ATV ) authorises you to pass through the international transit zone at an airport located on the territory of the Schengen State and to await a connecting flight to a non-Schengen country . The ATV does not allow you to enter the Schengen territory ( to stay at a hotel or to take an onwards flight to another Schengen State , for example ) . that 's crystal clear . I was struggling with finding a good document to show that Type A means Airport Transit Visa but I found it in the <URL> itself : ' TYPE OF VISA ' heading : In order to facilitate matters for the control authorities , this heading specifies the type of visa using the letters A , C and D as follows : A : airport transit visa ( as defined in Article 2 ( 5 ) of this Regulation )
There are no Schengen wide regulations on how to react on visa violations and overstays . Each member state is free to set their own penalties and reactions . Overstays are usually settled with a fine , but in severe cases , you can also be banned from entering Schengen for a period of time . I ca n't find any current rates , but in 2011 Switzerland issued fines between 200 and 650 CHF for overstaying . In this case , the Swiss immigration officer most probably did n't notice your overstay . When applying for a national visa , you must assume that the consulate will do a more thorough examination of your travel history , especially to the Schengen area , and that the overstay will be noticed and most likely cause problems . You write in a comment : It 's absolutely clear that my overstaying in 28 days is fixed in data base ... Fortunately , this is actually not the case . There is no Schengen wide database for entries and exits and even if some countries operate their own databases , the data is not complete and not suitable to track your travel history . Since currently the only trace of your overstay are the entry and exit stamps in your passport , this might actually be one of the few cases where " losing " your old passport and applying for a new one will solve your problem .
Any government issued ID should be fine , but PAN or passport is the most widely used . You will need to display the ID at airport security as well as the airline check in counter .
Presuming that the " M " in your current license refers to the fact you are licensed to ride a motorcycle in the US , then your US license will be good for up to 3 months duration in Costa Rica . If you do not have a motorcycle license in your home country , then you are only legally allowed to ride scooters up to 50cc . If you are going to be in the country for more than 90 days you will need to get a local license , which presuming you already have a motorcycle license in another country is just a matter of some paperwork ( ie , no riding test/etc ) . You can drive a motorcycle up to 250 cc with a normal license .
You can use ola/uber to go around but if you are not able to find any then just hop into any taxi . If you end up going in a local taxi then only pay the amount which comes up in the cab meter , do not pay even a single extra penny . During peak hours the traffic on Mumbai roads is crazy . I would suggest you to keep an hour and a half as buffer to have a relaxed visit to the mall . Bus services in Mumbai shut by 12:00 AM mostly so it will not be possible for you to get a bus at that time .
Luggage can be collected by flyer only after clearing immigration and thus by buying visa . Fees is QAR 100 ( USD = 100 / ~ 3.65 ) , and can br paid only by card ( any , debit/credit , which will work with visa/mastercard etc networks ) no cash allowed . Source : I live in Doha . Edit : The only certain thing is , if airline does the transfer of luggage from one leg to other , then you do n't need visa . If you , a.k.a Flyer need to collect it &amp; then check it in for next leg , then you need visa . Most probably if you get all the boarding passes at the start of your journey , most of the times it means your luggage is checked through all the way , and airline itself will do the luggage handling at transit airports .
Yes , you can , and I have , as evidence . I flew a very similar route , from Austin to Phoenix , and then on to San Fran . I 've also done other internal flights . All on the Visa-Waiver Program . The visa-waiver is a check done at the international border , as you enter the US from another country . Once you 're within the strict US border , you 're permitted to travel ( legally ) however you want , wherever you want . You may still <URL> , but the visa-waiver aspect wo n't be checked by immigration - it 's simply an ID check by ticket and gate agents at the airport .
Yes , as a citizen of any of the <URL> , you are eligible , provided you 're travelling with a passport from that country too ( not on your Pakistani passport ) . Where you 're born might get you some extra questions on arrival , but does not impact the agreement between countries on this matter . Note : my country of birth is South Africa , considered not eligible and has a record of weak passport protection , among other problems , but I travel on my New Zealand passport , and as such have very little problem travelling into the USA ( although they have occasionally noted my birth place ) . I 've been there several times in the past 5 years , always on the VWP .
Yes you can , my wife recently applied for a tourist visa so she selected the B2 category , but when she eventually got the visa , it was a B1/B2 visa . The way its worded , it seems you can only use B2 for personal travel , but thats not the case .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
Here are my experiences changing two letters of my last name : First and foremost , always keep a translated copy of the document that explains your name change . Just in case . In my case , it was actually not even a notarized copy . After I got a new passport , I had to get a new residence permit with a new name ( I was living in Germany with an Azerbaijani passport back then ) , but that was a very straightforward process . I also had to get my drivers renewed , also quite straightforward . I still have my diploma with my old name , but it was not an issue when I was applying for grad schools in US . I however supplied a copy of the document explaining my name change . While living in US , I had a social security number with my old name , got that replaced with no problems as well . Overall I do n't remember having any issues due to my name change , so I would say do n't worry about it .
<URL> do not mention this , and <URL> seems to argue that you can use just the return journey without taking the outward train . According to several users , return tickets are treated like two singles and are therefore independent .
A type D visa , like a residence permit , allows you to make short trips to the other Schengen countries -- very much as if you held a long multiple-entry type C visa or were visa-free . You only need to comply with the 90-of-180 days rule for the days you spend in Schengen minus the Czech Republic . The " valid for " field on D visas state the issuing country rather than " Schengen States " , because it is only in that country you get the full rights implied by that visa . The less extensive rights to short visits is something one needs to just know . It is not true that you " can only enter EU from the Czech Republic " . You 're perfectly allowed to enter and exit the Schengen Area through any of the external borders . You should be prepared to explain and document that you 're on your way either to the Czech Republic or to an allowed short trip in one of the other Schengen countries . You should bring your passport such that you can identify yourself to any authorities that might ask . A student ID is unlikely to be accepted by police who are already suspicious enough to ask you for papers .
From the <URL> , you 'll discover that there 's a special shuttle bus between the airport . It 's Bus A , and the price is included in the cost of the train ticket if you buy a ticket to/from the airport . It takes about 20 minutes from the airport to the station at Charleroi . There are special train tickets for travel to/from Charleroi Airport . If you go to the <URL> and search from to , then pick from the ticket type dropdown , you 'll see the prices . Currently , it 's $ 14,40 one way . You can read more about the combined bus + train tickets for Charleroi <URL> . Tickets can be bought online , or at the airport , should be the same price .
end question
start question
What is the safest way to travel from Hunza ( North Pakistan ) to Kashgar ( West China ) ?
There 's really only one choice : the Karakorum Highway . Regular buses travel between last Pakistani town on the highway , Sust , and Kashgar . The only caveat is that the highway is subject to closure during the cold season , so it is best to arrange for travel before November . Sust is not a particularly nice place , so if possible try and get tickets before showing up there . If you have to wait a few days before the bus goes , however , just head back down the highway to Passu or Karimabad , which are very nice . Getting to Sust is easy since the Karakorum plunges down through the mountains to the Punjab , where Rawalpindi and Islamabad are located , so you can start your journey from there by tavelling to Gilgit , which is the largest town in the Northern Areas and a transportation hub . If you are in the Hunza , you 'll also want to make for Gilgit , unless you can find transportation directly to Karimabad . Wherever you find yourself on the highway , there are lots of buses ( further south ) and minibuses ( further north ) travelling in both directions . Pre-earthquake , it was possible ( if technically forbidden ) to enter Azad Kashmir and visit Muzaffarabad , but this is strictly optional . A note about the bus between Sust and Kashgar : it 's a two-day ride and you 'll be put in a hotel ( likely unheated ) for a night in Tashkurgan after passing through Chinese customs . The hotel price should be included in the bus ticket , but you might want to double check that . There 's also a " park fee " you have to pay to travel through the last bit of Pakistan . It 's very modest .
While there is plenty of good advice in the other answers , I feel I have some more to offer that is a little less spontaneous . Sleeping on a plane is a learned skill and it is improved by planning , preparation , and practice . You can change the likelihood of sleep from nearly nil to nearly guaranteed , but not if the first time you start to think about it is as the plane starts to taxi . First , the booking . Generally you have some choice here . Should you leave early in the morning , or late at night ? At 4pm , ensuring you 'll be hungry after a few hours in the air , or at 8pm , when you 're more likely to show up having eaten enough to last you through the night ? If it 's a 7 hour flight and you need to stay awake for 2 hours to get food , you 're not getting more than 5 hours of sleep . Pick a flight that either wo n't require you to sleep much , or that lets you organize the rest of your day to maximize the time you have for sleeping . Also think about whether a glass of wine would help - it 's much easier to get one ( bought in the airport , say ) at 7pm than at 7am . Here is also where you settle window/aisle ( I like window because it gives me a wall to lean on and a few more inches of space from my seat to the wall ) , consider paying for more legroom in a premium seat for $ 100 or so more , and the like . Second , the packing . NEVER count on the airline for pillows , blankets etc. . Sometimes they do n't get them . Sometimes they ca n't give you one until the seatbelt sign is off . Airline pillows are small and weird and most annoyingly , they 're slippery and they fall between your seat and the wall . Bring your own . A bed pillow from home , one of those C-shaped things ( solid or inflatable ) , something . I like an inflatable one with a VERY fuzzy cover and a little pocket for eyeshades : I do n't decline blankets or pillows from the airplane though - they are handy for padding the armrest so I can lean against it or over it without the edge digging into me . Continuing with packing , I bring my own blanket in the form of a pashmina which folds very small but unfolds enough to cover all of me ( 6 ' x 2 ' I suppose . ) I generally use separate blankets for my top and bottom half , to help the crew see that my seatbelt is fastened and to let me move more freely . If the airline does n't give out blankets I 'll use a coat on my legs . My pillow and blanket are familiar and comfortable , they smell right , and I never worry if they 're clean . The eyeshade makes a huge difference also , both in keeping out the light and in telling people you are sleeping and do n't want a drink , a newspaper , dinner , duty free , etc. . And for me , the sensation of the eyeshade on my face reminds me I am supposed to be sleeping . Noise cancelling headphones and a playlist of relaxing and enjoyable music are also on the packing list . These are better than earlugs in my experience , though I always have a few earplugs in the bag just in case . Over-the-ear can be uncomfortable to lie on , so I use earbuds . Plug into the entertainment system when you board , put them in , go to sleep . If you wake later , switch to your playlist and put your seat back . When you have to put your seat up , switch back to their system . I also choose shoes I can slip off and slip back on rather than ones that need tying . Your laceups can be in your checked luggage . So you chose the right flight and seat , you packed the right stuff and you 're at the airport . Eat , drink , go to the bathroom . These are all good ways to pass the time while you 're waiting to board . Also bring an empty water bottle with you that you can fill after security , or buy water in the airport . That way if you wake up thirsty you can immediately fix that and go back to sleep . Now on the plane , all you need to do is sleep . Do n't put the pillow around your neck . You have so little recline , you do n't need to prop your head up . Put it between the side of your head and the wall . Put your ear in the centre hole so it does n't get squished . Coat over legs , blanket over shoulder and chest . Snuggled up warm and cosy , listening to something you like , with a water bottle in easy reach and a clear " leave me alone " sign on your eyes , you will sleep . You just will . And trust me , it is so much better than a book or that movie you never got around to watching in theatres . You will get better at it every time . If you wake up , especially if you 're uncomfortable , change your position . Loosen your seatbelt as much as you can and sort of turn on your side . Or move your feet from on top of the carryon you stuffed under the seat in front of you , to next to it . Adjust your blankets a little . Move your pillow more under your chin . Your approach should be that you will do what you need to do to go back to sleep , not " oh well I tried but I woke up . " Do n't worry about what time it is . You wo n't miss your stop . If you wake up again , then try a third position . You 'll find something comfortable eventually . If you feel anxious when you wake up , especially if you 're getting
The following route is cheaper , but not all that much , and it 's not possible in a day . Bus from Taipei to Keelung , NT$ 55 ( < US$ 2 ) , every 10 min Ferry from Keelung to Matsu , NT$ 620 ( ~ US$ 21 ) in economy , daily except Wed , overnight ( dep 21:50 , arr 08:30 ) Ferry from Matsu to Fuzhou ( Mawei ) , NT$ 1300 ( ~ US$ 43 ) , daily at 2pm , ~ 2 hours Train from Fuzhou to Shenzhen , US$ 23 in hard seat , dep 21:25 arr 16:00 next day Total price ~ US$ 85 , but time required close to 48 hours . Note that you can substitute both Taipei-Matsu and Fuzhou-Shenzhen with flights , or travel Fuzhou-Shenzhen on faster trains , but that 'll eat up any price advantage ( eg . FOC-SZN for CNY 480/US $ 80 for random dates in March ) . Ferry prices and schedules courtesy of <URL> , trains by <URL> .
Lipulekh Pass is the only place in Uttarakhand , India where the border crossing is allowed into China . But this is allowed only for the pilgrims that are part of The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra , a pilgrimage to Mount Kailash and Lake Mansarovar . It is very unlikely that other people ( other than pilgrims ) are allowed in this route .
I 'm assuming you do n't want to drive ( that 's still an option though ) but you have the choice between flying or taking the train . According to <URL> Fly Both cities have airports and both Indonesian Airlines and Air China have a service between the two , though the airport in Chita is a little far from the center of town . <URL> Train There 's a train that leaves twice a week to China from Chita 2 station which is closer to the city than the airport . There 's also a night train which interestingly enough seems to take less time , at least according to the website . It 's operated by Russian railways <URL> <URL>
Often trips to North Pole start at Spitsbergen which is mostly Norway ( one village is Russian ) , with one note - they are either helicopter or airplane trips and costs sthm like 15000 euro . If you would like to travel from Russia then icecutter is your choice and it is much more expensive ( though longer ) starting from 24000 USD and to infinity 8 ) ) . Here is link to reliable travel company <URL> ( translate it via Google translate ) . Trip starts in Murmansk . Also look at tema 's post about North Pole - <URL> ( again Google translate ) Travel there is expensive . There is no commercial aviation or transport there . Just military or travel companies .
The cheapest way is to buy two domestic tickets : either Paris -- Hendaye and Irun -- Madrid , or Paris -- Cerbère and Portbou -- Madrid . See below for details . For this kind of questions , in general , <URL> is a useful resource . It is most useful in connection to Interrail , but also useful in general to get an overview of connections . For example , for Paris -- Madrid , it links <URL> . Normally , the best connections is to take the Corail Lunéa from Paris to the Franco-Spanish border at Hendaye/Irun , then take a Spanish domestic train from there . According to Raildude , this connection is currently ( 2013-01-17 ) suspended , but it 's bookable at tgv-europe . com ( see below ) , so I 'm not so sure anymore how good Raildude really is ;) . To find the cheapest option , you have two alternatives : Either find a date that the <URL> is affordable . In a Super reclining seat , it might not have to be as expensive as your quote . I recall some tickets were as cheap as 70 $ , but I do n't find any examples cheaper than the price you quoted right now . Or , probably cheaper , have separate tickets for the French and Spanish legs . This means either a French night train and a Spanish day train , or a French day train , a night at the border , and another Spanish day train . There 's also a Spanish night train to Portugal that you could depart from in the middle of the night , but that 's neither cheap nor comfortable . Inside France , you can use the <URL> to find cheap connections ( day or night ) . Try to search from Paris to Hendaye . Most days the cheapest ticket is 33 $ , but on some days tickets are as cheap as 17 $ . The cheapest ticket is either a seat on a day train , or a seat on a night train . Look carefully from what station in Paris the train departs , because night trains depart from a different station . Inside Spain , consult <URL> . Since you have already selected the date for the French part , you have less flexibility here , but my experience is anyway that ticket prices are less varying in Spain than in France . The interface is in Spanish ; there is an English language interface , but it may be less complete . Renfe.com will normally only list direct trains . Click on Compra de biletes and search Irun to Madrid . Irun -- Hendaye is just 5 km , and most domestic trains continue to the first station across the border , even if domestic train sites do not list this . Check a timetable to be sure . Ida means one way , Ida y vuelta means round trip . For March , I 'm currently finding tickets for as little as $ 16.65 , which would put your total train Paris -- Madrid to potentially less than 35 $ , though more likely around 60 $ since you rarely get the cheapest option for all legs . From the comments below , you may also try Paris -- Figueres and Figueres -- Madrid ( daytime 5 hours ) , or Paris -- Cerbère , Port Bou -- Barcelona , and Barcelona -- Madrid , or , at night , directly Port Bou -- Madrid . The TGV does n't serve Cerbère or Port Bou ( and is therefore not listed in the low-price calendar listed above ) , but can be reached by regional train from Perpignan in 30 minutes , hourly connections from Paris ( check the travel-planner at <URL> . Then the night train Port Bou -- Madrid departs 19.03 , arrival Madrid 07.21 . Unlike international night trains , domestic night trains in Spain are not very expensive . One other alternative : If you 're going from Germany to Spain and back all the way by train , you might want to consider to get an <URL> . You 'll need to buy a 50 % - ticket to and from the border of your own country , but after that you only need reservations . Particularly if you 're in the youth category ( below 26 years old ) that might very well lead to a cheaper journey , with the big advantage that your tickets are flexible , and can be rebooked at ( almost ) no financial cost . Rebooking however can involve long queues at railway stations , particularly in France ...
It is currently impossible to cross the border at all . Recent info from <URL> ( which I have praised in <URL> ) as <URL> Since the April 2015 Nepal Earthquake , the Tibet Nepal border has been closed to foreign travelers . [ ... ] At this time , it is impossible to say when this border will reopen . [ ... ] For now , it remains impossible to say when exactly the border will reopen . And this is still all that can be said . You may have gotten hopeful by <URL> linked in <URL> above - however that precedes a massive rockslide just past the Chinese border buildings following heavy rains in July 2016 at Kyirong . You should give a good look to <URL> and especially the sections " When will the Tibet-Nepal Border Reopen ? " and " What Areas Are Closed ? " The author of the website/blog promises to update that article once there are changes and post <URL> as well . The old border in Zhangmu seems to be a ghost town by now and apparently there are no plans to re-open the border . While residents claim the street condition on the Nepal side is as before the earthquake , there is still the occasional ( fatal ) boulder that comes down , as reported in <URL> .
None is completely reliable in that part of the world . Bring plenty of patience and plan a good amount of time between bus arrivals and departures . The La Paz - Uyuni segment is the roughest . While you can do half ( Potosi-Uyuni ) on train which is more comfortable , it makes logistics more complicated . Train cancellations are common and so are bus ones but at least there are a lot more buses going back-and-forth . If you do not mind going back to La Paz , you can do a round-trip to Uyuni by plane which is what I would do having done the bus to Uyuni route 2 months ago . While I had booked a more spacious bus , a few hours before its departure I received a call saying it broke down and had to take the regular bus which transports more locals than tourists and makes more stops . This one was supposed to take 12 hours , instead of 10 for the tourist bus , but it actually tool 22 hours which include two flat tired , road-blocks , detours and taking the wrong route ! It wo n't surprise you that I flew back after that . Peru buses are clearly a level ahead of those in Bolivia with fewer delays and more space per person . As they are more touristy though , you get more thefts in Peru than Bolivia . Inside the bus is not much of a problem if you keep your things close but watch where your luggage is at stops . If you can not see it from where you are seated , exit at each stop and hop back on when the luggage compartment closes .
You can take the N10 ( <URL> ) all the way across the southern coast of Pakistan and it will put you in the south of Iran , completely by-passing Afghanistan . To get to it though , you 'll have to travel from China through India and cross into Pakistan . If you fancy a journey through Pakistan itself , you can cross at the Wagah point in Lahore ( the provincial capital of Punjab , Pakistan ) . You can get to it from Amritsar in Indian Punjab . From Lahore , you can take the highway ( or fly ) down to Karachi ( the largest city in Pakistan ) , and then just take the road to the port of Gawadar . The journey will take you through a <URL> and a <URL> . You will cross the border at the city of Taftan , which will drop you in Mirjaveh in Iran . Update : I recently returned from Pakistan and the passages are still there , but due to the <URL> a police escort must be requested for foreigners crossing land borders into Iran and Afghanistan .
One option is to take the train . I 've just looked for a random weekday in September , and there 's basically one train an hour in each direction . It 's direct , and takes just shy of 4 hours . To get train times , your best bet is to use <URL> and search from there . ( Yes , that is the German railways rather than the Italian I 'm suggesting , but they have a better site and can search basically all of Europe ! ) In terms of Cheap , it is n't too bad . It 's about $ 100 return if you book in advance onto specific trains ( Mini ) , rising to about $ 200 for a flexible ticket ( Flessibile ) .
You can , but it is a very roundabout solution . From Phuket , you must travel to Singapore . From there you can take the Ferry to the port of Belawan . Then travel to Banda Aceh . Another route is from Pulau Aceh which travels to MIN Ulee Lheue . Unfortunately according to here , <URL> , the ferry from Penang was closed . The ferry from Penang is no longer operating . One thing I did notice , have you thought about flying out of Penang ? It seems flights are much cheaper . SIDENOTE : If you fly from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur in early Dec. the rates are much cheaper . Then fly from Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . But I can see why you mentioned this is complicated . ADDENDUM : However , I looked up flights in Air Asia matching early Dec flights . My trip went from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur , then Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . PH - > KL $ 45.25 Dec 3 Depart 8:05 -10:20 AM flight KL - > BA $ 35.75 Dec 3 Depart 13:15 -13:45 PM BA - > KL $ 42.20 Dec 10 Depart 8:50 -11:20 AM KL - > PH $ 48.61 Dec 10 Depart 18:05 -18:40 Total Price : $ 171.81 or 5950.38 Thai Baht
Aside Greyhound ( costing 30-60 ) , <URL> shows various other bus options including <URL> costing 20 . There is also a bus combination using <URL> which supposedly costs 19-24 . <URL> can get you there for as low as 11 one way depending on what day of the week you 're traveling and how far in the future you book your ticket . The bus trip takes 4 to 4.5 hours
They mean the <URL> which is commonly used in Pakistan for inter-city transport . Image Credit : <URL> Here is one in action :
The <URL> site refers visa applications to the <URL> . According to this site , they have locations in London , Manchester , Stockholm , Gothenburg , Copenhagen , The Hague , Brussels , Paris , Marseilles , Milan , Rome and Madrid . The terms of their online application state that applicants must be a citizen or resident of the country where the application is made . ordinary passport holders who are UK citizens and citizens of other countries possessing UK permanent residence or work permits However , you may be able to make an application in person at one of these locations or at a Chinese embassy or consulate in Europe . As <URL> have reported success doing this . At the consulate in Goteborg , Sweden all we had tp produce were our passports , the completed application form with the passport sized pics and the money for the visa . In fact it all went very smoothly .
They wanted $ 40 , but I managed to get it for $ 35 .
<URL> shows the C12 route taking 57 minutes ( and 15 stops ) , traveling more directly west-east . <URL> also shows an alternative route , the S10 train to a connection with the C10 bus in Como , which takes about 2 hours . Its <URL> that shows the numerous stops and includes towns that document the 1-hour route ( such as Cima , Porlezza , Croce ) . The <URL> is in effect between 9 June to 11 September ; winter schedule begins on 12 September ( through 8 June ) . To interpret the abbreviations used on the schedule : Scol are those that run on school days ( scolastici ) , which include Saturdays . Fer6 means buses that run Monday-Saturday ( all six feriale or working days ) ; Fer5 are for buses that run Monday-Friday . Fest indicates Sunday and national holidays ( festivo ) . Gior is every day or daily ( giornaliero ) .
Unfortunately , ca n't provide any english-language links . Try to contact <URL> , they have amazing pack of offers , such as tour to the Lake Khövsgöl on horse or even hunting ! You 'll stay in lovely houses like this , they have sattelite TV there and traditional Mongolian furniture :
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
end question
start question
How to find a cheap tour to Wieliczka salt mines from Krakow ?
There are really dozens of tour operators that offers tours to the Salt Mines . I would recommend to use collect some flyers and compare the conditions . I personally can recommend the tour that is provided by the <URL> . They have an agreement with a tour operator that picks you up directly in front of the hostel and then drives you there in a comfortable minibus . After the tour you 're picked up at the mines and you can again leave the minibus directly in front of the hostel or in the old town center . The price was 10 Euro per person including everything , which I personally think is very reasonable . But we got a student discount of 50 % , so the normal price is a little bit higher . I assume that other tour operators have more or less the same offers .
It 's possible to do both in one day , but I would n't recommend it - it 's a lot to take in , and makes for a very long day . There 's so much to see in Krakow old town , that it 's worth spreading them out and spending your down time on a city tour or just walking around trying random foods in old restaurants or seeing the performers in the main square , or just sitting in the parks . What I did can be read on my blog , so I 'll include the links : <URL> <URL> They are run by <URL> , and were pretty reasonable . Now , the reason I suggest a tour . For the mines , you 'll find that as an individual it 's possible to get out there ( see <URL> ) , but then you 'll have to find a tourist group to latch onto , as you ca n't explore them on your own . Also possible , you just have to ask around . For the Auschwitz and Birkenau tour , it 's one of the most depressing ( but important ) tours to do , and personally , I found it better to make some new friends on the tour to have someone to talk to about it . We had an Israeli guy with us who 'd had relatives at the site , and that was really interesting . But it 's quite a moving place , and I 'm glad I did n't do it alone , to put it simply . Also really recommend Greg and Tom 's Hostel , by the way - 3 min walk from the train station !
There are a few companies in Tarapoto that go to Chachapoyas , we asked around and we found Movil tours ( big buses ) and Turismo Selva ( combi ) that went direct to Chachapoyas and Excluciva ( big buses ) and Virgen tours ( combi ) that went to Pedro Ruiz . Pedro Ruiz is a common stop along that route , on the way back we stopped there and flagged a combi type van that took us back to Tarapoto . There 's very frequent vans on that route so it 's always possible to just signal to one and if there 's space they 'll take you . In the end we went with Turismo Selva because they had the earliest departures ( 7am ) and it cost 35 soles .
I 've found reviews at Trip Advisor and , especially , Booking.com to be reliable . You can get mobile apps for both . The idea of sticking to one chain is also reasonable , but it might be difficult in some of the less populated areas . Off topic , on that route I recommend making a detour to as many National Parks of the Southwest as possible .
There 's a railway station at Old Trafford itself , handily called " Manchester United Foodball Ground " . Looking at the <URL> it looks to be right by the stadium , and <URL> concurs . The <URL> suggests that trains to Old Trafford depart from Manchester Picaddilly , so that should make things easy . However , <URL> suggests trains only stop there on match days , so it depends if you 're going to see the stadium , or a match there . There are <URL> Metrolink tram stations a short walk away , Exchange Quay and Old Trafford . If it is n't a match day , your best bet is probably to change onto the tram to get there .
So I 've just been there and back , and I 'm posting a bit more info in case it 's useful to someone else . The single trip using public transport does take something between 2.5 and 3 hours , and cost in total between $ 18 - $ 22 ( single trip ) , but is definitely doable and convenient , particularly if you are travelling alone and with not much luggage . First one has to get from the airport ( IAD ) to Washington D.C. For these either the <URL> ( to West Falls Church ) or the <URL> ( to Rosslyn ) seem convenient . I decided to go for the Flyer bus , which costs $ 18 round trip ( you can return at anytime within one month ) and runs every half an hour ( on the 15 and 45 every hour ) . On retrospect , the Metrobus might be a ( slightly ) better choice , as then I would get at least a chance to " see " a bit of DC since Rosslyn is closer to the center of the city , but anyway . Either way , now one has to cross the city using the metro , most likely using the Orange line to New Carrollton . Make sure to have small notes to <URL> on the machine . How it works is that you look up your destination on a list on the machine , identify the fare that you must pay ( chances are that you have to pay the peak fare and add an extra $ 1 for the paper ticket ) , select that amount on the machine and enter then the bank notes . From West Falls Church to New Carrollton I paid $ 6.75 ( and the same when coming back ) . At New Carrollton you can then take the <URL> to Annapolis which costs $ 5 a ride . This one was a bit tricky , first you have to exit the metro station through the south exit onto a big parking lot . You will see several bus stops , with maps and clearly marked signs of the bus routes stopping there ; but 921 does not stop on any of those . It stops at some at some nondescript " kiss and go " area within the parking lot , only some small numbered stickers " 921 " will give you an indication that this is the place to wait . The small white bus/van itself is also rather nondescript , it may or may not say " Annapolis " on the side . Anyway , the people around and the drivers were typically nice and helpful , so ask if in doubt . It might also come handy to have with you <URL> , as this bus does n't run often , and you might have to wait some time . The return trip works easy as well , following the same instructions in reverse order . It might only be helpful to know that the bus stops for 921 in Annapolis are similarly rather nondescript , sometimes the only indication is a sign with the YTS logo . Also the bus might be late ( once I waited some 10-15 minutes ) , so allow yourself some extra time for the travel , do n't make too tight a plan if you need to catch a plane . As I said , although it takes a bit of time , the trip is somewhat cheap and convenient . Specially if you are travelling light . I did ask at the counter of the SuperShuttle , but the price for a single trip would have been of $ 70 . This might make more sense only if you are travelling as part of a big party and you can split the costs among yourselves .
The Train looks to be quite a good bet to me . It looks like Kingston is on the main Montreal-Toronto line , for which <URL> . I just asked <URL> for details for a random weekday in about a fortnight 's time . There are 10 trains per day , a web special advanced purchase tickets start at $ 56 ( but are mostly sold out for 2 weeks time , so book early ! ) . Normal tickets are $ 65 - $ 89 , depending on how far in advance you book and how much flexibility you need . Oh , and if you do take the train , try to sit on the left hand side as you head towards Toronto - you get some stunning views out across the rivers and lakes from that side !
For free , you ca n't miss <URL> . ( photo from <URL> ) The grounds themselves are beautiful just to walk around or for a photo-op ( including views of the Salt Lake Temple itself as well as reflecting pools and countless gardens ) but there are a <URL> to visit and/or tour , too . Some of the highlights : <URL> -- Two restaurants , tours , and a <URL> at the Legacy Theater . <URL> -- A home of Brigham Young ( second president of the LDS Church and first governor of Utah ) . The home is well-preserved and the tour is very interesting . It really gives you a feel for 19th century living ( of a statesman , of course ) . <URL> -- great view of the Salt Lake Valley from the observation deck of this 26-story building . <URL> <URL> -- the highlight is a beautiful replica of <URL> . Ensign Peak ( view from Ensign Peak , photo from <URL> ) <URL> has a great view and is a short and easy hike just minutes from downtown Salt Lake City . This is the Place park <URL> consists of a monument to the <URL> in the Salt Lake Valley , as well as a visitor 's center/shop and a village of preserved pioneer homes . There is a small admission fee .
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
I have had this problem in other US cities ( and , to be fair , other countries/cities before ) . I think many taxi companies are not that interested in taking advance bookings - either they figure there 's a good chance you wo n't turn up , or they just do n't manage their taxis that way . In either case , in US cities , when booking something like this a day or two in advance , I tend to use something like a limo/black car service instead - which is n't as expensive as you might be imagining ( in other words , can be price competitive with a taxi ) . I tend to use an aggregator - something like <URL> , which searches several services . There are lots of alternatives , though .
Kars has quite a harsh climate . In November and December the driving conditions are not the best in that area . Moreover , if you do n't want to freeze your balls off , think twice before considering options that involve walking , hitchhiking or waiting for buses or taxis in the middle of nowhere . From Kars there is a bus to Hopa , on the shores of the Black Sea . It takes more or less 6 hours ( for roughly 300 kilometers ) . In Summer this bus runs daily . I do n't know about the Winter schedule . It may be less frequent ... From Hopa , you can take a <URL> or a taxi to Sarp . It 's + - 10 kilometers . Cross the border and continue by taxi or minibus to Batumi . Unless you really want to go to Kars , you do n't have to . The train from Ankara to Kars ( Doğu Ekspresi ) also calls at Erzurum . It 's a more pleasant place than Kars . Spend the night there and take an early morning bus to Hopa . There are a couple of buses every day on that route . The journey will last + - 5 hours . Both options involve scenic rides . And you will have to spend at least one night in either Erzurum or Kars .
There are several . Two of the biggest are : <URL> <URL> Hope that helps ! Another trick I figured out in Kazakhstan is to search for foursquare.com posts about wifi - for example , I was wondering if Astana airport had free wifi , and indeed , <URL> confirmed that it did , and that it is fast ! :)
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
You can try <URL> . They do airport transfers to hotels in the CBD for about $ 36 return . They do n't state what times they operate , so you may have to call them to confirm if they run that late .
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
Euros are your best bet . The North Korean won is not convertible , and all facilities for tourists price in and accept euros . Koryo Tours , the largest operator of DPRK tours , <URL> : Currency The official exchange currency in DPRK is now Euros ( USD were taken out of circulation in 2003 but can still be used though we advise you bring Euros ) . It is possible to exchange other currencies ( such as Pounds , Yen , Renminbi , HK Dollars ) in the hotel but be aware that the rate will not be in your favour , better to change the money before entering the DPRK . We do not recommend taking in travellers cheques as they are difficult to cash . Economic reforms at the end of 2002 mean that the DPRK Won is now valued at roughly 165 won to 1 Euro . It may be possible to get hold of real DPRK money in the hotel but the best currency to use when buying goods remains the Euro .
I looked at <URL> 's English and Japanese-language web sites , but neither of them appears to have any weather alerts , nor even any section for weather information or cancellations . Your best bet for accurate information , then , is probably to call them ( 092-281-2315 ) . That said , based on the weather prediction , I expect you 're going to be cutting it very close . The Beetle does claim a <URL> and the ability to operate in <URL> , so I expect that they will operate right to those limits . I would n't expect the final decision to run or cancel your particular ferry to be made until the last minute , taking into account weather conditions at the time .
Aside Greyhound ( costing 30-60 ) , <URL> shows various other bus options including <URL> costing 20 . There is also a bus combination using <URL> which supposedly costs 19-24 . <URL> can get you there for as low as 11 one way depending on what day of the week you 're traveling and how far in the future you book your ticket . The bus trip takes 4 to 4.5 hours
Have you tried to visit Jjimjilbang ? I seldom go to a public bath , and sometimes I can see a man with tattoo . I think most of Jjimjilbangs will not block you to use it . I am able to say this because I assumed that it will be a small tattoos ( i.e. on arms or on neck back . ) But with a big tattoo like covered whole your back ? . . Let 's think about it . I saw your linked question . In Japan , tattooed people might have been discriminated for some reasons . That is , probably , the awareness of tattoo is not good . In Korea , we also thought that way but slightly different . I think it is very related with the size of the tattoo . With smaller one , people think they want to make themselves unique . But bigger its size , people start thinking more that they are connected with/or a member of gangster . Actually , the size of tattoo is very important . Even if big one , they will not prohibit you to use it . I found out Some public bath noticed " A man who have big tattoos refrain from using this . " at internet news , even though they will not refuse you . Just enjoy it with some great care . I do n't know where sauna is exactly accepting tattooed people , but try to go to bigger sauna . It has a higher chance to not fail .
The obvious initial answer for filtering your selection is to ask them where they go . Some may be offering an ' historic ' tour , a ' river walk ' , ' museum stroll ' or whatever - and depending on the variations of routes , even for a ' sights of the city ' tour you may see some variation and see something one has that others do n't that you do n't want to miss . Once you 've narrowed it to the set that matches what you want , look at who they are . Many these days are free - run by students , or as a loss-leader by companies who then promote their paid tours at the end . Consider if this affects your decision . Next , if you 're going with one of the companies that also has paid tours , look at their paid tours and see if any look interesting to you . If so , it would be worth going with their free one , so that you get an idea for the company 's pace , style and information . Finally , one of the big sellers for me in Berlin was asking the tour guide 's history . They were a British student doing their masters in European History , and they lived and breathed this stuff . The perfect informative person for such a tour .
end question
start question
Why are you now required NOT to smile in passport photos ?
The contents of the main page in a passport is dictated by standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) , specifically the Machine Readable Travel Documents standard ( <URL> ) . This document states that all passport photos should meet the following requirements : Pose 1.1 . The photograph should be less than six months old . 1.2 . It should show a close up of the head and shoulders . 1.3 . The photograph should be taken so that an imaginary horizontal line between the centres of the eyes is parallel to the top edge of the picture . 1.4 . The face should be in sharp focus and clear with no blemishes such as ink marks , pen , pin , paper clip , staples , folds , dents , or creases . 1.5 . The photograph should show the subject facing square on and looking directly at the camera with a neutral expression and the mouth closed . 1.6 . The chin to crown ( crown is the position of the top of the head if there were no hair ) shall be 70 -80 % of the vertical height of the picture . 1.7 . The eyes must be open and there must be no hair obscuring them . 1.8 . If the subject wears glasses , the photograph must show the eyes clearly with no lights reflected in the glasses . The glasses shall not have tinted lenses . Avoid heavy frames if possible and ensure that the frames do not cover any part of the eyes . Sunglasses can not be worn or appear on the person 's head . 1.9 . Coverings , hair , headdress , hats , scarfs , head bands , bandanas or facial ornamentation which obscure the face , are not permitted ( except for religious or medical reasons . In all cases , the person 's full facial features from bottom of chin to top of forehead and both edges of the face must be clearly visible ) . 1.10 . The photograph must have a plain light coloured background . 1.11 . There must be no other people , chair back , or objects in the photograph . Lighting , Exposure , and Colour Balance 2.1 . The lighting must be uniform with no shadows or reflections on the face , eye-glasses or in the background . 2.2 . The subject 's eyes must not show red eye . 2.3 . The photograph must have appropriate brightness and contrast . 2.4 . Where the picture is in colour , the lighting , and photographic process must be colour balanced to render skin tones faithfully . Submission of Portrait to the Issuing Authority Where the portrait is supplied to the Issuing Authority in the form of a print , the photograph , whether produced using conventional photographic or digital techniques , should be on good or photo-quality paper . Compliance with International Standards 4.1 . The photograph shall comply with the appropriate definitions set out in ISO/IEC 1974 -- 5 . The last of the points above is probably the most important as far as " why " - <URL> defines standards for Biometric data interchange formats , with part 5 specifically being Face image data . According to the ISO/IEC 19794 documents : To enable many applications on variety of devices , including devices that have the limited resources required for data storage , and to improve face recognition accuracy , this part of ISO/IEC 19794 specifies not only a data format , but also scene constraints ( lighting , pose , expression , etc. ) , photographic properties ( positioning , camera focus , etc. ) , digital image attributes ( image resolution , image size , etc. ) .
Generally speaking , " yes " . A BA aircraft is registered in the UK and therefore is covered by the UK laws . Under the UK law it 's an offence not to obey the order of the flight crew while on the aircraft . Specifically , this is covered by the <URL> : A person must not while in an aircraft ... ( c ) intentionally interfere with the performance by a member of the crew of the aircraft of the crew member 's duties . As you can imagine , flight attendants ' duties include a lot of walking up and down the aisle , including rolling the trolley with food/drinks . If you are standing in the aisle you would be interfering with their duties . Additionally , they are tasked with ensuring the safety of passengers while in flight . If the " fasten seatbelts " sign comes on , it is their responsibility to ensure that all passengers are seated with seat belt fastened , therefore if you do not perform this , you are , in essence , intentionally interfering with the performance by a member of the crew . With the legal technicalities out of the way ... The air crew are also people and are very understanding ( usually ) of others ' needs . You should speak with them before the flight commences and explain the situation . Most likely they would allow you to stand to perform your prayer in the galley at the rear of the plane . Yet if the " fasten seat belt " sign is switched on , you will have to return to your seat and sit down - this will be mandatory .
None , except the obvious : following the rules for the sake of following the rules , instead of their intent . The ziplock bag exists as a convenient ( and IMHO rather clever ) way to visualize the liquids rules : you 're allowed 1 ziplock bag of size 1 liter/quart containing items with up to 3 fl.oz / 100ml of liquid/gel each , and the TSA even brands this as the " <URL> " . If your items fit in a ziplock bag , they 're likely to comply ; if they do n't , further inspection is warranted . So why would a security checkpoint confiscate another compliant toothpaste tube just because it 's not in a ziplock bag ? Because <URL> . And for a low-level bureaucrat , there is no penalty for enforcing the rules too zealously , while using common sense but making a mistake might get them fired . Doubly so in a place like Dubai , where everything is outsourced to the lowest bidder .
Visitors to Jamaica must have a yellow fever vaccination ( and accompanying proof ) if they 've arriving from a yellow fever prone country . Other than that there are plenty of recommended vaccinations but none required . <URL> <URL>
I use a combination of packing cubes , amenity kits I get for free from airlines , and cheap little zippered bags that get sold as pencil cases , makeup kits etc ( the dollar store has lots of sizes . ) I deliberately get a wide variety of colours ( so they 're easy to tell apart ) and sizes ( because sometimes you need a lot of room and sometimes you do n't . ) I give each bag a name - " bathroom stuff " , " first aid kit " , " eating kit " ( this is spare napkins and disposable cutlery , little extra packets of sugar , instant coffee etc , that you need when you 're eating on the go or in your room and you 're missing something ) , and so on . My packing list actually calls these things out by their names and colours eg " yellow first aid kit " and I have the packing list split up by bag and part of the bag so I might know that the yellow first aid kit is in the silver suitcase , on the far left when the handle is towards you . Clothes are in packing cubes by size - so one small cube is underwear , socks , etc , while a larger cube is shirts . If I do happen to toss an extra pair of socks in when I leave home , the next time the stuff comes out of the suitcase , those socks will be moved to the cube where they belong . This technique worked great on a 5 week trip where we packed and unpacked as frequently as every night and the longest in one place was 4 nights . Nothing got lost and we always knew where things were .
They have the holes because of the machines that made them ( check DavidG 's answer ) , anyway this ice cubes with holes are better for planes for a few reasons : Because they are lighter ( believe it or not , every gram in the aviation business counts , plus the ice is not made onboard , it is loaded prior to departure just like the food ) They cool things faster due to larger area of contact with the liquid They also will allow more liquid to be filled in the already small airplane cups . Last thing , they do not tend to stick together in the ice bucket , so cabin crew wo n't need to smash it to break it down .
You are actually asking two separate questions : When my cruise ship stops in Victoria , will the Canadian border people let me come into the country for a day visit without a passport ? When my cruise ship , which was at least briefly in another country , returns to the USA and I want to get off it ( probably in Alaska for some day activities , but very certainly in Seattle when you want to return to your home ) will I be allowed into the United States without a passport ? There was a time when US citizens could come into Canada without a passport , with drivers licenses and such like . It 's possible that at the cruise terminal you could get by with less than a passport . Here is <URL> . Note the birth certificate to prove US citizenship along with the drivers license to prove you are the person named on the birth certificate . If your name has changed since you were born you 'll need paperwork to establish the identity chain . I would n't risk it myself , but the worst case here is that you are n't allowed to go have your day trip . US citizens do n't need visas to visit Canada , but without a passport , how do the border people know you 're a US citizen ? It 's not a requirement for boarding cruise ships , getting drivers licenses , and so on . The second case is much more serious . You want to be sure you will be let back in . Current rules say that <URL> , even if it stops in other countries . Essentially they are trusting the cruise ship not to take on random passengers in the foreign ports and help them enter the US . That said , they still recommend you have a passport just to make life smoother . ( Here 's <URL> - you can probably find a similar page on the site of the cruise provider you 're considering . ) So if there is a reason why just getting a passport is n't an option , the cruise is n't impossible ( US businesses have found ways to deal with the fact people just wo n't get passports ) but life will be smoother if you have one . I 'd recommend getting one .
I have been to Prague over a weekend once so here are my suggestions based on that trip . I am sure there are much more to consider . Hradčany castle on the left bank of Vltava is impressive and the area around it worth a stroll . A bit to the south is a park on a hill reachable with a funicular . At the top is an old mirror house . The old town is really nice to just wander around in Charles Bridge ( Karlův most ) is truly an awesome piece worth visiting both in daylight and with a mystical vibe in the night The old jewish cemetery may not be fun but truly amazing and interesting . And do n't forget to sample their excellent beer with accompanying knödel . Photos : <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
The <URL> website provides vaccination advice . Check the vaccines and medicines list and visit your doctor ( ideally , 4-6 weeks ) before your trip to get vaccines or medicines you may need . For Yellow fever it states : There is no risk of yellow fever in South Africa . The government of South Africa requires proof of yellow fever vaccination only if you are arriving from a country with risk of yellow fever India is not on the <URL> . The recommended vaccines depend on which you already have , what country you live in , and your anticipated activities . For example , a rabies vaccination may be recommended if you are camping , but not if you are attending a conference . By the way , your doctor is probably going to be the best person to give you advice . He or she should be familiar with the vaccination requirements of your destination country , or at least be able to find them readily , as well as the applicability to you and your situation .
I doubt it will change much , driving will still be faster . Based on a <URL> , we find out that it currently takes up to 7 hours by car , while it takes 9 hours by train , through Austria . The Gotthard tunnel is located in Switzerland , and while its goal is to <URL> , there is no fast train route between Munich and Zurich . What is interesting to notice is that on the map , by drawing a straight line between Munich and Genoa , it does not go through Switzerland ( or only along its eastern border ) . So going by train through the Gotthard tunnel will likely not help . If we still try to estimate the time it takes between the two cities with the estimate given in the first article , going between Munich and Zurich currently takes at least 3h40 according to the <URL> in a bus ( ! ) , then say 2h40 to Milano , and finally with the Google Maps search we found that the train between Milano and Genoa takes 1h45 . By adding up all of them , we still find 8 hours . In the end , even if somehow the Deutsche Bahn or the SBB decided to run a train all the way from Munich to Milano/Genoa , the total time it takes will probably not beat the driving time . So unfortunately there will be no change in the hierarchy of faster transportation , driving will still be faster .
The <URL> describing just this , including how to apply for travel documents if one was stateless . They note that : A stateless persons ' document issued to an adult will usually be valid for 10 years if you have permission to stay in the United Kingdom permanently ( known as ' indefinite leave to remain ' ) . If you have temporary permission to stay in the United Kingdom ( known as ' limited leave to remain ' ) , your stateless persons ' document will usually be valid for the same period as your permission to stay here , up to a maximum of five years . In addition they point out that if granted , a stateless persons ' document is normally valid for travel to all countries . Indeed , since 1954 , you 've been able to obtain a ' <URL> ' which for all intents and purpose , acts as a travel document , like a passport . Indeed , it says ' travel document ' on the front cover . This arose from the <URL> .
Yes , it 's true . In general , Russians never smile without a reason . No , you will not insult anybody in Russia if you smile . But , in some cases it can be assessed as rude or strange . For example , if you smile at a stranger he or she might think " Why is this guy looking at me and smiling ? Do I look stupid ? " Smiling when you say " Hello " is OK . In addition : do n't speak with strangers if you have no business with them . There is no culture of " small talk " in Russia . If you start to talk with a stranger about the weather or traffic jams ( or whatever ) , Russians may think that you are a fool or a salesman . The reason why we act like this is because we respect personal space . If you have no business with the stranger , do n't bother him .
<URL> is the group that manages passenger travel within Germany , and is responsible for the managing , ticketing , servicing and running of all German Intercity-Express , EuroCity , Intercity and Regionalbahn trains , and many commuter-oriented urban Stadtschnellbahn ( generally abbreviated as S-Bahn ) networks within Germany . The group also handles the information and customer service side of the operation . Presumably as your train is running from Dijon , France to Basel , Switzerland , it may fall on a route not covered by DB Bahn . Yes , some of the other routes by its partner companies may be included , but there are competitors on the rail network as well , and there 's no requirement to have those included on their site . Indeed , from <URL> : The Deutsche Bahn 's site does n't show fares for most trains outside Germany and Austria .
<URL> These are the <URL> as defined by ICAO . Looking at <URL> you can see that the ISO 3166-1 codes are used both to identify the issuing country as well as the nationality of the passport holder . So your cousin 's passport seems to be correct . For completeness sake note that ARE is also the NATO 3-letter code for United Arab Emirates .
You got it wrong , there are few types of outlets onboard airplanes : Utility outlets : They are used by the ground/fleet services to clean the aircraft on ground prior to passengers boarding . Usually it will be used for strong vacuum cleaners which requires higher voltage/frequency and can damage electronics not designed for these outlets . This is the type mentioned in the paragraph you quoted above . Shavers outlets : These are found in lavatories , they are designed for electronic shavers and can be used only for shavers . In-seat outlets : These are embedded in the passengers seats and are designed to be used with personal carry on electronics ( laptops , phone chargers ... etc ) . Usually they are deactivated during boarding , take offs and landings and activated during cruise only . This is what you should use and it is available in most major airlines including Cathay Pacific . Also it is mentioned in the <URL> : In-seat power will soon be available across our entire fleet for the devices mentioned above . These in-seat power ratings are however not designed for use with medical devices such as CPAP machines . Passengers must provide their own batteries that are sufficient to power medical portable electronic devices .
Regarding the eiffel tower : <URL> By day , the sun light and the eiffel tower are in public domain , you can take it in picture and publish / try to sell the pictures as you want . By night , the eiffel tower artistic lighting is under copyright if it 's the main subject of the picture . I think if it 's for your little blog among your friends / a little audience , it should be ok ( writing the " copyright Tour Eiffel - illuminations Pierre Bideau " is a plus ) . If you have a big blog or try to make a commercial use , you must ask ( and pay ) for the right at the Eiffel Tower company ( SETE ) . Regarding someone in a picture : <URL> <URL> If the person is the main subject and you can recognize them , you have to ask them before to publish . If they are far away and barely recognizable it 's ok . ( There is an exception for public figure during public life . )
It 's not necessary to have a refusal stamp in your passport . The fact of your visa refusal will be recorded in the <URL> , and the information will be available to the consulates and border officers of all Schengen countries . The same reasons for refusal that are ticked on your refusal notice are also recorded . Thus , all Schengen states will be aware that you have had a previous visa refusal from Germany , and the reasons for the refusal that the consulate gave to you .
Normally I carry a small bag for the overhead compartment , but I was flying from Heathrow to NYC once and carrying only my baise en ville ... It caused me to get flagged up for further questioning by airline security ( it was a US carrier ) . They were very worried that no baggage was checked and I had no carry on . I was attending a party on short notice and fortunately had the invitation with me . I also explained that I was going to purchase some new clothes in Manhattan anyway ( I explained also that I was born there and knew my way around , plus hotel reservations at the Marquis ) . So they let me go ... After this , my advice if you are travelling ' conspicuously light ' is to have something on hand that demonstrates your itinerary and some plausible explanation for not carrying any change of clothes . I also switched to the Victorinox Altmont handbag after that incident , but this may be a spurious connection .
I do n't have any evidence for it but I suspect it might be necessary to satisfy <URL> . If you can provide a nickname , you could conceivably evade automatic checks against no-fly lists and similar databases . Also , many people ( e.g. from places like Indonesia ) go by names that are completely different from what 's on their passport . As @pnuts remarked in a comment , making sure hundreds of airlines and thousands of gate handling personnel all over the world share the same understanding of what 's a nickname and what 's not seems extremely difficult so it makes sense to enact a rigid rule that does not leave any discretion to airline reps. So this is really about security ( or " security theater " ) .
Wikipedia gives the reason <URL> . The Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument make provision for requiring passengers disembarking or embarking in the United Kingdom , or any class of such passengers , to produce to an immigration officer , if so required , landing or embarkation cards in such form as the Secretary of State may direct , and for requiring the owners or agents of ships and aircraft to supply such cards to those passengers . Hence the reason at the moment is that it 's the law , though the form of providing the information could be modified by statutory instrument at any time . The US did something similar with their I-94 forms a few years ago and made them all electronic . However , you still have to fill in a customs form when entering the US so it makes little difference unless you have Global Entry or use the mobile passport application . You can read the whole act <URL> and the specific section to do with landing cards <URL> . The purpose of them was explained in a freedom of information <URL> : Landing cards fulfil the following functions : to provide statistical information for use both inside and outside the department ; to provide a record of the arrival in the UK of persons subject to control ; and To enable the immigration officer to record what a passenger has said to him/her on his arrival , the circumstances which led to the granting of leave to enter and any information which may be useful to caseworkers if the passenger subsequently applies for an extension of stay .
end question
start question
Do I need a hotel booking to get my 72 hour free visa in China ?
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
Luggage can be collected by flyer only after clearing immigration and thus by buying visa . Fees is QAR 100 ( USD = 100 / ~ 3.65 ) , and can br paid only by card ( any , debit/credit , which will work with visa/mastercard etc networks ) no cash allowed . Source : I live in Doha . Edit : The only certain thing is , if airline does the transfer of luggage from one leg to other , then you do n't need visa . If you , a.k.a Flyer need to collect it &amp; then check it in for next leg , then you need visa . Most probably if you get all the boarding passes at the start of your journey , most of the times it means your luggage is checked through all the way , and airline itself will do the luggage handling at transit airports .
First , check whether you need a visa at all . You have n't indicated your nationality , so presumably you have found that you need a visa . According to <URL> , an uncle is not one of the types of family members that would make you eligible for a family visa ( it is generally only immediate family and direct ancestors or descendants ) . Therefore , you probably need to apply for a general visitor visa .
Largely No , but ... The UK does not have exit immigration checks . Your passport will be checked by airlines or ferry staff to verify you 'll be accepted into your destination , but no-one from the UK Border Agency will see/check/etc you or your passport However ... The UK is slowly , and many would say somewhat incompetently , rolling out a scheme originally called <URL> . That will involve carriers ( ferries , trains , airlines etc ) sending electronically to the UKBA the details of everyone entering and leaving the UK . It was partly deployed , and I believe will be rolled into the new program . Under that , there 's a chance that the UKBA will be told the details of you leaving . Your problem is more likely to be on your return to the UK . You 'd be entering the UK on your US passport , which only entitles you to a short visit ( up to 90 days ) , and not for the purposes of living in the UK . You 'll get a stamp . You may have issues with convincing them to let you in given that you do live in the UK , and you may have issues if you do n't leave the UK within 90 days on the US passport as the system may detect you as an overstay .
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
My experience with China 's internet has been " Have a backup plan " if you need access to some services . You can use Google 's <URL> for China to determine the current status of Google Services in PRC . As of writing , no it does not appear to be blocked . However , there are cases where it has been - and it might happen while you are there . If GMail is a critical service to you - have a backup plan . Here are some solutions that have worked for me and others . Have your <URL> to another service such as Hotmail . If GMail goes down , you can check the other service for email . it does n't have to be Hotmail - just distribute your eggs to other baskets . A <URL> / Proxy Server is also another solution - but China has occasionally <URL> traffic as well . However , again it is another option to consider . Keep friends / family informed . Let them know there is a possibility that you may lose access to email . Have access to other means of communication like SMS .
Unfortunately , there is no way to definitively answer this question . Visa outcomes depend from embassy-to-embassy and case-to-case . From what you are describing , it appears the mistake was made by the German embassy rather than by you - although you should have taken the prerogative to check a visa of the correct length had been issued , but there 's not much you can do about that now . I would suggest that you apply for an Estonian Schengen visa and when you 're called for an interview , take documentation along with you to prove your student status in Germany , copies for the application form of your old visa , et al and explain your situation to the visa officer who interviews you . And then hope for the best .
Fortunately the <URL> is quite comprehensive and useful in this case . If you wish to leave the airport i.e you exit out of the airport ( in this case to travel to another airport ) , this is called a Landside transit . You will need a <URL> in order to do so i.e for the LTN to LHR transit . As pointed out by @AndreyChernyakhovskiy , unfortunately the case of Ireland is a little bit more complicated than you would imagine . This is due to the <URL> agreement . Underneath CTA , the flights leaving from British Airports to Ireland are considered short-haul international flights . Thus , they depart from the domestic terminal instead . In order to do this you will need a landside transit visa . More information can be found on the <URL> and the <URL> which clearly state this information as well . If you were an Iranian Citizen traveling to Ireland somehow without passing thru border control i.e doing an airside transit , <URL> . One thing to note here is the exemptions . You would have been exempted from the visa if you were to have : a valid uniform format category D visa for entry to a state in the European Economic Area ( EEA ) Ireland counts as a state in the EEA and thus if you have a <URL> ( i.e a long stay visa ) , you do n't not need a Direct Airside Transit Visa for the UK . In all other cases , otherwise you will need a landside visa and as far as I can see , the only way to get to Ireland from the UK involves passing thru border control at the airport .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
<URL> . Essentially , you have to be able to prove to the immigration officer that you have the intent to return home . ONE of the means of doing so includes having a purchased return ticket , showing that you 're leaving the country on day x. Most countries have this requirement for tourist visas , and for example , in America , it 's very common among travellers to purchase a cheap bus ticket from Seattle to Vancouver as ' evidence ' that they 're leaving . Then when they 've worked out where they 're actually going , they buy a ticket to there , and forfeit the bus ticket . Leaving by sail boat would be harder to prove , and indeed what might be easier is to produce an ' onward ' ticket - for example , a cheap flight to New Zealand , or Singapore or something . Ideally you 'd purchase a refundable or adjustable ticket , so that you can change it or get a refund when/if you go by boat instead . I recommend having a read of that pdf , it gives you several of the other options on what would be ' evidence ' of intent to return , including a job , lease agreement or more .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
No for both countries : Peru : With a few exceptions ( notably some Asian , African and communist countries ) , visas are not required for travelers entering Peru . Tourists are permitted a 30 - to 90-day stay , which is stamped into their passports and onto a tourist card , called a Tarjeta Andina de Migración ( Andean Immigration Card ) , that you must return upon leaving the country . The actual length of stay is determined by the immigration officer at the point of entry . Read more : <URL> Bolivia : Citizens of most South American and Western European countries can get a tourist card on entry for stays up to 90 days , depending on the nationality . Read more : <URL> I had no problem getting 90 days each on the borders .
But as I remember all laptop charger is universal , so I guess I do n't need a voltage converter ? It should be printed on the charger - if it says something like " 100-230V " , you 're fine . Usually this is the case for stuff that people are likely to travel with , such as laptops . And I wonder does those hotel normally will have some power plug or converter that for traveller ? Hotels sometimes have sockets that admit multiple different plugs . If so , the US/Canadian plug will always be included . But such sockets are not always present , and often only in the bathroom , which is not a good place for a computer . Or I have to buy one in Toronto Canada ? I would recommend this to be on the safe side . Plug adapters are cheap , should n't cost more than $ 5
Going with a cruise line is an exception to the rule that you need a visa . Basically , Russia uses the visa requirement to control the inflow of visitors . But if you are with a cruise line that has ALREADY submitted to Russian controls , you are effectively " controlled . " The cruise line will only organize tours/excursions approved by the Russian government , using guides licensed by it . That , and not the " international accommodation " , is the reason for the waiver . When leaving the ship , you will need to show your passport and have it stamped at the custom house . They will then give you a pass that is valid only for that ONE excursion . Needless to say , you have to come back with the rest of the group , and not go out on your own . If you lose your pass , there is a fine . I believe it 's $ 50 . If you stay on board the ship the whole time , none of this applies . Then the " international accommodation " part holds . But if you go on your own ( not a ship sponsored tour ) , then you need a visa .
If your phone charger , and your laptop are relatively new , they should work in Europe as-is , so you only need to bring the power plug adapter . I 've never seen a single-voltage phone/laptop charger in more than ten years . Razor however is different . Even if it says 110/240 , it still might not work due to frequency difference ( i.e. it will work in South Korea with 230V/60Hz , but might not work in France with 220V/50Hz ) . I had a Philips razor which was like that . Note that " razor outlets " provided in bathroom hotels rarely change frequency , only the voltage .
Always follow the marketing airline 's policy , in other words , the airline that sold you the ticket , regardless of which airline is operating the flight . In your case that 's Iberia .
Just asked my Taiwanese friend . She said you have to apply for Tai BaoZheng which can easily be obtained in Taiwan through China Travel Agency . It normally takes 1-2 days . And you can also fly to China and get the Tai BaoZheng at the airport . However , not all airports have the equipments to do that you have to check with the embassy which airport can do that .
A towel is required . And it has to be large enough . You are supposed to sit or to lie on it . One towel can be enough . However , a second towel and/or a bathrobe can be useful too , when you are relaxing outside the sauna . In most of the saunas you can rent towels and bathrobes . If 80x60 refer to centimeters , than it 's not enough . You have to fit on the towel , as shown here : However , sitting like this wo n't be accepted . You will then be kindly reminded to put your feet on the towel :
end question
start question
What is the average cost of a medical evacuation ?
I found a statistic for you that lists the average medical evacuation cost for at least some countries : <URL> As you can see , you have to be prepared for some 10,000 USD .
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
Because it 's difficult to tell apart a bottle full water from a bottle full of a chemical like hydrogen peroxide that could be used to make liquid explosives . There was <URL> that apparently tried this in 2006 , and because " passenger convenience " will always lose out to " bureaucratic ass-covering " when it comes to security theater , <URL> . ( Unless they 're under 100ml , so yes , you can take a 100ml bottle of water on board ... if you can find one ! ) In Japan , they 've already got <URL> . These are increasingly being adopted by other countries , and once they 're widespread enough , the liquid silliness will hopefully end . Note that while you ca n't take a partly or completely filled > 100ml water bottle through security , it 's perfectly fine to take an empty bottle through security , and fill it up before you board the plane . Or you can buy a bottle once you 've passed security .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
A great place to have a bird 's eye view of Boston is the Skywalk Observatory . It is located at the top of the Prudential Center . Please find the link below : <URL> It is not free but it is n't too expensive and open to the public Ticket Prices : Adults $ 13.00 Seniors $ 11.00 Children under 12 $ 9.00 Student with college ID $ 11.00
As I originally pointed out the quantity was with-in reasonable personal use , but still theoretically subject to tax . I did declare the small overage but customs agents were n't interested in it and waved me through . Here are the rates for <URL> and for <URL> that I 'd have had to have payed , they amount to under $ 5 a bottle .
Based on the way that rate is presented on the website you pointed us to , I would say that it is simply a discounted rate , that is called an " Innkeepers Rate " ie a special deal offered the Innkeeper himself/herself . Hotels can get quite creative with their discount program names trying to build the perceived value . Most professional rates , such as the innkeeper rate mentioned in the link in Spehro 's post , are not posted on websites , rather they are only revealed to qualified patrons . Many hotels offer special rates to different professional groups : travel agents , airline employees , corporate employees with special contract rates , etc but these rates are never revealed to the general public .
There have been several studies looking into health risks associated with air travel , though often , it 's the pilots who are the focus of the investigation . A large European study , <URL> , finds in accordance with others that there is a higher incidence of skin cancer in cockpit crews . This has also been observed for cabin crews . However , they do not find a dose-response , i.e. they can not demonstrate that flying more increases skin cancer risk , which is what you 'd expect if it was radiation exposure during the flight that was causing cancer . Consequently , it is quite possible that it 's higher exposure to UV light in their time off work that puts cockpit and cabin crews at a higher risk for skin cancer compared to the rest of the population . In other words <URL> is overly sensationalist . Interestingly , mortality from several other causes is lower in cockpit crews , possibly due to selection effects , i.e. you need to be fit and healthy to get the job , and you make sufficent money to afford good health care : Our study confirms the marked cardiovascular mortality reduction of cockpit crew as compared to the general population . Obviously only very healthy persons are recruited into the profession , and continuous medical supervision may play a role in controlling cardiovascular risk factors . Analyses of mortality by age show that low mortality persists even after retirement . As seen in ESCAPE [ = the name of the study ] subcohorts and independent studies published previously , aircraft accidents , whether private or occupational cause a substantial proportion of deaths especially among younger cockpit crew . Pilots in early phases of their flight career seem to carry the highest risk of accidental death in aviation . Mortality from motor vehicle and other accidents was low . In summary , there may be a higher risk of skin ( and , apparently , breast ) cancer , though staying away from tanning studios and the beach in your spare time possibly alleviates that . What about non-fatal health risks ? Several potential issues come to mind : Exposure to pathogens , stress , and high noise levels . Exposure to pathogens is of course a concern in an enclosed space , and there are reports of infections spreading on planes <URL> . When levels of <URL> and <URL> have been measured , it was found that they were highest during on/off boarding , when passengers were moving around and when AC was running on anciliary power . In other words , AC on modern aircraft is doing a good job of filtering the air . Coincidentially , there has been a case study reporting rapid spread of the flu when the AC was out of order ( see the above-linked pdf ) . In sum : Wash your hands frequently , do n't exchange bodily fluid with passengers , and you should do fine , as long as the ventilation system is running . Stress is a risk factor associated with many physical and mental health related problems . There are indeed stress symptoms , such as fatigue , headache , concentration difficulties , or gastrointestinal problems reported in <URL> , though they do not compare stress level/symptoms to the general population . Anyway , not surprisingly , stress levels are lower the higher up on the ladder you are in the hierarchy . Also , the social network helps a lot to mitigate effects of stress . In sum : be the boss , and relax with friends and family , and you 'll do fine . Noise could also be a problem - it is loud on the airplane due to the engine noise . <URL> , on probably the same Swedish airline as above , reports no ill effects of noise exposure , however . Overall , it appears that even chronic air travel leads to little long-term damage . Have a good flight ! If you want to keep up-to-date on research done in the US regarding health risks for flight crews , you can check out <URL> .
In short , Putin 's wrong , or at least oversimplifying drastically . Airport transit areas are exempted from immigration regulations , but they are very much the country 's property , under its authority and jurisdiction . As a simple example , if you 're transiting via an airport and are caught carrying contraband there , you 'll be punished under the transit country 's legislation , as <URL> have found out . All that said , Snowden 's definitely a legal edge case . For example , you can only deport someone who has entered the country ( legally or illegally ) , which Snowden has not . Russia could easily extradite Snowden if they wanted to , since Snowden is now subject to Russian jurisdiction and espionage is a crime in both Russia and the US , but Russia and the US do not have an extradition agreement and , more to the point , Russia has no interest in doing so . Russia could always kick him out under some legal pretense ( loitering ? vagrancy ? ) , but they 'd have to find somebody to take him and issue him travel documents first ! As an ordinary traveller , though , I would n't lose too much sleep over this . It 's very unusual to end up in this position , since the vast majority of people not accepted by their final destination are either refused boarding by the airline at the origin , or deported back to where they came from once they have tried to enter the country . It takes an extraordinary run of bad luck , like <URL> , to end up a refugee in the transit area .
No policeman is going to arrest you for riding in a park . I 'd be surprised if you ca n't ride in all the parks in Glasgow ( or almost any other city in the UK ) for that matter . Give pedestrians the right of way and be considerate and you 'll be fine .
If your phone is Android , you can download <URL> or <URL> for free which allows offline navigation based on the maps from the <URL> project . Be sure to download the maps ( also for free ) via Wlan before you need them .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
<URL> : 6:00 to 23:50 ( time of departure from each terminus , arrival 15 -- 20 minutes later at the end station , if I understand the automatic translation from Turkish correctly ) <URL> : 6:00 to 23:40 ( time of departure from each terminus , with an extra train from Kızılay 0:20 to Ostim 0:40 )
It really depends on where you hire the porter , your bargain skills and what kind of porter you want . A price between $ 10-20 is probably ok , but remember that if you do this using an agency the porter will get very little himself ( maybe $ 4-8 a day ) because all the profit goes to the middlemen . Therefore , please bargain hard with the agency and rather give the porter the extra $ directly to him . It 's a shame that porters can walk with your luggage for weeks in the mountains only getting paid a few dollars . I also recommend reading this story : <URL>
You should definitely try <URL> , as pointed out by mts in the comments . It is much used in the Vallée du Rhône , I 'm sure you will find a friendly driver . If you do n't find your route directly on the website , try broadening the start/finish of your trip by looking on a map . I used blablacar a lot as a driver , unfortunately not in this area . Also , if you do these trips regurlarly , there might be some subscriptions with the SNCF that could lower the price per journey .
Ships are registered under foreign flags for a variety of reasons . labour laws . Many countries where shipping firms are at home have laws that make hiring staff much more expensive than would be the case in say Liberia . Work conditions , salaries , etc. would make them uncompetitive . appearances . A Taiwanese firm wishing to do business with mainland China would want to do so through a front company in a third country . In fact for a long time ( maybe still ) it was illegal for companies doing business in Taiwan to do business in mainland China by PRC law . This caused many airlines to create subsidiaries to handle traffic to one or the other to circumvent this . as you fear , an easy way to get out from under safety and environmental regulations . But that 's probably a minor reason as many nations enforce those on any vessel docking in their ports ( or even transiting their waters ) , not just on ships registered there .
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
I 've been told by friends who have worked with cruise lines that you can always just try calling on the day , or the night before , and can often get an astonishing deal . ( It does n't always work , though . )
Actually it seems that the ticket distribution moved to Members of Congress only to combat <URL> going back to Clinton era . And then under George W. Bush under the claim that <URL> : '' The White House welcomes large numbers of visitors , consistent with previous administrations , '' said the White House spokesman , Ari Fleischer . '' The tours are free . We discourage the practice of having vendors or outside groups make a profit by charging unsuspecting tourists , including any tour that would charge money for access to the White House even as part of a larger tour . '' The unguided tours were still allowed on a first come first served basis by waiting in line : They recommend that visitors get their feet in the front door by standing in line at the White House Visitors ' Center ( the line sometimes starts before 5 a.m. ) or by contacting their representatives in Congress , who receive tickets for guided tours for their constituents . ( The public tours are unguided . ) You can take a look at <URL> which has a lot of good references on the changes to tours over the years but ticket distribution went completely to Members of Congress in 2003 as an additional " security " measure following the 9/11 attacks .
Your question has both legal , but perhaps more important , also moral aspects . Generally speaking , when airborne , an aircraft is subject to the legislation of the carrier 's home country . So far so good . I am not sure if medical doctors according to US law is both legally required to help in an emergency and liable to damages they inflict even if practicing in good faith , but if it is so , the doctor you are talking about is indeed relieved from these legal obligations when flying with a foreign carrier . The legal regulations defining liabilities , but also the duty to help are however very different from country to country . E.g. German criminal code contains " non-assistance of a person in danger " ( unterlassene Hilfeleistung ) as an offense and obligates even lay-men to help in case of an accident or medical emergency . Failure to do so is punishable with a fine or even up to one year imprisonment . I am also not aware of any country actually forbidding medical doctors or lay-men to provide assistance in case of emergencies . Members of " Médecins Sans Frontières " are regularly both assisting and practicing medicine in countries , in which they are in most cases probably not legally approved to work as doctors . Even without any legal regulations , medical doctors at least ought ( IMHO ) to feel morally obligated to follow the Hippocratic oath and help wherever possible .
end question
start question
Can an Indian national in F1 and B1/B2 visa travel to Mexico ?
The Mexican consulate in San Francisco says that you do not need a visa as long as you have valid and unexpired USA visa ( or permanent residence ) . Other nationalities , Non-US Permanent Residents . Starting May 1st , 2010 , all those foreign nationals , regardless of their nationality , visiting Mexico for tourist , business or transit matters wo n't need a Mexican visa as long as they have with them a valid and not expired USA visa in the passport . In this context , if you have a valid US visa in the passport you do not need to obtain a Mexican visa . The website is <URL> . Similar , but more clearly stated information is available on the Consulate of Mexico in India <URL> which says : : : NOTICE FOR HOLDERS OF USA VISA : : Holders of any valid visa for the United States of America ( any nationality ) DO NOT require visa to enter Mexico on tourist , business and transit purposes only .
It can differ from country to country , and also depends on what visa you 're applying for , and going into every country would be a book in itself , so I 'll try and provide a general answer . In general , countries that share information could share visa rejections . So travelling to country B , you may be flagged and asked questions about it . Often , you have to sign a form indicating whether or not you were ever rejected for a visa to ANYWHERE , on any passport , current or present . The result of that may affect your application . For example , the US states that <URL> . I 've had stamps for ' visa cancelled without prejudice ' but that 's different to being denied , it was simply to reissue a new visa . Again , they put a stamp in the passport . As for a stamp in the passport for denials , yes , they will sometimes <URL> .
I presume you are an Indian national . According to the <URL> in a <URL> , you can use an Income certificate or bank statement : 1 . Eligibility for Applicant Nationals of India with ordinary MRP ( Machine Readable Passport ) / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , who wishes to apply for a Multiple Visa for a stay of up to 30 days and are applicable to one of the following categories : ( 1 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan in the last three years and who has ability to pay the travel expense ( 2 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan and travel records as temporary visitor to G7 countries ( except Japan ) in the last three years ( 3 ) Individual with sufficient financial capacity ( 4 ) Spouse or children of the individuals who are mentioned ( 3 ) above 2 . Necessary Documents to Submit ... ( 3 ) Applicant with sufficient financial capacity ( as mentioned 1 ( 3 ) above ) a. Application form ( with Photo ) b. Passport ( MRP / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO standard only ) c. Documents to prove the sufficient financial ability such as income certificate , bank statement , or income tax return ( and some additional documents which certify incomes such as stock dividend , pension , retirement allowance , inheritance , lease agreement , real estate register , deed of property etc. ) d. Applicant 's Certificate of employment e . A letter of explanation stating the reason of applying for the multiple visa ( f. if applying from outside of India ) documents to prove that the applicant legally resides in that country If you go through the entire document , you should have all that you need to submit an application for a visa . Good luck .
The decision whether and for how long is made <URL> : At the port-of-entry , a U.S. immigration officer of the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) decides whether to allow you to enter and how long you can stay for any particular visit , as part of the Admission process . Only the U.S. immigration officer has the authority to permit you to enter the United States . Six months is the normal maximum but this may be extended <URL> . Leaving USA terminates the validity of the visa , where that is single entry , or utilises one of the allowed entries where multiple entry . Returning from the EU ( after Christmas ) is a further entry , the duration of which is again up to the immigration officer -- and might be six months .
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
The main difference between Tatkal and Premium Tatkal is that Premium Tatkal is an Online Only service . According to <URL> Passengers can book premium Tatkal tickets online only on the pattern of airline fares - more the demand , higher the fare . According to a Railway Board official , premium Tatkal tickets are dynamically priced like air fares . The minimum premium fare is the basic train fare plus Tatkal charges , which vary from 10 % to 30 % depending on the class of travel , he said , adding the maximum limit for booking premium Tatkal ticket is 30 % of the base fare or Rs400 , whichever is higher .
Actually there 's a third , rarer option . But it 's the option I 'm on currently . If your trip is going to be longer than 30 days , you ca n't use a tourist visa - as that 's the maximum length , and you ca n't extend it . You can , however , apply for a business visa and are perfectly entitled to say it 's for tourism . I got a letter of support from my company ( despite it saying I 'm just going as a tourist ) and worked with visatorussia.com to make sure I had all the details , and voila , a 3 month double-entry Russian Business Visa ! It did cause the border guy a bit of confusion , but a quick phone call and he was quite happy with it . Again , you need a letter of invite ( visatorussia can help with that ) , and you specify a rough itinerary ( I just said the 5 major cities I hope to visit ) but these do not go on your visa , nor are you required to stick to it . However , as mentioned - if you 're in any place for more than a few days you are required to register with your hotel or place of abode . Again , visatorussia will help explain all of that . Good luck !
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
Having a visa for India does not allow you access to Nepal and conversely having a visa for Nepal does not allow you access to India . Nepal and India are two separate countries . The fact that they offer each others citizens visa free entry does not waive the rules for other nationalities . To visit Nepal , you will need to meet Nepal 's entry requirements for your nationality .
A B1/B2 visa is good to transit through US airports . I have asked an immigration officer in Dulles airport .
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
Simple rule , if the employer 's name was annotated in the visa page , then you should apply for another visa . If the employer 's name was not annotated there , then you can use the same visa , just make sure to bring what proves your business . In general , the visa is issued to the person himself to conduct certain businesses ( short training , meetings , negotiating contracts , etc ) . So even if you go to the US while with your current employer , you should present some documents for whatever business you are conducting there . In addition to that , nothing is mentioned in the <URL> about changing the employer . P.S. I had first hand experience since I am a B1/B2 visa holder . UPDATE Here is a copy ( after modification to hide some important info ) of my old annotated visa , my company 's name and my job was clearly mentioned . This is the new visa , it has no annotation whatsoever , and I used it to enter US to attend a seminar , I had to show the invitation letter at the airport anyway :
Ireland is part of <URL> that comprises the islands of Ireland , Great Britain , the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands , but <URL> : Unlike the Schengen Agreement , the Common Travel Area provides no mechanism for the mutual recognition of leave to enter and remain , and the United Kingdom and Ireland operate entirely separate visa systems with distinct entry requirements . In general , a United Kingdom visa will not allow a traveller entry to Ireland , nor vice-versa . Since your visa is single entry I would recommend you to stay in Ireland if you can not obtain multiple entry visa .
You can catch the <URL> ( no relation ) every 15-30 minutes all day from Manhattan to Manorville , then a taxi back to Brookhaven National Laboratory . The taxi fare may be quite a bit cheaper this way than from Ronkonkoma as the distance is shorter . It may also be faster , depending on time of day , since the bus has only one stop between Manhattan and Manorville . The bus picks up at 40th and Lexington , so you 'll have to go crosstown several blocks from Port Authority ; either take the 7/7X from Times Square/42nd St to Grand Central Terminal , or walk it .
You will need to file separate DS-160 applications for your spouse , but the web site will make this a little easier for you . Once you complete your application , on the " Thank You " page there will be an option to create another application for your family member . When you choose this , it will automatically import some of the information from your form onto the next form , and so it will take less time to complete the second application . A further explanation is in the <URL> : When you select " Email Confirmation " on your Confirmation Page , you will be directed to a " Thank You " page . On the " Thank You " page you will see an option to create a family or group application . When you select this option , certain information from your application , such as destination , will automatically be imported to and displayed on a new application . Please note that if you use this option you must create an individual application for each family member or for each individual within the group . If one of the dependents has a different surname or nationality , for example , you can alter that data before submitting the application .
Kosovo : Based on the list <URL> from the Kosovo Ministry of Foreign Affairs , you do indeed need a visa as an Indian citizen . Based on <URL> , it seems you can arrange to mail your passport to one of the visa issuing locations . Based on the <URL> page , there is no requirement to show up in person to submit the visa request . Further , one of those locations is in Istanbul . Additionally , based on the QA website linked , and the <URL> section of the Kosovo MOFA , it seems holders of multi-entry Schengen visas do not need a special visa to enter Kosovo . However , it is unclear from the documentation if that visa is valid for the full 90 days , or for only 15 days ( <URL> ) . If you take a look at a map of Kosovo , you will see that it only borders Serbia to the North . While not recognized by Serbia , Kosovo is recognized by over 100 nations and has permanent membership in several major global institutions . I suggest <URL> . However , if you plan to stay away from the northern part of Kosovo , there seems to be no reason why you would need a Serbian visa . The information in that post is echoed/backed-up by <URL> . Further , <URL> that Serbian border guards might deny entry into Serbia if they see a stamp from Kosovo . Turkey : For transiting , as long as you do not leave the airport terminal , you should not have any need for a Turkish visa . This is common practice is most countries . Also , see <URL> . Based on <URL> , if you wish to visit Turkey as an Indian citizen you do indeed need a visa . Much like Kosovo , there is a special provision that will fast-track you for an e-Visa if you already have a Schengen visa .
You should not have any troubles travelling directly to USA from Sweden . At most , you 'd get questions at the airport in Sweden when checking in , and you 'd have to explain ( or prove ) your current status in Sweden . The US authorities wo n't care much where are you flying from , as long as you hold a valid visa . I myself travelled on a B1/B2 visa from Sweden one month ago , and I 'm not a Swedish citizen either . There were n't any problems at all . However , I 'd bring copies of documents certifying your status in the country ( for example , letter from Migrationsverket , letter from Skatteverket with your personal number , and/or a valid Swedish ID document ) . I did n't have any of those with me , though I managed to get by only by showing a credit card issued by a Swedish bank and speaking in Swedish , but your mileage may vary -- in retrospect , I definitely should have brought supporting documents .
If you are an Indian passport holder then you do need to apply for a transit visa . You can <URL> and hand them in at an Australian Visa Office in your country .
To get a visa on arrival , you need to apply online for a pre-approval first . There are many agencies ( I used visa-vietnam . org several times ) , and they work fine , as long as you apply online several working days in advance . After a few days , they 'll send you a visa approval document which you need to bring to board the plane . Note that you can only use visa-on-arrival if arriving by air ( not if crossing the ground border from Cambodia/Laos/China ) . Vietnamese embassy officials in Bangkok are rude and corrupt . When I went there , they insisted on higher-than-posted visa fees . It also involves 2 trips to the embassy unless you opt for an expensive express service option .
end question
start question
Do I need to have travel insurance when crossing Schengen border ?
Technically yes , the terms under which a Schengen visa is issued require you to have health insurance up to a certain amount of coverage . You may be asked for proof of this in the form of health insurance documents when you 're entering the Schengen zone and/or at any passport control checks . In practice though , it is unlikely that you will be asked to provide documentation for this . However , travel health insurance is still a good thing to have as hospitalisation costs in case something does happen can be expensive . You do n't need to get an expensive policy ; at least in the UK , you can get short term travel health policies which cost less than # 10 . Even though these policies may have high deductibles , for serious accidents they will still help you recover medical expenses .
Travel Insurance is not a commodity , and can vary widely between companies . You 'll usually be offered insurance at the same time as booking a holiday , but can arrange separately - here 's what you need to check out ; Is Your Destination Covered ? It sounds obvious , but policies vary and if you do n't know what you 're looking for , they can be confusing . Some providers , for example , will include countries such as Turkey and Egypt under European cover , while others wo n't . Worldwide cover , meanwhile , does n't always include the USA , Canada and the Caribbean -- so ensure your policy does if you 're heading out that way . Also , check the insurance will cover you for the duration of your whole stay When selecting which travel insurance policy to go for , it 's important to check how many consecutive days abroad you 'll be covered for . Limits vary depending on the provider , and if you go over this limit , even if it 's only by a day , you will invalidate your insurance . Check for limits After all , the last thing you want is to make a claim on your travel insurance only to find you 're not covered for what you had lost . Work out exactly what you 're bringing with you to ensure you have the correct amount of cover -- we recommend that you have at least the following . # 1,500 baggage cover # 250 to cover lost cash # 3,000 cancellation cover -- or enough to cover the total cost of your holiday <URL> Other things to bear in mind include ; When can I actually claim and how ? Check the documents carefully , do n't get caught out . Is your medical condition covered under a policy ? Also . do n't lie about medical conditions - this will void the policy . ALWAYS READ THE SMALLPRINT !!! Thus could contain the most important information for you . Again , do n't get caught out . The most important part has to be about Claiming . Make sure you are certain that you have enough amount of cover and know how to claim if necessary . The process is n't particularly difficult , as long as you do n't fall in any traps .
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
For EU citizens <URL> but you have to make several distinctions here . The fact that the police can and does check ID does not mean it 's mandatory for everybody to have one on them . Conversely , the fact that there should be no systematic check at the border does not mean that it can not be mandatory to carry ID ( it 's the case in the Netherlands for example and yet actual checks seem rare in my experience ) . Rules can also be different for locals , EU citizens and third-country nationals . For example , regarding the first incident , French citizens are not even required to hold a national ID card at all but it 's still perfectly legal for the police to do ID checks under certain conditions , even far away from the border ( <URL> or on <URL> ) . I think that even for third-country nationals ( and certainly for French citizens ) , not having any means to prove your identity on you is not per se a punishable offense . The police might keep you for a few hours to ascertain who you are by other means or be generally unpleasant but you can not be charged with anything just because you left your passport at home . Furthermore it should be pointed out that racial profiling has long been a problem in France . I have no way to independently assess how widespread it really is but I heard many anecdotes and some organizations regularly complain about it . There are even a few official reports that acknowledged the problem and , back when he was still running for office , the current president promised a number of specific measures to deal with it . <URL> but this gives you some idea of the context . Now , under the Schengen agreement , France committed herself not to perform systematic checks at her borders . But anything else still depends on national law . For example , being part of the Schengen area does not mean that nobody can ever be asked for ID on French territory . Nor does it provide you with any practical recourse if you are victim of racial profiling or if you suspect French police is bending the rules . If France really is in breach of the Schengen agreement , this is something other EU member states and especially the EU Commission might deal with in several ways ( potentially escalating to an infringement procedure in front of the EU court of justice ) but that does not immediately help you in practice . In fact , French law even specifically allows the police to ask people for ID at all times in border areas , on international trains and <URL> . In 2011 , the Commission looked at what France was doing and <URL> but did not go further or challenge the law itself . <URL> has been writing extensively about checks at the France-Italy border and elsewhere so it seems to be a relatively common occurrence . All this also means that there are no EU or Schengen-wide rule that would definitively answer your question . It 's certainly not mandatory to always carry ID everywhere but since police checks do happen , carrying your passport seems like a good idea in practice , especially as a non-EU citizen .
It depends . If your ticket comes with a seat reservation ( <URL> ) then you do not need to stamp your ticket : just board the train . Shorter range tickets with no seat reservation , on the other hand , must be stamped . Your ticket probably reads <URL> somewhere at the top . Trenitalia personnel typically does n't cut tourists much slack and if " busted " you will be forced to buy a ticket on board with a surcharge . I 've seen plenty of tourists fall for this on the Milan-Bergamo line and it saddens me . If this happens , keep in mind that you 're not being fined . The ticket you bought is still valid ; you 're just buying a new one . You can use that ticket for your return trip ( just make sure you do stamp it next time ! ) Also , try and be honest and avoid getting into arguments . Ticket checkers have no qualms with waking people up and locking yourself up in the bathroom does not really work ( it 's no excuse for not slipping the ticket below the door ) . They can also actually fine you for quite a lot more money than just buying a new ticket with the surcharge ( although I 've never witnessed things degenerate to this level ) , followed by forcing you to step off the train wherever it stops next . Yeah , not fun . When in doubt , stamp the ticket . If it 's a paper ticket , use <URL> typically found at the station entrance ( by ticket sales ) or at the lower end of the stairways up to the tracks . If it 's a magnetic ticket ( ? ) then use the blue machines instead . If all the stamping machines should be broken , or if you just did n't have the time to stamp your ticket , or if you are iffy about the quality of the stamping ( maybe it did n't print very well ? ) what Trenitalia and Trenord personnel have told me to do is to board the train at the head and tell the ticket collector when ( if ) he comes . He should sign off the ticket with no surcharge . I do n't know if this is something official or just an informal convention , but I know it 's worked for me in the past .
I have twice successfully claimed for items that I did not have any proof of purchase at all , so you should be ok with any sort of evidence that you purchased the item . Once was for an MP3 player ( $ 200 ) . The other time was for a phone ( $ 400 ) , but I had a letter from the service provider saying that I had reported it stolen and that it was blocked . I think it really just depends on a case by case basis . Obviously , the more expensive the item , or the less believable that you would be travelling with it , the more evidence they may look for . Ever since I had something stolen abroad I now just lay out my travel belongings before I pack them and take a picture of the whole lot . For electronics I take note of serial numbers as well . At least this way I 'll always have at least some record that I owned and was travelling with the item .
When you check in at DEL , you should ask that the bag be checked all the way through to MEM , even though yes , you will still need to claim it and re-check it at ORD . Passengers on all international flights to the U.S. are processed upon arrival at their first airport in the U.S. ( including transit passengers ; the U.S. <URL> ) . In your case , after you land at Chicago , you will disembark the aircraft and proceed directly to immigration and customs screening . You will claim your bag before going through the latter . If the bag is tagged for MEM , you fortunately do not need to go all the way out to the front counter to check them in again . There will be a station for bag re-check past the customs screening area ; you would simply have it scanned there .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
<URL> If you are flying out of Lima internationally , the airport tax is US$ 31 , US$ 7.40 for domestic flights . As of January 2011 this tax has been rolled into the purchase price of the tickets at this airport . Ensure you receive a sticker on the back of each ticket from the check-in counter to attest to this at the security checkpoint .
I 've had a malfunctioning barcode passport ( those pre-biometric hologrammed ones ) for 10 years . Basically ever since I first got the passport I was unable to successfully scan it anywhere I went . During that timespan I travelled many countries , including and not limited to the US , India and Australia , and it never worked . What happens in case the automatic scan does n't work is that the customs officer tries scanning it again and when that fails too they enter the passport number manually in the system . That 's it . I would say you have nothing to worry about . Unless there are valid reasons for not letting you in the country you should be fine . In case you just want to know if the RFID works you can try reading it using a dedicated reader ( or a compatible mobile phone ) . <URL> but at least you 'll know if the chip responds .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
Unless you have n't paid the fine and now have a warrant outstanding I would n't worry about it . Traffic offenses are only a concern if you have committed something serious like a vehicular manslaughter or if you basically ignored the summons or mandatory court appearance and now have a warrant issued for your arrest . <URL> but also provides you with the link to the definitinon of crimes for which your <URL> . The list is too big to copy here but the only thing that involves vehicles is in fact manslaughter : Involuntary , where the statute requires proof of recklessness , which is defined as the awareness and conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustified risk which constitutes a gross deviation from the standard that a reasonable person would observe in the situation . A conviction for the statutory offense of vehicular homicide or other involuntary manslaughter that only requires a showing of negligence will not involve moral turpitude even if it appears the defendant in fact acted recklessly
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
Although I agree 35L can be enough if you only intend to carry two changes of clothes and some small gear , I 'm not sure you 'll be comfortable enough having most of your things hanging outside your backpack ( and this will be the case for at least your tent , your sleeping mat - either on top or bottom of your bag - , and maybe your stove and tins . Even your shoes , if it 's summer ) . You can put your camera , your first aid kit ( bring one ! ) and your clothes inside . You 'll still be fine with a 35L , but if you are also bringing food and water you might consider a 50L . It really depends on what sort of trip you are planning , what places you want to visit and what 's available around those . You 'll still have to carry whatever you chose to bring , but backpacks do n't have much weight by themselves so a bigger one is not that costly .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
In short the answer is yes you do need a separate visa for Belarus . Your Russian Student Visa does n't allow you to enter Belarus . The reason that it has the names of both countries is because the form they use is exactly the same . From the <URL> : Although Russia and Belarus use the same migration card , travelers should be aware that each country maintains its own visa regime . U.S. citizens wishing to travel to both nations must apply for two separate visas . A traveler entering Russia directly from Belarus is not required to obtain a new migration card , but at his or her option may do so if blank ones are available at the time of entry .
Yes you will have to pay duty , as it is a new item that was purchased overseas . If you were at home , lost it and bought a new replacement , you will have paid Australian duty on that item , as the importer paid duty when it originally came from the factory ( and of course included the cost of that duty in the selling price you paid ) . In this case , if you buy it overseas Australia still wants its import duty . They do n't really care why you bought it again , only that duty is paid on products imported into the country . Your real question at this point ( and one likely only the insurance agency can answer ) is will your travel insurance provider pay both the replacement amount AND the subsequent duty you have to pay upon returning home , since they are both part of the " replacing the item " cost
To clarify things beforehand , liability insurance is not generally needed for bicycling in Lithuania ( to the best of my knowledge ) , but to use the services of Cyclocity Vilnius . <URL> Your responsibility [ ... ] Make sure you have third party liability insurance , which is mandatory in order to use the service . Liability insurance is generally very good to have so my first recommendation would be for you to get one in your home country or country of residence ( you indicate Belarus ) and make sure that the terms &amp; conditions also cover your travel to Vilnius . Otherwise you could try to purchase a liability insurance just for travel . You will likely still be better off with offers from Belarus but you could also try with international providers . The first hit googling for " liability insurance for travel " gives me this ( apparently American , but targeting internationally ) <URL> ( no affiliation ) , I am sure there are many more upon a more thorough search . Alternatively , I found two other providers of bike rental in Vilnius ( they also offer bike tours ) : <URL> <URL> They do not mention need of a liability insurance but be aware that the system is different from Cyclocity ( which is similar to Velib in Paris , i.e. you can drop and take bikes at/from several stations in town ) and you rent a bike e.g. for the day . Finally - though this is not recommended and only my assumption - I do not believe that Cyclocity checks that you do have liability insurance . I would not know how to prove mine , I do not carry around my contract when traveling . And if you do get in trouble , you are in double trouble .
The process of transferring from an international flight into the US to a domestic flight is largely the same , regardless of which US airport you go through . The first thing you 'll do is go through immigration . Last time I was in Dulles I had to stand in line for this for about 40 minutes . If your visa is in order , the actual process only takes a minute or two . If there is an issue with it , this can take quite some time . Twice I 've been sent to ' the office ' for follow up questions . It has never taken more than a half hour though . Once you clear immigration , you pick up your luggage . Typically , your luggage will be on the baggage carousel by the time you clear immigration . You will always need to claim your luggage at this point . Even if it was checked through to your final destination . You then proceed through customs with your luggage ( this is why you need to claim it , since you go through customs here , not at your final destination ) . If your luggage was checked through to your final destination , there is usually a baggage re-check soon after you clear customs . They are intended for travelers such as yourself so you do n't have to haul the luggage to your airline 's check-in counter and baggage drop area which is possibly in another terminal ( although in your case , you wont need to change terminals ) . If your luggage is not checked through to your final destination , proceed to your airline 's check-in counters . You can also do this even if your luggage was checked through and you missed the baggage re-check . You may also need to claim your boarding pass from your airline 's check-in counters . Once you 've dropped off your luggage and you have your boarding pass , proceed to your gate , passing through security . When you clear customs , you will be on the ground floor , check-in counters are two floors up . See <URL> for more details . If you already have your boarding pass and use the baggage re-check , then you can proceed through security immediately , follow signs " TO ALL GATES " . See also this page on <URL> . Overall , this process will take at least 1 hour , more likely 1,5 hours . 3.5 hours should be plenty unless there is an issue with your visa .
A few reasons : a final sanity check that you did n't walk down the wrong corridor . Some gates have two ' legs ' . Or you could have snuck on or something . On larger planes , to see what aisle you should walk down . Otherwise people will randomly choose one and spend time climbing over seats and getting in the way . They 're on a time schedule , and want you boarded as fast as possible . To greet you - if you 're a club member or similar . Some may have extra ' cues ' on that they need to be aware of - you might require assistance . In addition to which aisle , which direction - sometimes you board behind 1st class , so they need to direct you that way . But yeah , it 's annoying ;)
end question
start question
What 's the best time to see the monster of Loch Ness ?
Right , despite missing out on the first day of my tour there while my train broke down , the rest of the gang went and unfortunately for me , I missed out on an opportunity to see Nessie . One day though , one day ... Firstly , you need to be aware of the geography . Loch Ness is in a natural cleft between Fort William and Inverness in the Scottish Highlands , and is 23 miles long . It 's also nearly a mile wide in places , and is VERY deep ( up to 226m ) . Statistically , this poses a problem for someone hoping to see Nessie , even if she does surface . Next , consider the weather . Edinburgh , further south , has 186 days of rain a year . That 's HALF the year . And it 's considered the SUNNY side of Scotland . Wind , rain , mist and snow are a feature of the Scottish highlands ( it rained every day but one of my tour , but it was still amazing ) , but do n't help with visibility . Next , the location north . Scotland is pretty far north . In winter , like now , by the end of November the sun has already set by 4pm . This does n't give you much daylight time to go Nessie hunting . Statistically this means from June to August you 're probably going to have the best shot , with weather and sunlight matching this . Of course this is when more tourists are there , and naturally this aligns with <URL> . Most sightings have been early morning or early evening . This could be argued that it 's because low light plays tricks on the eyes , especially with mist hanging around , but if she 's reptilian or amphibian , they often try to avoid moving lots in the heat of the day anyway , so avoid searching around lunchtime . There are boat tours on the water as well , so I 'd consider that your best chance in summer , get out on the Loch and be close to Nessie . The castle in the north east also offers dramatic views and has had some sightings . Good luck ! We expect pictures ;)
You can also catch a glimpse of North Korea on the Jayu-ro highway , for instance around <URL> . Nothing very interesting though , just some hills across the sea . The tour I took to DMZ ( you ca n't get there without a tour ) took us via that road , because it 's one of the easiest places to see North Korea close to Seoul . According to our tour guide , you notice that all trees are chopped down , hence it must be North Korea .
You 're traveling during high season so everything is going to be packed . I would still suggest going to Koh Tao still though . They have 2-3 of the top 5 OW schools in the world ( By # of students ) . You 'll have the best dive sites and the cheapest certification ( ~ 9000 baht ) . I did mine through Big Blue in Koh Tao . Also , I 'd always be interested in where you 're going to be diving . Your first two dives it does n't matter but the 2nd two you do you will actually start to appreciate the site . The flights are always expensive to Samui because Bangkok Airways or Thai ( Forget which ) owns the airport so they control the rates hence why everyone else flys and then shuttles you via Lomprayah . If times a real issue I 'd suggest flying to Bangkok then catching the overnight bus / ferry to Koh Tao . It is n't a 4 hour flight but if you flew into Bangkok at like 5-6 pm you 'd be to Koh Tao by the next morning . <URL> There 's a few other places in Thailand that are populer for diving but they are n't easy to get to or fast . If you 're going to spend the same amount of time trying to get to Similan or somewhere , I think you 're better off going to Tao .
Obviously " best " is always subjective and depends on the particular person , but ... Having done 1-day stopover trips in Hong Kong a few times over the past few years ( including a 22 hour stopover there 2 weeks ago ! ) , my vote would be for the area on one side or other of Victoria Harbour - either the Kowloon/Nathan road area on the north side , or Causeway Bay/Connaught Road area on the south . Both of these areas have excellent access to the Airport via either the Airport train ( quicker and more predictable , but a little more expensive at HK$ 100 each way ) or via bus . Both have access to the harbour , including various tourist favorites like the Star Ferry , The Peak Tram , shopping on Nathan Road , the Temple Street Night Market , etc. . Public transport in Hong Kong is very easy to use , and regardless of which side of the harbour you end up on getting between the two sides is easy . Taxi 's are also relatively cheap - a trip up to a few kilometres will cost you only HK$ 20 ( about USD$ 2.50 ) so even if your hotel is n't right next to the train stations it 's easy to get around . There are obviously countless other areas of Hong Kong you could visit , but unless you 've been there before and already seen the sites around the harbour area then I would n't suggest going anywhere else - especially given your limited time on the ground . If there 's a negative about this area ( and all of HK to some extent ) it 's that hotels can be relatively expensive . There are cheap options available , but make sure you read up on the reviews on sites like TripAdvisor as some of them can be fairly poor quality . Unless you 're staying in a 4 + star hotel you can expect to get a small room little larger than a bed , most likely without a window - but for such a short trip that should be all you need !
There are multiple purposes for scanning the passport : They confirm the legitimacy of the document . It pulls up your record in their internal/system databases . It pulls up your immigration history . It pulls up your information from other related government organizations ( for example , the State department - which issues the visas ) Keeping in mind that INS is a federal agency ; it is reasonable to believe they have information on people that is available at the federal level - for example , a federal warrant . As far as seeing things in other countries ; to an extent they demand this information because all people traveling to the US are subject to delivery of their API ( Advanced Passenger Information ) which includes information about your itinerary , port of embark/disembark ; travel documents ; travel reservation information and possibly payment method ( s ) . So already they have a large treasure of your information . As far as sharing information - the most common source of shared information on non-citizens is Interpol ( the International Police ) which is what some governments ( and private organizations ) can use . Interpol does issue arrest warrants which are ( supposed ) to be honored by all those states that are bound to the Interpol agreement . This is one source of shared information . Of course beyond this , countries with close diplomatic relations or other intelligence agreements do share information . The US is party to such agreements such as the <URL> ( which covers the UK , Canada , New Zealand , Australia ) and involves sharing of information and intelligence . Such information is used ( among other areas ) for screening passengers to identify high-risk or otherwise flagged persons . However , unless explicitly shared - this information is not visible beyond the normal purview of the agency that holds the information . For example , your speeding ticket in the US is not available to the border control in the UK ( and vice versa ) .
Go for <URL> . Tried to buy ticket from ManUtd website and it redirects to <URL> This website allows you to view the seat location and if there is no available seats , it can notify you if there is more seat available . Note that you should arrive early in the stadium since usually they separate the tribune for the home and visiting team .
Stealing shamelessly from mouviciel 's comment ( and memory ) , the correct answer is Pontorson , which is about 9 km from the Mount -- a bit of a hike on foot , but quite doable if you rent a bike . Also , the article quoted in Nikita 's answer is shameless rip off from <URL> , which is particularly annoying since I wrote the original of that text . Time for a nastygram ! ( Edit : to the person who copied it , not you Nikita ! )
You could take a <URL> bus directly from <URL> for 39 $ ( or 35 $ for " Promotional Ticket - can not be changed or refunded ! " ) The trip takes 4 to 4 1/2 hours , and looks like there are 1-3 daily connections . I do n't know if this is the cheapest public transport option available ( probably not ) , but it 's much better than the ICE price , and quite convenient because it 's a direct connection .
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
* ( first of all , I only recommend this if you 're happy to quickly selectively skip around the top attractions in a museum before moving on to the next one . Each one of the 5 museums you 've mentioned is huge , with enough for two or more full days ' visits by someone very interested , and a full day each for someone moderately interested ) * If you really do n't mind skipping to see the best stuff and then heading on , after your very busy day in South Kensington as DJClayworth suggests , you could : <URL> early in the morning , selectively walk around the bits you 're most interested in Either walk ( 20 mins , not much to see ) or get a bus ( any bus ) down High Holborn to St Paul 's Take a quick look at St Paul 's Cathedral while you 're there , it 's pretty spectacular , but probably do n't go in today ... Continue with a short 10 minute walk south along the Millenium Bridge ( pedestrians-only , good views of the river ) ... ... which takes you right to the door of the Tate Modern . It also works going the other way , Tate first ; it 's a question of where you want to be in the evening . The British Museum and Tate Modern are n't as close to each other as the South Kensington museums , but they 're still pretty close and it 's rather nice that the route between them can go via St Paul 's and the Millenium Bridge without really adding any time .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
Dörtyol Ticaret Merkezi Misafirhanesi , which apparently means " trade centre guesthouse " had a room with shared bathroom available for 12 Azeri manat as of August last year . That 's about 11 euro or $ 15 USD currently . This comes from somebody calling themself <URL> on <URL> Apparently the cheapest option according to the author .
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
A number of people will tell you different things , but I 'll say Tuesday or Wednesday . Now , there are two parts to this question . Firstly , what day is the cheapest to fly , and then what day is the cheapest to buy . To fly , is generally during the week days , not Monday or Friday as people are coming back / going on trips - leisure or business . Morning/evening flights are more expensive , etc etc. . Now , the key part you 're asking is when do you buy . Firstly , <URL> , and I 've seen personally , that airline ticket prices will often rise on the weekend , then drop again on Monday . The theory being that more people shop for tickets on the weekend . Annoying , but there you go . Now , the best day ? It 's going to be Tuesday or Wednesday , depending on a few factors . <URL> that most airlines tend to release sales on Mondays , Tuesdays , and Wednesdays Tuesday <URL> says in his opinion , booking on Tuesday evenings is ideal . He notes that airlines tend to release fare sales on Tuesday mornings , and if other carriers match , they usually do so by the evening . Fare sales generally end on Fridays , and Morrey says , " In addition , when airlines raise fares , they tend to do this on a weekend , so Saturdays and Sundays [ are ] less attractive . " <URL> , states : The best day to shop for airfare is Tuesday . And let me get even more specific : shop on Tuesday at about 3 p.m. He 's so emphatic about this , that he has an <URL> . Wednesday <URL> : By late Monday , depending on how that new fare is doing in the marketplace , Airline C might jump into the battle and offer an even lower fare , so look for all the other airlines to rush to match that one -- usually by Tuesday -- and the war is on . Prices might go even lower on Wednesday . And that 's when you strike . Wait any longer than Wednesday , and you may be in trouble . The wars usually end by Thursday morning . Why ? Friday is just around the corner ! And the cycle starts all over again . <URL> : Log on to the airline 's website shortly after 12am ( in the airline 's time zone ) on Wednesday night . This is the best day and time of the week to book a flight because this is when most airlines purge their computerized systems of any airline reservations that were not booked . Conclusion So it depends a little on what you 're searching for . For upcoming weekend flights , you should probably consider booking on Wednesdays . For far-ahead ( not this weekend ) flights , the release times described on Tuesdays seems to be the way to go :)
<URL> is probably the cheapest , at 3.00 lira ( ~ $ 2 USD ) , but it takes very long ( ~ 1.5 h at times ) and is often packed . Havas bus is faster and costs 10 lira ( ~ $ 6.50 USD ) . If you plan to use public transport a lot , buy the Akbil pass ( saves a bit of money and you do n't need to dig for coins all the time ) . The trip is also possible via metro , but involves changing over twice ( Zeytinburnu to tram and a short walk at <URL> ) . This takes 3 tokens ( jetons ) , and costs 3 x 3 = 9 lira ( ~ 5 USD ) , in 2012 . ( <URL> )
Next to travel.se I am also a big fan of <URL> . The userinterface might not be up to current standards , but they seem quite complete in their listings . as expected they do list the <URL> Tickets seems to be available through <URL> , or purchase tickets to events <URL>
APIs information according to the US CBP are to be sent anytime between 72 hours before the flight to 30 minutes before closing the aircraft doors for departure . Just remember there are many passengers who fly last minute ( last minute as in last check-in time which is usually ~ 1 hour before the departure ) and their information is also required to be sent to APIs , that 's how they do it , they send the information in batches as they are available until 30 minutes before the flight not only for newly checked in passengers but also for passengers who changed their information at some point after the initial submission . In addition to the above , I have travelled to the US at least two times with no reservation and just by showing up at the check-in counter last minute . Source : <URL>
Wikipedia explains that <URL> , specifically on the islands of Faial , Terceira , São Miguel and Pico is the place to go for Whale Watching . <URL> backs this up , narrowing it to focus on Faial or Pico . This matches the various Azores tourism sites , so I 'd definitely target those two , and it sounds like if you like the outdoors , Pico would be the place to go for some hiking as well .
There is a great service provided by <URL> which is dead on accurate as far as the city is concerned . The problem with the time you 're landing and the time you will be going into the city is the fact that on a weekday this will be a rush hour , so here are the better options : JFK Take <URL> to the <URL> in Jamaica and Take E train Manhattan/Downtown direction , which under normal circumstances will take slightly more then an hour to get to 8th Ave 23rd Street LaGuardia Sorry no Airtrain available so it will be a <URL> transfer which could be a pain with luggage but it will drop you off right in between the 2 districts on 23rd and 6th if you take one of the orange lines <URL> or <URL> . F should be faster since it 's running express in Queens . Newark <URL> Option 1 - Bus to PATH . Take a bus from Airport to Newark Path Station and then take PATH to Newark changing at Journal Square Station for Path to 33rd street and take it to 23rd street station which is 23rd street and 6th Ave on the border of the districts . Option 2 - Train to Penn Station . Take Airtrain in Newark to the Newark Airport train station and then take Amtrak or NJ Transit to the New York Penn Station on 34th and 8th Ave , and then either walk a few blocks ( they are short ) or take <URL> Downtown direction for 1 stop to 23rd Street . Option 3 - Bus . <URL> provides a shuttle that runs every 15 minutes from each of the terminals and takes 30 - 60 minutes depending on traffic to get you to NY Port Authority Bus Terminal from which you can take <URL> or walk . Of course there are always taxis or airlink services such as : <URL> <URL> <URL> That you can simply board and they will drop you off where you need to go . Might be a little more expensive then Public Transportation but easy and more convenient . As you can see most trips will take about an hour .
end question
start question
How can a US citizen obtain a Russian tourist visa from Berlin ?
If you go to the website of the <URL> , you can find ( although a bit hidden ) a page where they state that the consular department started since 8 . January 2013 to process digital visa applications coming from <URL> . So if you go to that site you should be able to get your Visa Otherwise , there are agencies like <URL> and <URL> .
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
No if you remain at the airport , have at least 6 months of validity on passport and have proofs on onward flight . Source : <URL>
According to <URL> there is still visa required for Indian Citizens , though it will be less expensive then for the US citizens . As far as I can tell Visa On arrival is available <URL> with no further details an restrictions on countries have been made available : VISA AT ARRIVAL : THIS VISA IS FOR BUSINESS ONLY . THE APPLICATION AND FEES ARE DONE IN SURINAME There is a <URL> which one can purchase at <URL> but again it 's not available for Indian Citizens . So as you indicated in another one of your questions : more visas for you .
An Algerian national needs to apply for a visa in order to enter the UK , even if they have a French visa and even if they are taking the Eurostar . You will not be able to show the UKVI people your visa at the rail station , or even at the border . On the bright side , the application does n't take three months to process ; it 's more like a week . You can apply online at the <URL> . If you have a clean history and otherwise qualify , you will be able to access the various opportunities to upgrade your application to priority status . That will cost over and above the GBP 83 for the basic application fee . The downside is that since you are in France , you probably do not have all the requisite evidence to hand . It 's something to consider before applying . For your last question : no , the ' spur of the moment ' option is n't available to those travelling on an Algerian passport .
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
The official answer appears to be NO . I e-mailed the Brazilian Consulate in Houston , and this was their ( ambiguous ) response : Dear Sir/Madam , Tourist visa applications require the presentation of the itinerary . Please contact this office once you have certain plans . You do n't have to present a purchased plane ticket . A round trip reservation under your name will suffice . It seems clear to me this was a copy-and-paste answer , and was n't intended to address my actual question of whether an entry reservation/booking was actually necessary . But I suppose it 's probably safest to have my full itenerary planned before I apply .
My Japanese friend tried this week in Islamabad ( not near the border but better than nothing ) , at the Consulate General of the Islamic Republic of Iran . Conclusion : It is hard to get , but not impossible ! The first time she tried , she was turned down . The second time she tried even harder , and that worked ! She paid a Rs . 5000 visa fee .
After completing the travel without incident , I can confirm that Indian citizens with a valid non-tourist USA visa are indeed exempted from certain visa requirements to travel to Colombia . I faced no issue at the airport or immigration , as both airport staff and border agents were aware of the rule .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
Tickets get checked once in a while , usually by people with nondescript clothes waiting for passengers exiting the platforms or getting into the carriage and revealing themselves as ticket inspectors once the doors close and the train is on the move . Happened to me once or twice when working in Berlin and commuting by public transport for 6 + months a few years ago so I can vouch that it does happen but it does not seem that common either . It 's true that it 's a strategy ( random check and deterrence ) closer to what you typically find in middle-sized towns with only a bus network than to what you see in large cities like London or Paris . But then again , Berlin is no London . Also , all students in Berlin get a " Semesterticket " allowing unlimited travel on the Berlin transit network . It 's not free but included in their registration fee , which is a rather heavy-handed but very effective approach : A major group of potential fare evaders simply have no choice but to pay for a rail card , whether they want it or not , thus obviating the need to spend resources on enforcement , at least for that demographic . The machines you described are date/time validators for " open " tickets . You ' punch ' or ' validate ' the ticket ( it 's called entwerten in German ) when you first use it and it remains valid for two hours/one day/a few days after the date/time printed by the machine . Using this mechanism , you can therefore purchase several day tickets at once , and use them one-by-one whenever you want . If you look at a validated ticket , you will also notice the name of the station , which is especially useful for Kurzstrecken-tickets , which are valid for up to three stations on the U-Bahn or S-Bahn or to verify you have n't done a round-trip ( which is not allowed on a single-trip ticket ) . Do beware , day tickets need to be validated . Since you do n't have to use them on the day you bought them , they are n't valid if you do n't ' punch ' them with the machine when you do want to use them . If you are tourist and buy them from a counter , maybe the clerk would warn you about it but IIRC ticket machines always give you an " open ticket " ( except the machines placed in trams ) . The penalty if you are found without a valid ticket is a $ 40 fine ( soon to be increased to $ 60 ) .
I went to a traveling agency here in Indonesia , they said I would need an invitation from an Indonesian , a " sponsor " they call it ( someone that vouches for you ) . Although it seemed to be possible in 2010 . See this thread <URL> A week or so later ... After discussing further about my issue with a couple of expats living here . They told me that " whatever the law says you can always find an agency with ' special connections ' who will work it out " . Their advice was to simply go to a few agencies that are in bigger cities &amp; see if they can make it happen . So that 's what I did . And here is what I was proposed those agencies : the agency can provide a sponsor for me ( see above for explanations ) fee for a regular visa extension have a biometric picture taken by the immigration office . This happens 4 business days after applying for the visa once the biometric picture is taken , the waiting time is around 6 business days Depending on the visa extension agency , the total cost varies between 650 ' 000 IDR and 1 ' 275 ' 000 IDR . The " advertised " total waiting time also varies depending on the agency , some are probably better at doing this ( &amp; some are probably over optimistic in order to attract more customers ) , but 10 business days ( 2 weeks ) if there is not any public holidays seems to be common . My experience is : just give a call to lots of agencies , it 's the fastest &amp; most effective way to have a knowledge on your options . See resources for agencies below . An article confirming all this <URL> confirmed all the info provided by the agency &amp; added even further info/tips . To extend either a Tourist Visa or Social Visa , you must have an Indonesian citizen as a ' sponsor ' . That can be anyone -- guest house owner or staff , a friend or acquaintance . [ ... ] If you arrive in Indonesia with a Tourist Visa , you will arrive without a sponsor . ( since a sponsor is not required to get the visa ) After arrival you must find a sponsor in order to get an extension . You have some flexibility , if you 're going to extend several times , in that you can have a different sponsor each month . If you 're traveling around the country and applying at different immigration offices , you 'll need new sponsor each time -- a local . [ ... ] The sponsor usually has to be a resident of the particular immigration office 's jurisdiction . For example , if you 're in Lombok , you will apply for your extension at the Mataram Immigration Office . [ ... ] How to find a sponsor in a place you 've never been before ? Ask at your guest house or hotel . One of the staff or perhaps one of their friends will do it or they 'll know someone who speaks English , who 's done a sponsorship before and is willing to help you out . You 'll probably have to pay them to do so ! 100,000-250 ,000 rp is normal ( Actually , 100,000 rp is very very low . They 'd be doing you a huge favor at that rate ) . [ ... ] Regardless of which visa type you have , you have two methods to extend that visa once you 're in the country . Each visa extension , regardless of visa type , currently costs 250,000 rp / about $ 25-27 US per month . Hiring a Visa agency to do it for you - Give the money for your extension to the agency , along with their fees . Usually total cost is 450,000 -- 650,000 rp . That is almost double to triple the price of the doing extension itself . But you 've seen how much work is involved in making an extension each month . The agency will have to visit the immigration office all those times instead of you . Indonesian 60 days tourist visa is extendable 4 times ! Good news came along with this research , both the agency &amp; article discussed above mentioned the fact that I can extend my Indonesian 60 days visa 4 times 30 days ! Which means I can stay a total of 180 days ( 60 + 4x30 ) in Indonesia . Resources for agencies Here is a list of web pages providing the details of some visa extension agencies ( or freelance agents ) , you can easily find more by doing some googling : No 130 , Jalan Bypas Ngurah Rai , Kuta . +62 ( 0 ) 81337252636 , <URL> Mr Ketut Punia , Bali Lines in Jalan Hanoman , 0812 3618810 , <URL> <URL> <URL>
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
The scheme for Iranians to visit Georgia visa-free was <URL> . Unless they qualify for <URL> , Iranian citizens now need a visa ( which can be <URL> ) . This arose from two issues : First , the USA suggesting to Georgia that they should not let Iranians come into the country so easily ; and second , Georgia 's long-term desire to eventually become an EU member state . <URL> : 30 days visa-free entry for those born in Georgia but who are not citizens ; 90 in 180 days for those holding a valid visa or residence permit for a Schengen member state , or for Australia , Bahrain , Bermuda , British Virgin Islands , Canada , Cayman Islands , Falkland Islands , Gibraltar , Israel , Japan , Kuwait , New Zealand , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Turks and Caicos Islands , USA , or United Arab Emirates . Given the contents of this list , it 's quite possible that your Iranian friend already has such a visa .
I discovered this method last year when I was in Asia , possibly when I was already in Cambodia . At that time I found multiple threads of various forums discussing it but I 'll answer now off the top of my head and try to come back and add some links afterward . You ca n't do this in a tourist visa , but It 's just as easy to get a business visa for Cambodia as a tourist visa . If you are eligible to get a tourist visa on arrival at the airport or border , you can get also get a business visa there . The cost is only marginally higher . As I recall just $ 5 USD more . After entering Cambodia go to an immigration office . I ca n't recall if you must do this on the first day possible or if you can do it any time before your business visa expires . Get an extension on your business visa . As I recall you can get 6 months or 12 months and the fee is on the order of $ 100 USD or so . Some reports I have read that are now a few years old suggest that a 3 month extension is sufficient ! Being in Cambodia on a business visa of at least a certain minimum length of time gives you some kind of legal status as a resident of Cambodia . The Russian embassy/consulate will accept this resident status as fulfilling their requirement for issuing visas only to residents of Cambodia . References ... hopefully I can find some more/better/more recent ones to add ... <URL>
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
Currently the only variant to visit the cosmos is to go to the <URL> The only way to visit the ISS is to go there aboard a Russian <URL> . Note : you must go through some training before this . The price is up to ( and more to go to open space ) . In the near future the Russian company RosCosmos is going to provide tours around the Moon , but it is still a project , not a real tour perspective . Other tours are all about near-Earth flights . Update <URL> <URL> the first commercial flight to the Moon in 2017 ( 50 years from Appolo 1 flight ) , the price is $ 300.000.000 for two places . Flight will be done via russian Soyuz . Good luck !
Have a look at <URL> . You apply for visa online , and then physically get it by reporting to a consular service within 3 days of entering the country ( you get an entry permit sent to your email which you use to actually enter ) . I would not advise trying to obtain visa/entry at the border , unless you are exempt from visa by Abkhazia . Also take note of the following important info : Citizens of the following countries must have double entry or multiple Russian visas to come to Abkhazia ( it is a mandatory requirement , since the Russian Embassy in Abkhazia will not issue transit visas to the citizens of these countries ) : Algeria Angola Afghanistan Bangladesh Vietnam India Iraq Iran PRC DPRK ( North Korea ) Nepal Nigeria Pakistan Rwanda Syria Somalia Chad Sri Lanka Ethiopia See more at : <URL> and : NOTE ! When visiting Abkhazia through the territory of the Russian Federation you must receive at least a double entry Russian visa ( the first time you enter Russia on the way to Abkhazia and the second time you visit Russia on your way from Abkhazia back to your home country ) . Foreign citizens are required to have a double entry or multiple visa of the Russian Federation . See more at : <URL>
Normally if you 're stopped or involved in an accident police officers are asking for 3 things : License Registration Proof of Insurance . Normally in the case of the rental from a private party or from a car rental company you do n't have car registration available but you do have a rental agreement signed by you and an authorized representative allowing you to drive the car . <URL> formerly known as <URL> provides this service for you so they must have formalized to process but I do n't have their contract available but I have found a few others online <URL> <URL> and so on . One of the things that could pose a problem is actually insurance . I have n't found any companies in the US in any state that will sell a policy to a non-US resident for a limited term , but a policy holder in the US ( and your friend will have to have one to register the car ) will be allowed to add you as a foreign driver to his/her insurance thus clearing the last obstacle ( this may vary from state to state and company to company ) . P.S. . There have been anecdotal evidence that a possession of a car registration allows you to legally drive someone else 's car but I ca n't find any proof of that so do n't take it at face value .
end question
start question
How to draw cash when ATM does not accept card ?
A few tidbits about Visa Debit cards ( from the USA I am guessing ) . While they work in all USA ATMs , as you discovered they are not always tied to the Plus ATM network so you need to make sure the ATM machine displays the Visa logo . If you have a choice , when outside the USA the card should be treated as a " credit card " not a " debit card " when used for POS ( points of sale ) transactions ( food , stores , gas , etc ) . The USA systems for pin based debit transactions are n't link to many countries outside . Many banks now limit the cash advance amount to the same as your ATM withdrawal limit . They used to allow you to withdraw up to your daily limit for purchases , but now most treat the advance the same as ATM transactions . If the ATM asks what account , what we call a " checking " account , many countries call a " current " account . Always let your bank known you will be traveling and where .
Slightly more than a year ago , on 2011-12-30 CET , as a German citizen , I bought a prepaid card in an <URL> shop in <URL> / Les Halles , Paris . That 's an 11 min travel by public transport ( <URL> ) from Arc de Triomphe . The price for the card was 5 EUR , incl . 5 EUR of credit . I then charged the card with 15 EUR , bought at a <URL> just around the corner , because in the Orange shop that was not possible . The Orange card has an option called Internet max that can be activated either in the SIM card menu somewhere under Multimedia , or online . See the screenshot below : Currently it offers 500MB for 9 EUR per month . Activation of the option took some hours . Tethering did not work , but I believe that it 's possible to hack around that . Note that in the shop they told me that with a standard Orange prepaid card the data option is not available . They are wrong !
As a rule of thumb , visas are issued by independent states , while subnational entities issue entry permits . Also , as another rule of thumb , a visa is granted in advance but an entry permit is given on arrival . The Cook Islands are a dependency of New Zealand that control their own immigration ( hence the entry permits ) , but " outsource " their foreign policy to New Zealand and thus operate no overseas embassies that could grant visas . The vast majority of visitors also receive their permits on arrival , although there is a provision to apply in advance for longer stays/work permits . Some other examples of subnational entry permits : Andaman and Nicobar Islands ( India ) , Mount Athos ( Greece ) , Sarawak ( Malaysia ) ...
If you are used to travelling by yourself , you will be fine . In subways and trains they usually make announcements in English as well as Japanese . At the very least for stations where tourists would want to get off , but often for all stations . If you go to the information counter or the guy sitting next to the ticket gates in the train stations you can get subway and train maps with English text . Staff is usually very friendly everywhere , and they will try to explain in English , even if that takes some time . Buses can be Japanese only , but they are seldom needed to reach tourist attractions ( depends a bit on where you want to go ) , and if you talk to the driver ( try not to be there at rush hour ) and tell them you want to get off at soandso and sit near them , they will usually get you to the right place . It is also useful to visit tourist offices , the people there usually have English maps and flyers and can tell you how to get to places . They are usually in every bigger train station . If you have to ask someone on the street , you should go for someone between 25 and 40 who does n't look too busy . Their English might not be perfect , but they will almost definitely try to help you and send you in the right direction . If you give me a list of where exactly you want to go , I can probably give a more detailed assessment . Of course , a guided tour might enable you to see more things , but you will probably really only see them . Out of the bus , photo , back into the bus . But if you are the kind of person that likes to look at stuff at their own pace , you are definitely better off going by yourself . I do n't know if you like that kind of thing , but backpacker 's hostels usually have very talkative English speaking staff who will give you lots and lots of directions and recommendations if you ask .
If there is still a sim provider that takes days to activate a sim card , just go to the next provider . These days most sims work right out of the box . You should wonder however if you really need a sim . There are definitely still packages worth considering , but bear in mind that recently new eu legislation has dropped the roaming fee dramatically , starting July 2013 . The roaming fees are sometime cheaper then a local sim card . Check the <URL> and compare them with the local providers .
Yes , it is a real thing . It is to encourage immigration from countries that have low immigration rates to the US . There are tens of thousands that are given each year . I want to say around 50,000 . The idea is to increase the USA 's diversity . If you ' win ' the lottery , you receive a ' Green Card ' or permanent residency in the United States . EDIT : True ( via Hippietrail ) , you should be very careful . I believe Russia was on the list last year , but you must check that . Although Ukraine I know tops for number of lottery issues in Europe . Warnings about the program can be seen <URL> . The registration is <URL> .
No , it does not need to match . I have a UK EHIC card ( bound to my insurance as a UK resident ) and have a passport of another EU state , that is totally fine and worked well so far . As you can see in the <URL> , you can apply for an EHIC card as a national of the UK , EEA and Switzerland . All what counts is your proof of residency . ( That concerned the first version of the question ) : However , in case the UK leaves the EU completely and without health insurance agreements between the EU and UK being in place , you need ( as a UK resident ) to take care of your insurance matters yourself ( for getting emergency treatments in EU countries ) .
Coverage is specific to each policy which can vary greatly for each country so it is hard to generalise , but I 'll generalise anyway and hope it helps . As you mentioned , there are broadly two types of insurance that you need to consider : collision - which covers damage to the vehicle ; and liability - which covers damage you may inflict to others . Since insurance is a high margin area for car rental companies ( at least in the US ) it is smart to do your homework ahead of time and avoid making the decision at the counter The first place to check is your own car insurance policy , if you have one . Generally it includes liability for any car that you drive and not just the car ( s ) that you own , so that which would include a rental car . It may also include collision coverage of rental cars depending on your policy which means that you do not need to purchase any coverage from the car rental company . Some credit cards do include insurance for car rentals as a benefit , but this is specific to the particular credit card program . Call your credit card company to check the details of your coverage . If you do n't have coverage through either of those , you can purchase third-party insurance which is likely to be cheaper than purchasing through the car rental company . Depending on the car rental company , you may on occasion need to provide proof of any external insurance coverage if you decline the rental company 's coverage . Also , in the case of damaging the vehicle , you may be required to pay the rental car company for the damage and then claim it back through your insurance provider . You may also find rental companies selling personal belongings or similar protection . This is generally unnecessary as your belongings are likely covered by either your Homeowners , Contents , or Travel insurance . As a side note -- in my experience , insurance offered by the rental companies in the US is expensive ( e.g. doubles the cost of the rental ) but offers low or even zero deductibles . In Europe , the insurance offered by the rental companies is generally cheaper ( e.g. a couple euros extra per day ) but the deductible is much higher ( e.g. $ 500 - $ 1000 ) and they may require a deposit to cover it ( e.g. a hold on a credit card ) . When I first rented a card in Europe I was shocked by this and was n't prepared to cover the deposit . But now I much prefer it as I no longer have a car insurance policy and hate paying the outrageous rates when traveling back to the US and there is no high deductible option .
If your wife has an article 10 residence card , she does not need a visa if she travels with you . The UK 's residence card for the family member of an EEA national is an article 10 card . She is also entitled to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passports queue when she arrives in the Schengen area , even though she does n't have an EU , EEA , or Swiss passport , because she is a " person enjoying freedom of movement under Union law . " Your marriage certificate is enough to establish her right of free movement , but it is not by itself sufficient to exempt her from the visa requirement . This may account for the variation in the advice you 've received . The freedom of movement directive is <URL> . Beneficiaries of the right of freedom of movement are defined in article 3 . Paragraph 1 says : This Directive shall apply to all Union citizens who move to or reside in a Member State other than that of which they are a national , and to their family members as defined in point 2 of Article 2 who accompany or join them . Article 2 defines " family member " to mean , among other relations , the spouse . Article 5 , paragraph 2 says : Family members who are not nationals of a Member State shall only be required to have an entry visa in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 or , where appropriate , with national law . For the purposes of this Directive , possession of the valid residence card referred to in Article 10 shall exempt such family members from the visa requirement . ( Emphasis added . ) Article 10 , paragraph 1 says : The right of residence of family members of a Union citizen who are not nationals of a Member State shall be evidenced by the issuing of a document called ' Residence card of a family member of a Union citizen ' no later than six months from the date on which they submit the application . A certificate of application for the residence card shall be issued immediately . The entitlement to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passport lanes is in the <URL> . Article 2 , paragraph 5 : ' persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law ' means : ( a ) Union citizens within the meaning of Article 20 ( 1 ) TFEU , and third-country nationals who are members of the family of a Union citizen exercising his or her right to free movement to whom Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 21 ) applies ; ( Emphasis added ) Then , in article 10 , paragraph 2 : Persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law are entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) of Annex III . They may also use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part B1 ( ' visa not required ' ) and Part B2 ( ' all passports ' ) of Annex III . Thus , as long as she is traveling with you or joining you , your wife is a " person enjoying the right of free movement under Union law " and is therefore " entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) . "
In principle overbooking does not happen in ryanair and in most LCCs . There might be other reasons but one of them is to assure that you take your hand luggage with you . Ryanair charges extra for checked in luggage therefore almost everyone carries hand luggage . This used to be a problem because there is not enough space inside the cabin for everyone to put their luggage . Currently hand-luggage that does not fit goes to the cargo hold . They usually start distributing the tags to put the luggage on the cargo hold among the last persons on the queue . If you want to be sure your luggage flyes with you the only way is to queue early ( or buy the priority boarding ) . If your luggage goes into the cargo hold under this conditions you do n't need to pay extra . You actually deliver the luggage when you walk to the airplane .
Honestly , it 's the most efficient payment method you could use . It 's illogical NOT to get one . When you buy one , you pay a deposit of 5 pounds . You get this back when you return it - so essentially it 's free . Then you put say , twenty pounds on the card - you can top up as you wish . After that , ANY random bus , tube or train trip within London is half price . Why would you NOT use it ? If you use it a few times in one day , which it then works out as reaching the price of a day ticket , it stops charging you . Unless you go to a different zone of course , but even then if you hit the limit for say , two or three zones , it 'll match that too . Then if you 're there for a week , you can buy , say , a zone 2-3 ticket and have unlimited travel in those zones for the week . It 's faster , cheaper and easier than paying for separate tickets . For more information , check out <URL> .
Visa typically go in ( or are used in conjunction with ) a travel document ( that 's actually an explicit requirement in countries I am familiar with , I do n't know Mexican law but official websites suggest it 's the same there , see below ) . So even if you somehow got a visa , that would n't solve the passport problem . But having a green card should exempt you from any Mexican visa requirement so at least the visa should not be an issue , the travel document is . The <URL> indicates that travelers require a " Passport or valid identification and travel that is valid under international law " . If you ca n't get a passport , that would mainly leave the <URL> and the <URL> . In the US , <URL> but not the former ( see comment ) . The US also issues something called a <URL> but as far as I can tell , it 's just some ad hoc document that would allow the person to reenter the US , it might not be " valid under international law " as far as Mexico is concerned . Still , <URL> and <URL> suggest that it is in fact accepted as a travel document by many countries so it could be another solution . If that does not work , yet another solution could be to get a US Re-entry permit ( for the return to the US ) and some form of " laissez-passer " from the Mexican authorities ( no idea if they issue something like that or how much it costs but some countries do ) . Both the refugee travel document and the re-entry permit are listed as WHTI-compliant travel document by major US airlines like <URL> and <URL> so flying should be no problem , provided you have the right to enter Mexico . None of this is particularly cheap or easy , being a refugee typically sucks . Considering that this is a pretty atypical case , I would try to check everything ( including a potential visa requirement in spite of the green card ) with the Mexican authorities as soon as possible .
Sometimes I get the same problem where I 'm unable to perform this online ; what I do - I call directly to the airline ( have your PNR/ticket number ready ) and ask to have your seat assignment . It will be wise if you know the type of airplane before so you can get visualization about the layout ) . Also , when you get your seat assignment over the phone - ask to have it recored in the PNR ( this is obvious but I had a case where there was no indication for my seat ) . For " Premium Economy on JAL " you will need to know the type of airplane and route ; sometimes there 's different layout for different plane/routes .
As per Lonely Planet <URL> , only currency that can be withdrawn in Zambia is Zambian Kwacha . If you have make payment in USD , then either carry the cash in USD or withdraw money in Zambian Kwacha and buy USD from the banks . In case you decide to carry cash in USD , keep in mind few things ( quoting from the above link ) - All USD must be new editions ( 2006 for some denominations and 2009 for others ) . No creases , no marks . Carry large denominations ( $ 50 and $ 100 ) as they can only be changed as the exchange bureau All ATMs accept Visa cards , but most do n't accept your Master Card And also there was a ruling in June 2012 that companies are not allowed to deal in USD and can only accept the local currency Kwacha . So check with the places where you were asked to pay in USD once again , they might ask you to pay in Kwacha after this ruling . PS : Zambia is changing its currency in January 2013 and dividing their currency by 1000
First of all , it depends on why your card is retained . I can think of at least three common situations : You have entered a wrong PIN too many times . Your issuing bank has decided to cancel and retain your card , e.g. because you have exceeded your credit limit and they want to prevent you from charging the card at " offline merchants " . This may of course be a mistake by your issuing bank . A failure ( software or mechanical ) in the ATM prevents it from returning your card . In the first two situations , you are unlikely to get your card back . The wrong PIN count is recorded on the card itself , so even if you got it back , it would be retained again the next time you are trying to use it . The wrong PIN counter on the magnetic strip can at least in theory be reset , so that the card itself is reactivated . This can however only be done by the issuing bank . If you are using a card with a chip , the chip may permanently deactivate if you exceed the number of allowed wrong PIN entries . In this case , you need a new physical card . If the card is retained on request by your issuing bank , the cause is not specified through the ATM network , so the ATM operator would not know why your bank wants the card to be retained . Common practice is to not return such cards to the holder . After all , the operator must assume that your issuing bank requested the card to be retained for some reason . In this case , the card is not necessarily permanently deactivated , but can be reactivated if you are able to solve the issue with your bank . This may of course mean a lot of hassle for you and may require you to convince both your issuing bank and the ATM operator to get in touch with each other , so that you can get your card back . In the third case , if the ATM swallows your card without obvious reason , you are likely to be able to get your card back . Even if it 's not solved immediately , the ATM operator will have no reason to further retain your card , and return it to you . If the ATM is not located in a bank office or you are using the ATM outside the opening hours , there is of course no one immediately available to do this . In many cases , you can find a phone number for customer support located on the ATM . They may or may not be able to help you . Unfortunately , it is not possible to reliably prevent any of these situations from happening . Even if your card is retained by mistake , do not expect too much effort from the ATM operator to help you with a swift solution . There are however a few things you can do to mitigate the consequences of a retained card : Do not use ATMs outside regular bank offices . If they are malfunctioning and retaining your card by mistake , you are bound to spend much time resolving the issue . Try to use ATMs in actual banks during the opening hours or at least in a location you can stay until the bank opens again on the next working day . In this case , you have at least someone to talk to , who can actually get access to your card . Check with your bank or card issuer in advance which options you have if your card is lost or retained . Do they offer emergency cash on a short notice ? Are they able at all to issue you a new card , which is delivered to you on short notice in or near the locations you are traveling to ? If not , you should consider a travel insurance with such benefits . If possible , bring at least two ATM cards from different banks . If one of the issuing banks for some reason decides to bar your card , you can use the second card until the issue with the first card is solved . Do not be unreasonably afraid to carry enough cash . I guess this depends on where you are traveling , but my experience is that it is much more likely to run into problems when trying to pay with or withdraw cash from an ATM card than to be robbed .
If I travel to a destination in Europe that is outside the UK ( my home base ) , I take 100 Euro in cash . There 's no need for more because ATM 's are available . If I go outside the EEA , like to the US or Africa , I take 200 in Sterling and the equivalent of 100 dollars in local currency ( like Canadian dollars for example ) . My rationale is that if more cash is needed , then something extraordinary has come up where there 's a problem anyway . The exception being Russia . Although you are supposed to be purely Rubble in everything you do , you only need about 3,000 Rubble with the rest in Euro . What Mark did n't mention in his answer ( +1 from me by the way ) is for the generic case where you travel a lot . Then it can be better to keep <URL> . They can help prevent your <URL> in both directions . I keep a Dollar account along with my Sterling account just for that purpose . Talk to your bank if you think that a denominated account can be helpful for you . These types of accounts are available at most of the major banks in the US . Adding from commentary If you are going to be driving and the country levies on-the-spot speeding ( or whatever ) penalties , make the cash amount in local currency enough so that you will be able to pay there &amp; then . Or expect to have your car impounded until you pay in some countries . Update ( 5 April 2015 ) You have updated your question to now ask " What types of things is he likely to need cash for ? " In the Netherlands ( and most of the EEA in general ) , he would likely need cash for ... News agents Small grocery stores Traffic penalties Tips Older style taxis and gypsy cabs Open air market vendors Charity donations ( including cathedral collections ) Illicit items ( out of scope here ) The most consequential of these are penalties which are actively intervened by the police ( as opposed to violations caught on traffic cameras ) . Penalties can vary , but in all except the most egregious cases are less than 50 to 70 Euro ... Foreign offenders will be fined the penalty payable in the country of the offence , but fines vary across Europe , with Germany levying $ 10 for a minor speed offence while France fines offenders $ 68 ( or $ 45 if paid promptly ) . Source : <URL> In the Netherlands , speeding penalties are calculated with a mathematics formula , but it would be extraordinary to see a penalty exceeding 35 Euro if you are clocked within 6 km/h of the limit . Violations that are caught on camera are dealt with by a penalty notice sent to the registered owner . For visitors it means the rental agency will pay the fine and debit your credit card for the amount plus their handling fee .
The other answers provide a bunch of handy tips for weeding out the absolute worst excuses for sushi , but little help for distinguishing the mediocre from the sublime . How , exactly , are you going to find out about " freshness " before you try it ? No , there 's only one rock-solid reliable indicator of excellent sushi : the opinion of the local Japanese expat community . No matter where you go in the world , there will be Japanese expats there and restaurants that cater to them , in two categories . Category one is for the expense-account salarymen set , who will pay whatever it takes for good sushi ; and category two is for the working holiday/married to local/university student/starving artist set , who occasionally want good sushi but are not willing to pay their monthly rent for a meal . Needless to say , the bang for buck is much better in category two : for example , the expense account set in Singapore liked a joint called <URL> , where dinner starts at S$ 165 + + , whereas students used to frequent a ( now closed , alas ) place tucked on the top floor of the Central shopping mall which did entirely respectable sushi sets for S$ 10 . Stupendous sushi at <URL> in Hampton , an obscure suburb of Melbourne , where the vast majority of " Japanese " food is dire . You will never , ever find this place unless you live next door , or ask a Japanese expat . The hard part is finding out these out , especially if you do n't know any local Japanese residents and do n't speak Japanese . As a rule of thumb , though , there will be always be a web forum that serves the local Japanese community : in Singapore , it 's <URL> , in Jakarta it 's <URL> , in Melbourne it 's <URL> , etc. . Then search for eg . 寿司 ( " sushi " ) or 美味しいお寿司屋さん ( " tasty sushi restaurant " ) , run the results through Google Translate , and you 'll find the best sushi in the place , guaranteed .
There 's no definitive answer to this and it will vary by country and airline . This is what the UK Civil Aviation Authority says : <URL> From a safety point of view children ( it does n't specify an age ) SHOULD be seated CLOSE to their parent/guardian . The reasons are many but if you imagine a decompression for example , where the oxygen masks deploy , you want someone to be able to fit the mask to the child . Parents may not trust a random stranger to do this for their offspring . If there was an emergency evacuation , you do n't want parents having to move around the aircraft trying to get to their children to ensure they are evacuated etc. . Once the child gets to an age where they are responsible enough to look after themselves in the event of an emergency , then you can consider this to be reasonable . This will vary depending on the child to some extent but perhaps age 12 would be reasonable . Of course if you have 6 children as we do , you will invariably be separated by at least a row or an aisle , we always try to seat the youngest ones closest . In the past airlines ( at least the ones I 've flown with ) would always try to seat families together but now that a lot of them charge for reserved seats they are less helpful in this regard .
As far as I know it 's not possible for free , but you can buy a subscription to a tool like <URL> that can look up availability on any flight : The numbers in the " Availability " column represent free seats in each fare class : in this case , Business class ( buckets J C D ) on LH401 is wide open ( 9 or more seats ) , while the same flight codeshared as UA8840 has only 4 seats per bucket free . As Doc points out , these do n't map 1:1 to empty seats , but the general trends will be pretty obvious : all 0s is packed , all 9s is empty . The obvious caveat is that , if you look at a flight far in advance and it 's still empty , it does n't necessarily mean it will still be empty on the day of the flight . Alternatively , you can use any of a number of travel sites with fare prediction capabilities to figure out when you should travel , since cheap fares tend to correlate fairly directly with the number of free seats . The original , Farecast ( bought by Microsoft and rebranded as Bing Travel ) is now gone , but <URL> now offers something similar .
Although I have not found an official statement yet , many people on the Web insist that empirically there is no expiration . <URL> Can I get a refund for the remaining balance ? T-Money cards have no expiration date and the unused balance will remain on your card until the entire amount is used up . You can receive a refund for the balance on your card at convenience stores like GS25 that charges KRW 500 ( RM 1.43 ) fee and the card price of KRW 2,500 is not refundable . <URL> Or , you can just keep the T-money and the money on it for the next time you come to Korea because it NEVER expires !! <URL> My sister lives in China , and her T-money card from 4 years ago still worked . So for the time being let me make this question resolved as it has no expiration .
end question
start question
Is a 17-inch ( wide ) / 30-inch ( pitch ) seat comfortable for a long-haul flight ?
As a tall person with an ideal weight , you should n't worry about the width of the seat . What you should worry about is the pitch of the seat , which will give you a better idea of the leg room . If you wonder <URL> : Seat Pitch is the distance from any point on one seat to the exact same point on the seat in front or behind it . While it is not the exact equivalent of " legroom " , it does give a very good approximation of how much seat room you should expect . Bottom line : the more seat pitch the better . China airline 's 777 in economy has a seat pitch of a 32 " , which is pretty standard in many regular airlines around the world ( ± 1 " ) . Is it comfortable ? not really for a guy your height , but almost all other airlines have similar seat sizes and your best option is to get a seat in the emergency exit row where leg room is much better . Other option would be upgrading yourself to premium economy or business .
For the cities you need to name in your application , you do n't have to visit them exactly . I was n't sure where I was travelling , and merely named the big cities - St Petersberg , Moscow etc. . They just want a rough itinerary of where you plan to go . Once you 're IN the country , you 're required to register in a city if you 're there for 3 nights or longer . This is a pain . However , the two processes ( naming the cities on your application and registering in the cities ) are completely unrelated . Yes , it will cost you each time to register , but you can reduce this by moving around a lot ( but keep track of all your train tickets etc , police can ask you for these at any given time ) . In theory you could get registered for say , a week in Moscow and travel elsewhere , but if a policeman checks your registration papers and you 're meant to be staying in Moscow the next two nights , and you 're in Irkutsk , questions may be asked . It 's a risk you 'd have to consider . However , if no police check you , once you exit the country they do n't care again , they just check that you 've not overstayed your visa and that you still have the appropriate documentation from when you entered . So long story short , to minimise registration costs , keep moving around , but keep track of all your journey ticket etc. . However , moving may cost you more than registration , so it 's a case of working out your budget . Source : I 've been to Russia twice , once on a tourist visa , once on a multi-entry business visa ( for tourist purposes - the regular visa was too short for me ) .
The big question mark is how well your dog travels . We 've got a dog that will just curl up and sleep for as long as we choose to travel - she 's done 14 hour non-stop trips with no issues - but I also know dogs that whine incessantly without regular ( three hourly or so ) stops to relieve themselves and/or have a walk around . This will significantly affect travel time and hence where you 'll be able to reach within a given time period . Other than that , you 'll need to confirm that anywhere you 're looking to stay is pet-friendly . This may not be as big an issue in the US , but in Australia options are more limited and require researching and booking ahead . If you 're going to go sightseeing the same applies - is the attraction dog friendly ? What will you do with your dog while you 're visiting the attraction ? Leaving your dog in the car can be ok , but it really depends on the dog and also the parking situation ( under cover is a minimum ) and the weather ( never do it on a hot day ) . The minimum of travel equipment that we 've found is : Water bowl and water . You can get a water bottle with a combined drinking tray that is useful for travelling . Food bowl and food . Something for your dog to sleep on/in , whether it 's a blanket or a bed . Ideally it 's something familiar to the dog and that they 're accustomed to sleeping in . Travel harness . This depends on the dog but our 's is known to try to hop into the driver 's lap - very bad . It also reduces the chance of the dog getting injured if an accident happens . The usual leash and poo bags for bathroom stops .
The right answer to this is that it depends on the consulate officer . I got my B1/B2 with only a single document , my employment/income proof . From what I can understand , as long as consulate officer is convinced that you have enough money to sponsor the trip and enough reason to come back to your country , it is enough for them . Strictly speaking while an invitation letter is a plus , it is not mandatory . It just helps in increasing your chances , in case consulate officer gets suspicious that you are up to no good .
No , not a problem . The interviewer will ask you about the reasons of visiting , and will correct the visa type on the spot if you chose the wrong type . One time , I was applying for D visa ( crew visa ) , and I asked the interviewer if it 's ok to include another visa as well ( B1/B2 ) , he asked me why and I told him I would like to visit if I have some days off , he said ok and I got it . Regarding B1/B2 , most likely you will get the two together , <URL> .
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
And we introduce Mark 's patent-pending method to surviving the hell that is NZ to London superhaul economy class travel : Prepare your entertainment . Sure , you will likely have movies on the plane . But I 've done several 10-13 hour trips with broken screens or no entertainment system - SINCE 2010 . Do n't bet on having it . Charge laptop batteries , iPads , iPods , Kindles , get a new book from the library or whatever keeps you happy . Clothing . It can get cold on a flight . Surprisingly cold . I layer it up - my trick is to always wear my jacket over my top going through security - it means I can just put wallet etc in my zip-up pockets , and simply remove my jacket in security , meaning no having to constantly remove stuff for the xray , especially in the multiple stopovers . Once onboard , I remove it and keep it under the chair in front of me ( I 'm not that tall ) or put it in the overhead compartment . BOOK your seat beforehand , if at all possible . It 's getting harder these days to secure the emergency exit row , but if possible , GET IT . Even if you ca n't , when you get to the airport , ask as nicely and politely as you can to every new staff member you see - at the checkin counter , at the gate , and finally on the plane . All three have worked for me at different times . As a failsafe , book it online beforehand if at all possible , and use <URL> to decide the best seat for your flight . I prefer at the back , it 's slightly bumpier , but away from screaming kids - they tend to locate them close to the bulkhead . Finally , in your decision , realise that if you 're flying over the ocean - there is NOTHING to see - so why have a window seat ? Get an aisle , it means you can get up an walk around any time you want . Just not the very back row - sometimes the seats do n't recline all the way , and you get a queue next to you waiting for the bathroom . Personally , I ca n't sleep on planes . I 've accepted this , and plan accordingly . I dislike sleeping tablets and the side effects , so I sleep well the night before ( or try to ) and then just accept I 'll be stuffed after the flight . However , from all the experience I 've had from others telling me , the eyemasks do wonders , those neck pillows that make you look like such the beginner traveller actually apparently are quite nice , and again , the seat makes a difference - it 's much harder in the middle of three seats to get any sleep . Aisle also means you can put your feet out a bit further , but beware of tramplers . Exit row mitigates this problem - more leg room than you 'll ever need ! Food and drink - never drink alcohol on a superhaul flight . Sure , it 's nice but you 're losing so much body water anyway due to the dry atmosphere that you need all the water you can drink . Ditch the alcohol and go for juice or water instead , and make use of the drinking fountains next to the bathroom/bulkhead - surprising how few people know about them . You 'll feel better during the flight , and look and feel fresher when you land . Drugs - sleeping tablets - some friends swear by them , as well as people like my brother claiming that the anti-jetlag pills completely freed him from the effects . I 'm dubious about the latter , not enough evidence for that yet , but the sleeping ones bother me - some chemically replicate the sleep state - ie , mind asleep , and body ' paralysed ' during that time , and have heard some terrifying stories about <URL> - something terrifying enough in the comfort of your own home , and not something I 'd want to experience at 36,000 ft ! I 'm not sure about the food losing its taste - could just be that airline food is pretty rubbish anyway ;) but perhaps it 's the lack of hydration as well , so water with the food may help . I do n't think anyone ever ' enjoys ' a 29 hour flight ( well of 3 flights ) from one side of the world to the other , but you can at least lessen the pain by enjoying some movies , attempting to sleep , and all else failing , make friends with the person next to you ;)
They are unusual in the West , but there are some airlines that offer cheaper seats when booking for multiple people . In particular , Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific both offer " GV2 " and " GV4 " fares , available only to groups of 2 or 4 passengers respectively . For example , in <URL> , the single passenger price for a Singapore-Chennai/Kolkata return is S$ 700 , while the GV2 fare is $ 600 and the GV4 fare is only $ 500 . These show up automatically when booking online for the appropriate number of people , no travel agent needed . Of course , even in SQ 's case , these fares are not offered on all routes or all flights . When they 're not , you may still be better off following Alessandro 's suggestion and booking separately to get the best possible fare classes . And before you ask , despite living in Singapore for > 7 years , I was never able to figure out what " GV " stands for ! Probably " Great Value " or something equally naff .
It 's not necessarily suspicious , but the airport staff are trained to look more closely at anything unusual . As you may suspect , a big device with wires and batteries will likely garner some additional attention . The best thing to do is to be prepared . Make sure that you 've checked the airline 's list of prohibited items ( the one with guns , grenades are obvious , but there 's also the batteries etc ) . Make sure none of the prohibited items are carry-on , so that you 'll be checking everything in the hold . That gets rid of half their concern , if you wo n't have access to it during the flight . Then , bring documentation . Have a print out of the competition details , hopefully your entry form , details of where you built it , a letter perhaps from your company/university where it was built detailing the purpose . Also include print outs of your accommodation , and any correspondence you have with organisers of the competition . When it comes to the security check , what the staff are generally doing is looking for answers to questions that your robot will raise . Is it a bomb or benign ? Is it dangerous ? What are all those spare parts ? If you can answer those easily and clearly , with documentation , then they 've done their job and will be at ease with it . Every day people travel with equipment , devices , and more and more these days with wires , batteries and cables , so they 're becoming more knowledgeable and understanding . One last tip - get there early , and check in and go through security as early as possible . This reduces your chance of encountering a stressed agent ( at departure , anyway ) and also in the event of extra questioning , or inspection of your device by an expert , reduces the risk of you missing your flight .
GPS devices do not have an active transmitter ( for devices that do n't go online to fetch map data , that is ) ; they work by calculating time signals broadcast at low power by a constellation of satellites . Since there 's no active transmitter and GPS signals are broadcast anyway ( modern aircraft navigation systems do use GPS onboard ) , a watch or a camera technically can not cause interference at all .
An important factor is that seats closer to an exit improve your chances after a crash landing , in case the plane catches fire ( very common ) or sinks underwater . Contradicting the Popular Mechanics study , the <URL> that A seat up to five rows from an exit offers a better than even chance of escaping if there 's a fire , according to researchers from the University of Greenwich commissioned by the Civil Aviation Authority . When seated six or more rows from an exit , however , ' the chances of perishing far outweigh those of surviving ' . Whether the seat is on the aisle or not only makes a ' marginal ' amount of difference , the study shows . The scientists checked the accounts of 2,000 survivors in 105 air accidents around the world . When it comes to surviving a fire , those seated in an aisle had a ' marginally ' higher chance of surviving -- at 65 per cent -- than those seated by a window ( 58 per cent ) . Passengers at the front of the aircraft had a 65 per cent chance of escape , while those at the rear had only a 53 per cent chance .
<URL> does that . When you do the search , one of the options is to subscribe for updates for the route and dates you 've selected , and they 'll email you when the prices change .
Oddly , the legality depends on the country . In the UK for example , it 's a civil offense against the landowner , but not illegal . And as an added bonus , if you ' live ' there for 10 years , you can claim ownership ! ( This has actually happened ) . More often than not , it 's homeless people that squat , rather than travellers . It 's so common in the UK , that there 's even a website - " <URL> " . <URL> also offers some advice and information on squatting , and finishes with a suggestion on alternatives : Squatting is , however , a last resort when it comes to accommodation . A good compromise is becoming a property guardian instead . This is where you move into a disused property , such as a school or office block , with a number of other property guardians , and look after the building legally on behalf of the owners . All your bills are paid for and you pay a very minimal rent - say # 100 a month . You will need to register with - and be vetted by - a property guardian company first , which will then inform you of accommodation that becomes available . But the benefit is it 's all above board , legal and - most importantly - safe .
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
Good news . As a British citizen , assuming you 're visiting for under 90 days , you do n't need a visa . You can apply through the Visa Waiver Program under the <URL> ( Electronic System for Travel Authorization ) . <URL> : British citizens : please note that from 12 January 2009 all nationals and citizens of Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) countries - including the UK - will be required by law to obtain an ESTA travel authorization prior to traveling to the United States under the VWP . Our Visa section has full details of this on their Visa Waiver Program &amp; ESTA . It 's very easy to apply , costs $ 14 , and is valid for 2 years . <URL> . I 've done two applications in the past 4 years , and both were approved within days ( normally immediately , but the first time had some issue with their system confirming payment had gone through ) .
It is no hassle at all to collect miles , which you can then redeem ( eventually ) for almost-free flights . If you will not be flying enough to earn status , you probably do n't care what airline you collect into : Cathay or any of their partners will be a fine destination for your miles . The point of an alliance is that you can redeem CP miles for AA flights , or BA miles for CP flights , etc. ( If you want to get a credit card that is piped into the FF program to collect non status miles , then there is some benefit to choosing a program based in the country where you live . In addition there are sometimes local promotions that are much easier to play along with if they happen in the country where you live . ) The tricky part is if you think you might achieve status , and choosing the right program to have status in . Most programs offer you some or all of : special short lines for checkin access to a lounge access to premium economy seats on the plane larger luggage allowance priority boarding occasional free upgrades All but the last will be offered to you by every partner in the airline 's alliance , so unless you think upgrades are super likely or the most important part of your decision , the overarching consideration is likely to be what number of miles you need for status . Cathay Pacific is in <URL> . The lowest status level on CP that gets you into lounges is <URL> . That level needs <URL> ( essentially miles flown - there is a multiplier used when you buy expensive fares which probably does n't apply to you ) each year . So , if you were going to fly about double what you have planned , or if trips within Europe on BA or within North America on AA might add up to 50K miles , you should peruse that table very carefully to try to find a program where you will hit the correct Elite level to get you the " good stuff " . But if even the lowest qualification levels are out of reach , then check the redemption tables - I find a 10-20 % variation between airlines in Star Alliance and I 'm sure it 's the same in OW - and choose based on that . Look into buying a lounge pass also .
While there is plenty of good advice in the other answers , I feel I have some more to offer that is a little less spontaneous . Sleeping on a plane is a learned skill and it is improved by planning , preparation , and practice . You can change the likelihood of sleep from nearly nil to nearly guaranteed , but not if the first time you start to think about it is as the plane starts to taxi . First , the booking . Generally you have some choice here . Should you leave early in the morning , or late at night ? At 4pm , ensuring you 'll be hungry after a few hours in the air , or at 8pm , when you 're more likely to show up having eaten enough to last you through the night ? If it 's a 7 hour flight and you need to stay awake for 2 hours to get food , you 're not getting more than 5 hours of sleep . Pick a flight that either wo n't require you to sleep much , or that lets you organize the rest of your day to maximize the time you have for sleeping . Also think about whether a glass of wine would help - it 's much easier to get one ( bought in the airport , say ) at 7pm than at 7am . Here is also where you settle window/aisle ( I like window because it gives me a wall to lean on and a few more inches of space from my seat to the wall ) , consider paying for more legroom in a premium seat for $ 100 or so more , and the like . Second , the packing . NEVER count on the airline for pillows , blankets etc. . Sometimes they do n't get them . Sometimes they ca n't give you one until the seatbelt sign is off . Airline pillows are small and weird and most annoyingly , they 're slippery and they fall between your seat and the wall . Bring your own . A bed pillow from home , one of those C-shaped things ( solid or inflatable ) , something . I like an inflatable one with a VERY fuzzy cover and a little pocket for eyeshades : I do n't decline blankets or pillows from the airplane though - they are handy for padding the armrest so I can lean against it or over it without the edge digging into me . Continuing with packing , I bring my own blanket in the form of a pashmina which folds very small but unfolds enough to cover all of me ( 6 ' x 2 ' I suppose . ) I generally use separate blankets for my top and bottom half , to help the crew see that my seatbelt is fastened and to let me move more freely . If the airline does n't give out blankets I 'll use a coat on my legs . My pillow and blanket are familiar and comfortable , they smell right , and I never worry if they 're clean . The eyeshade makes a huge difference also , both in keeping out the light and in telling people you are sleeping and do n't want a drink , a newspaper , dinner , duty free , etc. . And for me , the sensation of the eyeshade on my face reminds me I am supposed to be sleeping . Noise cancelling headphones and a playlist of relaxing and enjoyable music are also on the packing list . These are better than earlugs in my experience , though I always have a few earplugs in the bag just in case . Over-the-ear can be uncomfortable to lie on , so I use earbuds . Plug into the entertainment system when you board , put them in , go to sleep . If you wake later , switch to your playlist and put your seat back . When you have to put your seat up , switch back to their system . I also choose shoes I can slip off and slip back on rather than ones that need tying . Your laceups can be in your checked luggage . So you chose the right flight and seat , you packed the right stuff and you 're at the airport . Eat , drink , go to the bathroom . These are all good ways to pass the time while you 're waiting to board . Also bring an empty water bottle with you that you can fill after security , or buy water in the airport . That way if you wake up thirsty you can immediately fix that and go back to sleep . Now on the plane , all you need to do is sleep . Do n't put the pillow around your neck . You have so little recline , you do n't need to prop your head up . Put it between the side of your head and the wall . Put your ear in the centre hole so it does n't get squished . Coat over legs , blanket over shoulder and chest . Snuggled up warm and cosy , listening to something you like , with a water bottle in easy reach and a clear " leave me alone " sign on your eyes , you will sleep . You just will . And trust me , it is so much better than a book or that movie you never got around to watching in theatres . You will get better at it every time . If you wake up , especially if you 're uncomfortable , change your position . Loosen your seatbelt as much as you can and sort of turn on your side . Or move your feet from on top of the carryon you stuffed under the seat in front of you , to next to it . Adjust your blankets a little . Move your pillow more under your chin . Your approach should be that you will do what you need to do to go back to sleep , not " oh well I tried but I woke up . " Do n't worry about what time it is . You wo n't miss your stop . If you wake up again , then try a third position . You 'll find something comfortable eventually . If you feel anxious when you wake up , especially if you 're getting
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
Check out <URL> . It can help you to plan a trip including transportations , activities , logging , daily trips , or any idea/notes you may have . It allows you to write down ideas without specifying dates and times . But you can definitely plan those specific timings when you 're ready . Hope this helps . Edit : Mindmapping softwares like <URL> might also work for you . But they are not specific for trip planning .
Given that <URL> I 'd say that it would be perfectly legal for you to wear one on the plane regardless of which class you 're flying in . Worst case scenario you 'll get some looks from other passengers . Go ahead and fly comfortable .
end question
start question
How early before departure can I reserve train tickets in France ?
" Usual " sales opening To complement other answers , indeed the sales start exactly 90 days in advance on most trains - TGV and Intercités as @audionuma quoted . Be careful though , some trains like regional ones have specific fare policies that include different starting dates , and that depends on each region ( e.g. I tried on the <URL> and I could add a ticket to the cart for a trip in 1 year ) . The price and availability does not vary on these regional trains so no need to book in advance though . However , some products sometimes have different policies on the starting date , in particular iDTGV , Ouigo , TGVs and Intercités . Unusual : TGVs and Intercités for school holidays For the TGVs and Intercités , there are three periods of the year when tickets may be sold earlier : Christmas , winter holidays ( usually in February ) and the summer . If you have a SNCF fidelity card or are a member of Capitaine Train , you shall receive emails warning you in advance of the sales opening for these popular periods . Here I quote an email received on March 28th that sales for the summer ( until August 30th , the last sunday of the summer holiday period ) opened on April 2nd : Pour vous remercier de votre fidélité , nous avons le plaisir de vous informer en avant-première de la prochaine ouverture des ventes de billets de train pour voyager cet été ! Tenez-vous prêt ( e ) ! Le 2 avril dès 6h , TGV et INTERCITÉS ouvrent les ventes pour vos voyages jusqu'au 30 août 2015 en France et quelques destinations en Europe ! I received similar emails for other periods , so in the end the advance booking was available as follows : on November 7th 2014 sales opened until March 9th 2015 on April 2nd 2015 sales opened until August 30th on October 16th 2014 sales opened from December 14th to February 6th These are indicative dates , if you plan on travelling for popular periods and want to take advantage of low prices , you should expect to book around these dates in future years . Unusual : iDTGV and Ouigo For Ouigo , a service intended for low-cost travel , and for iDTGV , another TGV service , the dates are different : on October 1st , 2014 , sales opened for Ouigo until July 6th , 2015 on September 16th , sales opened for iDTGV until March 29th , 2015 So in the end while the common rule is that sales are opened about 3 months in advance , this varies a lot depending on what train you want to take . If you want to travel during school holidays in particular , the sales opening may be earlier ( or later ) than the usual three months . If you want to be notified by email of these sales openings , you can signup for an account at <URL> or <URL> .
For most purposes , German train tickets have three price categories : local and regional trains ( branded S , RB or RE ) , ' regular ' long-distance trains ( IC or EC ) and ' express ' long-distance trains ( ICE ) . Your ticket is only valid for transport in the cheapest train categories ( S , RB or RE ) . The easiest option to find only these trains in the DB route planner is to tick the check-box for ' local transport ' . You can also select ' further search options ' and under ' connections / less means of transport ' select exactly which train category to search for .
No , you can not . Apart from very specific circumstances , visas must be obtained in advance from your country of usual residence .
This is what the compartment should more or less look like ( <URL> ) : <URL> As you guessed , there is no changing room or something similar . A pillow and sheet like you see in the picture are provided . There is some variation , but most people will sleep in comfortable street clothes or close to that . Usually at the end of the coach there are toilets and a washstand . The washstand is probably the closest you will get to a changing room . You can use it to clean your face , to shave , brush your teeth and eventually do a quick cat wash . No full shower . That you should get somewhere else . If you decide on the cat wash try to leave the washstand as you found it instead of flooded . There might be shower facilities in major stations ( Gare d'Austerlitz in Paris has some for instance , I 'm not sure about German stations ) . If you expect smelly shoes/feet the best option is probably to air your feet and footwear before boarding the train . If you can carry some light sandals to replace your heavy hiking boots , that would be an option . Putting your smelly shoes in plastic bag and knotting it well closed will also make a huge difference . Another thing to be aware of if you want to be considerate towards the other passengers ( and it sounds you are , thank you ) is to avoid noise for people that are already sleeping when you board the train or are still sleeping when you leave the train . If you leave very early make sure that all your luggage is easily retrievable with at minimum on noise . Postpone putting on your shoes until you are outside the compartment , in the corridor . Places to store luggage are under the lower beds ( rather narrow space ) , above the door ( surprisingly large , perfect for bulky items ) and behind that little stair . Avoid putting anything behind the stair when boarding in the middle of the night because putting something there is always noisy . I often put a small bag simply next to me in the bed , but this depends largely on the size of the bag and your own size .
The only requirement is that the boarding pass must be " same day " , so there is no real limit as to when you will be allowed through security as long as it 's the same day as the departure . The only exception to this would be a flight leaving shortly after midnight in which case you will be allowed through security the day before , although in this case it 's possible you would be given some additional scrutiny by the TSA if you were to attempt to pass through security too far in advance .
According to their website , they only release some tickets online , so " Sold Out " does n't actually mean you ca n't go , only that the tickets released online have been sold out . From the <URL> they suggest their tickets may be bought out by scalpers : Resellers of our entrance tickets are active on the internet . They buy up our entrance tickets online , and attempt to sell them at a large profit , often for double the price . This is not permitted . Do not buy tickets from these organisations ; you may be refused entry . ... and in the <URL> ... I want to make a timed reservation using the online reservation system on the website , but I see that very few times are left available . Is the service really fully booked , or is there another way to make a reservation ? On the website you can see exactly what times are still available . If you still want to come at a particular time for which no more online tickets are available , then you can always buy tickets at the Anne Frank House entry desk . However , you may have to wait in the queue . The place is almost always busy as noted by many reviews online and from my own experience as well . Here are some tips ( some are common sense ) : Summer months ( especially July-August ) will be a lot busier than other times of the year . Go in winter when people are less inclined to queue outside . Weekends will be busier than weekdays . Check the <URL> and arrive a half-hour before opening ( or earlier ) . The wait times later in the day can reach over 3 hours ( in peak periods ) . Go in the evenings ( after 5 or 6pm ) when the queues are shorter . This wo n't work in Summer however . Some third parties may sell " general entrance tickets " but these wo n't let you skip the line , I think you need to exchange these at the ticket counter When purchasing tickets at the counter , they must be used then , so you ca n't purchase them for later in the day or another day You could try to join organised tours that claim they can <URL> . If you do manage to get a ticket online , this allows entry at a specific time on a particular day , and you wo n't have to wait in line , there is a separate entrance . Finally if you do see a line , <URL> Estimating the wait How can you gauge your time ? If the line is an L shape , ending just along the Westerkerk , that 's about an hour . If the line is an L shape but ends past the Westerkerk and at the Keizergracht canal , that 's two hours . If the line is a Z and has now turned at the Keizergracht canal and is running behind the Westerkerk , that 's three hours . Any longer , well , you do the math .
That is more or less correct . Tickets are available starting 5 days before departure and have to be bought in person . Travel agencies can act as a proxy to buy on your behalf , but they also have to physically go to the train station to buy your ticket . I would guess this agency 's specification of dates has been simply padded a bit to cover things like holidays , weekends or such that might delay buying or sending tickets .
I may be headed that way myself as part of a relief mission for the <URL> . I would recommend the <URL> ... <URL> It is not an ' official ' source and the feed is intermixed with comments that some may find indecorous ( hence my redaction ) . But there is enough ' live ' information to make it worthwhile . The feed includes ' live ' updates from the BBC and other credible sources . You may also find that the <URL> contains very specific information about what to expect on a moment-by-moment basis ... <URL>
According to the <URL> , there is a cable car operating from Chamonix to Aiguille du Midi almost all year around ( except for 11/4-12 / 20 ) . The return-trip would cost you 55 euro 's .
Yes , but it 's a bit fiddly . If , when you are booking , you are either logged in with a BAEC Silver or Gold membership active ( BAEC silver and gold get seat selection for free at the time of booking ) , or you are doing a ( not logged in ) search for a fully flexible ticket ( full fare tickets get free seat selection at the time of booking ) , then almost at the end of the booking process before entering your credit card details , it lets you pick a seat : At that point , bring up the seat selection tool , and see how many seats are free on that flight . If not enough , go back and pick a different flight . If so , go back and pick the fare class you really wanted to book on . Expect to take a minute or two per flight you check , by the time you get to that bit of the booking ! Remember that this will only show if you 're doing a search when logged in as a BAEC Silver or Gold ( other BAEC tiers or other OneWorld status wo n't work during the booking process ) , or when doing a fully-flexible search when not logged in . Otherwise , some travel agents can look it up , and they can also look up how busy the flight is in a general sense ( how many tickets for sale in each cabin in each fare class ) . If you care , it might be easier to get a good travel agent , ring them up , have them look at the loadings then book you onto the flight with the loading / seats you 're after .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
This website : <URL> has information on most of the strikes . With a little bit of google translate , you can search by tag for the trains or other types of transport . And as the commenter below pointed out , there is even an app . If you are worried about the trains in Paris , for example , search by " RATP " , " SNCF " , or " Paris " . For the cross-country train system , type " TGV " . In my experience , Uber is alive and well during a strike , even in the suburbs .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
Yes , you can buy UK train tickets online with the provision of collecting them at the station . The only problem is that ticket vending machines at stations typically only accept <URL> and thus with your foreign Visa / MasterCard , you may not be able to pick up your tickets unless it 's a chip-and-PIN card . For long-distance journeys , <URL> does has an international delivery option which costs an additional 7.50 GBP ( although if you book early you can also get cheap ' advance ' tickets ) . If you do have a chip-and-PIN card , then sites like thetrainline provide you a unique one-time ID - this , along with your card details allows you to print your tickets out at the station itself . For most short distance journeys , you can buy tickets at the station itself . This is not a problem when the station is staffed ( during work hours ) , but can be when it 's not as you will again find yourself unable to buy from ticket vending machines . You can buy your tickets on the train itself when the guard comes checking tickets , but the portable payment system they use usually does n't support anything other than chip-and-PIN cards . Even with chip-and-PIN cards I have often found payments do not get cleared ( PIN is accepted , but transaction is declined ) so it 's best not to rely on that . In that case you have to make sure you carry enough cash on you before you get on-board a train . You may also be interested in <URL> - you can find how much your savings will be by going to the ' train tickets ' section on most train operators ' websites . As mentioned in a previous answer , you also may find it <URL> .
Seat61.com has <URL> . Prices start at EUR 29 ( advanced fare ) . It 's apparently very difficult to book it online but it might possible by phone . Depending on where you are , you might try your luck on <URL> or <URL> .
When I traveled to Greece 2 years ago I traveled between Athens/Santorini/Mykonos / Ikaria . We bought our tickets when we arrived in Greece . I had the same problem as you , where there was n't a really good website to purchase tickets from in the US , but things may have changed since back then . I did end up use this website <URL> to find out ferry schedules . I just found the sites of two ferries we used a couple times when we were over there . Seems like their websites have improved drastically . <URL> <URL> Take note that some routes are a lot faster than others . This is usually because the boats make more frequent stops or are just faster boats in general . If you do n't book online , there are many travel agencies in Athens and Piraeus that will book tickets for you , you can typically just ask a local where you can buy a ferry ticket . We never ran into a ferry selling out , but of course you may experience something different . With regards to booking deck tickets , it can be cool the first couple of minutes , but can get old very quickly when the water starts splashing around if the water is particularly choppy that day . Also , some ferry decks do not have seating so you have to make yourself comfortable on the deck itself . Also if the sun is out and beating down on you , it can make for a tough trip .
I 'm assuming you mean onboard . It 's perfectly safe . I 've travelled from Washington , D.C. to Chicago , and down to Austin , Texas ( two and a half days ) . I 've also done a bit in the Pacific North West , and from NYC to Phily . So I feel I can speak on this a bit . ( I also did a LOT of it in Canada on a coast to coast trip , but that was split up with buses too ) It 's actually my favourite way to travel . Buses are cramped , anti-social , and you have awful places to stop and eat . Trains - well the ones I used , often had wifi , comfy seats , were easy enough to sleep on ( using two seats , but sleeping sitting up works too ) , power points at your chair . In other carriages there were viewing deck carriages with chairs that faced outwards , and snack cars where you could socialise and meet other travellers . People seemed far more open than on buses . I 've done a lot of Greyhound travel in the US , and that was never fun . Some odd types , full on fist fights in front of me , people doing drugs , and buses breaking down ( these were just the worst cases , not every trip ) . The train ran late into Austin , but that was about it . For reference , there seems to no longer be a direct coast to coast , which was what I planned too . I took the <URL> from DC to Chicago , and then from Chicago I took the <URL> down to Austin , and then if you continue on that it does end up in Los Angeles . Not <URL> . Safety wise , I never felt unsafe , and sure , an opportunist might have pick-pocketed me while I was asleep if they were really good , but I 've usually locked up my bags or have them under my feet if I 'm dozing anyway . If you actually mean the trains themselves , <URL> to improve the safety of rail throughout the US , to force rail companies to adopt measures to further improve their systems .
Yes , there 's a ' rest area ' of sorts if you can get airside , according to <URL> , and the airport is open 24 hours . Nothing great though , unless you pay - there are hotels available . Rest Zone - The Kainuu Lounge is a space that is open to all passengers who are looking to a quiet place to rest and relax between flights . They do n't offer much in terms of seating , but apparently laying on the carpeted floor is comfortable . Location : Airside , Gate 31 . Hours : open 24 hours . There are some lounges , hotels , and 24 hour cafes , which if it were me , would be where I 'd head - they often have comfy seats and do n't care about overnight nappers , based on many experiences in other airports .
Of course you can , at least you can try . Hostels are small businesses that do n't work by strict rules . And why should they not take your reservation on the same day ? There is always the chance that they are full , but then you stay somewhere else and come back the next day if you really want to stay at that place . I think in 20 months in Latin America , I called ahead twice , in both cases these were popular hostels in remote locations with nothing else nearby ( both not in Peru ) . In all other cases I just walked in ( and sometimes out again after seeing the place ) . If you have a phone , it ca n't hurt to check their availability before taking a bus or taxi half-way through a city .
If you want to use data on your phone then you need to buy a local SIM card . Do not use data if you are using your original SIM on a roaming plan . The costs are beyond insane . Call Verizon and establish whether your phone is unlocked and whether you are able to change SIMs . If the phone is locked and Verizon wo n't unlock it , then your options are nil , and you have to pay the insane roaming costs . Make sure you understand those costs well before you leave . For advice on how/where to pick up a SIM card , see feklee 's reply to this answer .
end question
start question
Connection in Johannesburg - Can I leave the airport with a Brazilian passport ?
According to South Africa 's Department of Home Affairs , <URL> , whether in transit or for a stay of less than 90 days in South Africa . So yes , you should be able to get admitted through passport control , and leave the airport at your convenience . There are several companies which market Jo ' burg tours to people on layovers ; I would inquire about these at the airport . Johannesburg is rather spread out , and many of the more popular attractions , like the Apartheid Museum and the Cradle of Humankind , are neither close to the airport nor convenient to Gautrain or Metrorail .
It 's actually a lot simpler than the WikiVoyage article makes out , so no need to worry ! ( I 've now fixed that page ... ) . The bus company website has changed recently , and the new timetable page is now <URL> If coming on foot from the city centre , your best be is to walk along Ul . kneza Branimira past the Graffiti wall , then turn onto Avenija Marina Drzica . You 'll see the bus station on your right , and the Airport bus goes from the first building you come to in the bus station , which is white and labelled with Croatian Airlines and Eurolines . Walk through the ticket office and out to where the bus goes from . Pay the driver on boarding . If coming by tram , take a 2 , 5 , 6 , 7 or 8 to Autobusni Kolodvor ( the bus station ) . Cross over to the bus station side , and turn right . Walk north ( towards the railway line ) to the end of the bus station , with the shops on your left . The very end part of the building is labelled with Croatian Airlines and Eurolines , and that 's the part you want . If you need to change trams to get there , be aware that the stops at Drziceva are all a long way apart , so it 's not a good place to change . Either get off there and walk ( it 's only a couple of minutes ) , or change at Olipska where the platforms are opposite . The airport buses do n't leave from the main part of the bus station , so if you 're in there you 'll need to exit down to the street , walk to the end of the building and enter the dedicated airport buses part there . It currently costs kn 30 one way , payable to the driver in cash on boarding . There are cash machines outside a few of the shops on the main road outside if you need them , and coming from the airport there 's a cash machine inside baggage reclaim , and others in the main airport building .
The answer is more or less given in two related <URL> <URL> . So in theory you should be able to travel to the UK with a recently expired passport . However , as it is mentioned in the comments , do expect issues . You might also be denied boarding , by either the ferry or carrier , since they have to bring you back when denied entry .
When exactly does your OPT expire - at Christmas as you 've stated , or 60 days beforehand ? Presuming it expires at Christmas , then you are legally able to stay in the US for 60 days after expiry . You are NOT allowed to work during that period , but you can legally stay in the country for other purposes , so if you 're planning to be a tourist for less than 60 days , AND you do not plan to leave the US during that time , then you 're good ! Once you leave the US after the expiry of your OPT , then you are NOT allowed to re-enter using the OPT - even if it is still within the 60 day grace period . However , as a Canadian Citizen you are allowed to re-enter the US as a tourist . Technically there is no reason that you could not do the immediately ( " same day " ) , however as with all entries it is at the discretion of the immigration officials to determine if they believe you are entering for the purposes you 're stating or not . If they believe that you are re-entering the US for the purposes of working , then they can deny your entry . How likely this is to occur will depend on your exact situation - if it were me I would have as much paperwork as possible available to show that you are a tourist rather than returning to work .
If you do n't have Russian Visa , you wont be able to get out to the city . Moscow have huge traffic jams ;) It 's can take few hours to get into the center , and few hours back . I would n't risk to miss my flight , even though I 'm Russian . However you probably can make it and see Moscow for 1-2 hours , but I do n't think it worth it to spend time/money for visa , and to be in such a hurry :) P.S. : Moscow never sleep .
Yes , it 's open ! The escalator between the terminal and the station is still not ready ( latest estimate " spring 2016 " ) , but <URL> that connect directly from the walkway between T1/T2 to the station .
According to the TSA website , compressed cylinders are not allowed : <URL> Section : Disabling Chemicals &amp; Other Dangerous Items Fire extinguishers and other compressed gas cylinders Allowed : NO This does n't mean the airline does n't have specific requirements , but assuming you are leaving from the US it 's TSA that you have to get through first before dealing with the airline .
Your passport is an important document and it should be kept safe at all times . One of the best ways in general is not to have it with you but keep it in the hotel safe . This varies by location and in some places , it is safer with you . In Singapor , crime is very low and there should not be a problem to have it with you . My strategy is to keep a photocopy of the important passport page with me . That copy is folded up and takes very little space . It is not an official document but has enough information to show who I am . Note that in some countries you have the obligation to keep a piece of identification with you at all times . For a foreigner , this often means the passport but not necesarily . Any travel book of the location you are going to usually references the rule but to have the official word , consult the embassy .
Certainly not . As a foreigner who lived in the UK for four years , I definitely only needed my passport for international travel . I used my New Zealand photo driver 's license initially for ID ( eg , to get into a bar ) , and then my UK one . For opening bank accounts and others where you sometimes require two forms , then you bring your passport . The UK is not like Russia or Uzbekistan where police on the street can and do stop you without cause and demand ID ( in my case , six times in one day in Tashkent , Uzbekistan ) . And in the event they DO need your ID , a driver 's license generally suffices - or they can go with you to your place of residence to get your passport if you for some reason got into serious strife . I can only think of a handful of cases that I needed my passport . To open a bank account , to prove my visa status for starting a new job , for renting a flat / staying in a hostel , and you definitely need it for hiring a car . I remember this one as I tried to argue it , but had to eventually go back home and get my passport . I was n't pleased .
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
Canadian citizens may generally enter the US without a visa . Exceptions where Canadians are required to have a visa depend on the purpose for which they are entering , or on their criminal and immigration history , not on the location from which they are traveling nor on the jurisdiction wherein they reside . In most circumstances , Canadian citizens do not require visitor , business , transit or other visas to enter the United States , either from Canada or from other countries . There are , however , some exceptions to this situation . These exceptions ( and the visa category they require ) include : Treaty traders ( requires E Visa ) ; foreign citizen fiancé ( e ) ( K-1 Visa ) , as well as the fiancé ( e ) 's children ( K-2 Visa ) ; , A U.S. citizen 's foreign citizen spouse traveling to reside in the U.S. while awaiting final completion of the process of immigration ( K-3 Visa ) , as well as the spouse 's children ( K-4 Visa ) ; Spouses of lawful permanent residents ( V-1 Visas ) , as well as the spouse 's children who are traveling to reside in the U.S. while awaiting final completion of the process of immigration ( V-2 Visas ) ; Non-immigrants travelling to the United States for work ( Non-Immigrant Visas ) , including : Canadian government officials ( A Visas ) , if entering the U.S. for temporary or permanent assignment ; Officials and employees of international organizations ( G Visas ) , if entering the U.S. for temporary or permanent assignment ; and NATO officials , representatives , and employees , only if they are being assigned to the U.S. ( as opposed to an official trip ) . Furthermore , Canadians who have been removed from the United States or who have a criminal record , including for driving under the influence , will need to follow a separate set of procedures to enter the country . Source : <URL>
The official Mexican Customs website has <URL> document , which states aliens can temporarily import a car into Mexico for as long as their immigration status lasts . In your case , this would be until your FM3 visa expires . Quote : " Cuánto tiempo puede permanecer en México el vehículo importado ... el plazo que dure tu calidad migratoria " Also , the Mexican Ministry of Turism ( Secretaria de Turismo , SECTUR ) , provides <URL> , which on page 16 , section 3.2.2.1 , states : " Para ingresar un automóvil que sea de procedencia extranjera ( con placas distintas a las de México ) , se requiere contar con un permiso de Importación Temporal . Dicho permiso se obtiene en cualquier módulo de BANJERCITO ubicado en las aduanas y se otorga para los extranjeros , por el plazo que dure su calidad migratoria , incluyendo sus prórrogas y para los mexicanos , por 180 días dentro de un año , con la opción de entradas y salidas múltiples , siempre y cuando se cumplan con los siguientes requisitos ... " Which translates to : " To bring an alien car into the country , you need to have a Temporary Import permit , which you can get at any BANJERCITO desk at the customs office , and is granted to aliens , for the term that their immigration status lasts ... as long as you abide to the following requisites ... "
As far as I can tell , the rules regarding US passport issuance allow legal guardians to act in place of parents where necessary . This makes sense , as legal guardians , with the proper paperwork , are generally entitled to act as parents , and a regulation that prohibited guardians from doing so for passports would be impractical . <URL> gives the actual legal rules for passports for minors . The phrase " or legal guardian " is used throughout . ( b ) ( 2 ) , which talks about passports for 16 and 17 year olds , says " The passport authorizing officer may at any time require a minor 16 years of age and above to submit the notarized consent of a parent , a legal guardian , or a person in loco parentis to the issuance of the passport . " It seems that the consent of a legal guardian can substitute for that of a parent in this case .
Yes , you can leave the station . The period of validity is said to be two days on their official embassy sites in both the US and <URL> , so you should be okay leaving the next day . <URL>
If you are concerned about the care of dolphins , do n't go swimming with them . Whale and Dolphin Conservation have an article about the <URL> . Dolphins are very intelligent animals , in the wild they can travel great distances . If kept in confinement , are not able to live naturally , and travel and hunt as they would in the wild . Captive dolphins can suffer from a range of illnesses , and die at a much a younger age . Dolphins are captured from wild populations , separated from their family groups , with many killed in the process . Swimming with dolphins causes more issues - in captivity , they are not able to get away from people if they wanted , so can become stressed . They may behave aggressively - dolphins are wild animals , and can be rather large and strong , so may cause injuries to swimmers .
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
Per the <URL> , a " general visitor " ( with or without visa , depending on citizenship ) should not " live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or successive visits " . So if you already made several long stays and try to come back for several months , there might be a ( small ? ) risk that the border force officer checking your passport would suspect you are lying about the purpose of your stay in the UK and are actually living there illegally . I also remember reading about a limit of not more than six months in any twelve months but I do n't know if it 's a hard limit or just a rule of thumb and I ca n't find any official source for that . If that 's the case , traveling around March should be no problem , traveling in May would be more difficult ( if I understand your description correctly , at that point , you will have spent 8 months of the previous year in the UK ) . I am not a lawyer but I assume that formally , as in most countries , neither a proper visa ( if your situation made one necessary ) nor a previous visit would entitle you to enter the UK . Border officers will typically evaluate whether your fulfill the requirements for entry every time you cross the border , which means that every time you leave the country , you expose yourself to the risk of being refused entry , however small . In any case , if you are questioned at the border , anything you might provide to establish that you are a legitimate visitor ( details and documentation of where you stayed and will be staying , details of people you want to visit or things you want to do , name of places you intend to see , funds to support yourself , a return ticket to your country of residence , etc. ) might be helpful .
I also asked the Turkish airlines sales office and received the reply below : Puteti calatori doar cu cartea de identitate cu conditia sa nu iesiti din zona de tranzit . Buh Tk Office Translation : You can travel with just the identity card on the condition that you do n't exit the transit zone . Update following @phoog 's suggestion . I also asked the Turkish embassy in Romania and received a similar answer : Daca veti tranzita Turcia fara a parasi aria aeroportului nu aveti nevoie de paşaport . Daca veti parasi aria aeroportului aveti nevoie de paşaport valabil minim 6 luni . Translation : You do n't need a passport if you 'll transit in Turkey without leaving the airport . To leave the airport you need a passport valid for a minimum of 6 months .
Is it usual , no . Does it happen , yes . Baggage travels from the terminal to plane side in a variety of conveyances , some which are covered and protected from rain , some which are not . And unfortunately , there is really no covered area plane side where they could move the uncovered baggage cart to if it starts raining . While you may see the ramp staff hide under the wing during rains , safety rules often prohibit the tugs and baggage carts from going under the wing ( especially on smaller planes that would have hand loading ) . For the most part you probably need not worry about it , but it never hurts to consider how you are flying and through which cities . If your flights involve smaller aircraft ( 737 , 757 , A320 , RJ , prop planes , etc ) and you are flying through a city where frequent showers occur , then protecting things inside your bag ( especially those that might be damaged by water ) might be warranted . Otherwise , I would n't be too concerned .
end question
start question
Why are some non-NEXUS travellers sent through the NEXUS line at Pearson ?
The airport web site suggests you may be <URL> : A priority lane will be available for Nexus cardholders and airline guests with priority designations . NEXUS cardholders and airline guests with priority access may enter the U.S. Customs hall directly at any time by showing their boarding pass and/or valid Nexus card and U.S. Customs card . This may be because you have a membership with the airline that provides priority access to boarding and other services , because you are disabled , or whatever other reason the airline might designate you as a " priority " traveler . Such a designation would appear on your boarding pass .
I have been on flights a couple of times where the pilot made an announcement , but nothing more than that . Flying across the Equator in this day and age is a non-event , same as flying over the International Date Line or the Arctic Circle . While it might be cool to someone who does n't travel much , it is not unique enough to warrant a celebration ( especially not free booze ;-) . Back in the day , when planes did n't go as far and you had to hop from airstrip to airstrip refueling to reach Australia from Los Angeles , it was a big deal . But today planes do it in a single flight and the Equator is crisscrossed by a multitude of flights every day .
Since each of these countries would unilaterally decide whether they recognize Schengen visas and under which conditions , I do n't think it 's possible to find an official list anywhere . I am marking this answer as " community wiki " so that we can come up with a list : Bulgaria , Romania , Croatia and Cyprus ( all EU members ) have rules modelled on those of the Schengen area and allow holders of some types of Schengen visas to visit the country , see <URL> , <URL> and previous questions on this site , e.g. . <URL> Official sources are hard to come by but Albania apparently allow holders of multiple-entry Schengen visa who have already used their visa at least once to visit one of the countries of the Schengen Area , see <URL> and <URL> . Turkey provides some concessions to those that normally need visas . If you normally need a visa for Turkey , and you hold a Schengen visa - you may be able to avail the new electronic " e-visa " system . The list of countries whose citizens can avail this exemption <URL> . <URL> , multiple-entry Schengen visa holders can visit Bosnia and Herzegovina for 7 days . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Macedonia for 15 days ( with some caveats ) . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Serbia for 90 days . <URL> confirms that information . <URL> and <URL> , Mexico offers a visa exemption for 180 days to those holding a valid visa issued by " Canada , Japan , USA , United Kingdom or a Schengen Member State " ( this may be further restricted by nationality ) . <URL>
One of the few ( or rather the only ) explanation I can find on the " Set number " is from <URL> Another number which appears on the train is the " set number " . This is displayed at each end of the train to identify its duty in the timetable . The number is set up by the crew preparing the train for service and it is retained by that train as long as it works that particular path in the timetable for that day . It provides a useful means of quickly identifying trains and is used whenever reference made to particular service trains . So long story short it 's a train number like <URL> basically identifying the route the train is running today including line and schedule , though if you feel like a project you can take a look at <URL> to figure it out . <URL>
The CBP has a <URL> . Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) Note that they are not necessarily at all terminals though . <URL> . U.S. or Canadian citizens , U.S. green card holders , legal permanent residents , ESTA and visa-waiver holders may use one of the 50 self-service kiosks when arriving at IAH on international flights . All eligible foreign visitors must have entered the U.S. at least once prior .
I 'm far from being an expert in sailing , but being a native speaker helps when searching so this is what I came across : <URL> ( PDF , 24.4 MB ) CONTENTS Introduction Sail the Ionian Sea Sail around Peloponnese and Kythira Sail around Attica and Saronikos Gulf Sail through the Cyclades Sail through the Sporades Sail the North Aegean Sea Sail around the Dodecanese Sail around Crete Discover a variety of water sports activities Useful Information It 's not very detailed , but a good starting point I reckon . Enjoy your holiday !
Because it 's difficult to tell apart a bottle full water from a bottle full of a chemical like hydrogen peroxide that could be used to make liquid explosives . There was <URL> that apparently tried this in 2006 , and because " passenger convenience " will always lose out to " bureaucratic ass-covering " when it comes to security theater , <URL> . ( Unless they 're under 100ml , so yes , you can take a 100ml bottle of water on board ... if you can find one ! ) In Japan , they 've already got <URL> . These are increasingly being adopted by other countries , and once they 're widespread enough , the liquid silliness will hopefully end . Note that while you ca n't take a partly or completely filled > 100ml water bottle through security , it 's perfectly fine to take an empty bottle through security , and fill it up before you board the plane . Or you can buy a bottle once you 've passed security .
Do n't take it personally , that happens in other countries as well . It 's not common , but there are hostels in the US , Canada , and Europe that do n't allow people from their own country to stay there . So if it makes you feel any better , there are U.S. hostels that will happily accept you , but not a U.S. citizen . I ran into that once myself when I wanted to stay at a hostel here , so I know it is frustrating . The reasoning is some hostels are trying to create a particular social environment where you can interact with travelers from all different countries . It 's also a way to make sure guests really are people who are traveling , not just locals who need a place to crash , or someone who just arrived in town and is looking for temporary housing . At worse , some hostels that let anyone stay can end up looking more like a housing project or homeless shelter . It does solve that problem , but it is unfortunate that they also end up excluding people who really are visiting town from other parts of the country . I do n't think it 's a great policy , but that 's the reasoning behind it anyway .
Possibly . It 's not every passenger that has to , but you may , if : They ask you to do so , or Your shoes contain metal ( eg steel toed/capped shoes ) Source : <URL>
In theory , I think you could , but I would n't recommend trying . As far as I can determine , the TSA has taken no public position on the permissibility of leeches , and that is all that can be said definitively . But since this is an invitation to speculation , allow me to speculate . The official list of <URL> are mainly things that can be used as weapons , as well as liquids or gels of any kind in containers larger than 100mL . Food is not excluded from the liquid restriction , so do n't claim that they are for live bait or bird feed -- or for your famous river bottom stew -- as that will get you nowhere . In theory you could declare them as medicinal , as there are legitimate <URL> , but the uses are very limited ( e.g. post-surgery ) and I doubt you could find a medical professional who would write you a letter saying you must bring them on board . You could probably carry them in your checked luggage . And leeches are found on every inhabited continent , and probably not overly difficult to obtain at your destination . The most promising option , then , would be to declare them as pets . Leeches are a legitimate addition to an aquarium , and pets are exempt from the liquid restriction provided you can demonstrate that they are alive . For example , <URL> if they are in a clear spill-proof containers so that the screener can see them swimming around , thus demonstrating that the water does not contain a high concentration of explosives or toxins . This might be harder to demonstrate with leeches ; pick ones that are extra-wriggly . But airport screeners can still , at their discretion , exclude or require additional screening of other items which in their judgment could endanger passengers . Given the visceral reaction most people have even to the word leech , and given that it is in fact a bloodsucking worm which secretes a substance that promotes bleeding , it would not be unexpected for them to disallow them -- consider that past " threatening " items have infamously included applesauce , guppies , medical urostomy bags , and an <URL> . ( But not to soapbox ) . Incidentally , even if you do get your leeches through the TSA checkpoint , you still might not be allowed to take them on board an airplane . Airlines have their own policies on items permitted in the cabin ; for example , there is no TSA restriction on durian , but if a gate agent for Singapore Airlines sees ( or smells ) you with it in the SFO departure lounge , you wo n't be let through the gate . Similarly , airlines are generally okay with cats or rabbits in pet carriers , but generally not hamsters or snakes . How the cabin crew might react to your jar of leeches is anyone 's guess .
<URL> is the group that manages passenger travel within Germany , and is responsible for the managing , ticketing , servicing and running of all German Intercity-Express , EuroCity , Intercity and Regionalbahn trains , and many commuter-oriented urban Stadtschnellbahn ( generally abbreviated as S-Bahn ) networks within Germany . The group also handles the information and customer service side of the operation . Presumably as your train is running from Dijon , France to Basel , Switzerland , it may fall on a route not covered by DB Bahn . Yes , some of the other routes by its partner companies may be included , but there are competitors on the rail network as well , and there 's no requirement to have those included on their site . Indeed , from <URL> : The Deutsche Bahn 's site does n't show fares for most trains outside Germany and Austria .
There is no Terminal 2 . Terminals are assigned by airline , not by destination . There are divisions within each terminal for destination , but you start at the desk for your airline . Transat uses Terminal 3 . You can get this information for any airline from <URL> . If you are being driven to the airport by a paid professional ( taxi , shuttle bus etc ) , do n't tell them to take you to Terminal 3 . They might drop you at the wrong end or have to ask you more questions . Instead , tell them " Air Transat International " and they will take you to just the right place .
While I have n't been myself , I 've done some research so figured I may as well share . For tours and excursions : <URL> - desert safaris , and they describe a sea of sand stretching as far as the eye can see . They have half day , full day and custom trips - which could include camel safaris , or camping under the stars . <URL> - promote themselves as more environmentally-focused tourism . As for accommodation , you have n't really specified budget , medium or high : For budget - <URL> sounds the most fun and scenic , with " nice garden with trees and fire pit , where the staff will sit at night with guests . Roof terrace with a view of the oasis and Shali " ( review on Wikitravel ) For medium - <URL> - sounds pretty smart for good value , and has some exotic local foods on the menu - date omelet , lamb casserole or vegetarian tajin , each flavored with fresh herbs of the oasis . For deluxe - two amazing and different options - the <URL> - with no electricity , the rooms are softly lit with a dozen beeswax candles , and around the corner , the Tamazigh , a smaller hotel , with a spring-fed pool and some rooms made entirely of salt !
A few things I 'd suggest : Do n't spend every waking moment together . Maybe that means one of you does the modern art gallery while the other visits the ancient history museum , or maybe that you go round a gallery at different speeds and meet in a cafe at the end Make sure you both roughly agree on the expected costs and comfort levels in advance Be prepared to compromise Sometimes , go a little out of your comfort zone when doing something your friend really wants to Be honest when something does n't work out
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
So , the first thing to say is that you almost never want to use a regular sim card from outside of North America while you 're over there . The data roaming charges your home provider charges tend to be extreme ( Vodafone UK currently charges something like # 30/mb in the US , and Tor-Einar 's German provider in the comments charges almost $ 40/mb ) . For Europeans , this has actually got a bit worse recently - the recent changes to how much the networks are allowed to charge for roaming within the EU has led to many of them pushing up their ex-EU charges . If your friend is n't going to be over for very long , or is n't going to be using very much data , then their best bet is a roaming SIM . You 'll normally have to pay either a moderate fee to get the roaming SIM , or a small monthly fee ( different providers have different models ) , then when abroad you 'll have fairly cheap calls , texts and data . Generally it does n't matter where in the world you go , your calls/text/data will be a little bit more expensive than your home package charges at home , which is a tiny bit more than a local SIM card would charge you , but an order of magnitude cheaper than your regular phone roaming . The advantage of a roaming SIM is you get it once , put some credit onto it , then use it no matter where in the world you happen to be that week . No need to go buy a new sim , load credit onto that , lose credit when you leave etc. . Just pop the roaming SIM into your phone and you 're good to go ! ( I use <URL> , who are OK but not amazing , many other alternatives exist . TruPhone in the states charges 10p/minute for call , 10p per text and 20p/mb . They 're <URL> in Canada , at 36p/minute for calls , 30p per text , and whopping # 3/mb . Even with those higher prices , they 're still an order of magnitude cheaper than Vodafone UK 's roaming costs ! ) If you 're going to be in a country for getting on for a month , or you 're planning to make a lot of calls / data charges , then the slight premium you pay on a roaming SIM adds up . In that case , you 'll want to buy a local Pay-As-You-Go / Pre-Pay ( names vary between countries ) SIM , chuck some credit on it , and use that . If you 're going to do a lot of data , it 's normally worth getting a pre-pay data bundle ( where you buy the data up-front ) , as that 's almost always cheaper than paying one MB at a time . You might think that you could buy a PAYG sim in either Canada or the US , and use it in the other . While technically it will work , the costs for roaming into the other country will be almost as bad as the roaming costs on your home phone , so you wo n't want to do it ! You may find <URL> from last year helpful
<URL> Non-Muslims are strictly prohibited from entering the city of Mecca . Road signs to guide non-Muslims are provided . The minimum penalty is deportation from the country . Documentation will be checked upon entry and anyone not showing proof of being Muslim will be refused entry . As a solitary exception , the Mecca bus terminal ( outside city limits ) is open to all . More : If you remain on the main highway , there is a police checkpoint just after the exit , where non-Muslims are kept out of the holy city . Actually this is decision of Allah and he stated in Quran : " Oh you who believe ! Truly the idolaters are unclean ; so let them not , after this year , approach the Sacred Mosque "
I learnt this the hard way when I was kid because I carried felt tips once on a flight ( for drawing ) and had them leak . They were the thinner type of felt tips used for colouring though , so not sure whether this affects the thicker kind of permanent marker yours seems to be - but I assume some other products may be affected the same way due to cabin pressure . Since luggage compartments on aircraft are n't pressurised at sea level either , I 'm assuming the same would be true regardless of whether you take it in cabin or in checked luggage . ( I was also carrying fountain pens on that flight . Yes , it was nasty . )
I 'm not aware of any official statistics but as far as I remember it took me about 30 minutes . The airport is small and did n't look very busy but I arrived at 2:00 am so I 'm not quite sure if it 's going to be more crowded during daytime . You need to compile an entry paper and pay a fee ( about $ 50 now for a single entry ) .
No you do n't . You can transfer to other terminals and exit there . However , you must be travelling with hand luggage only , otherwise you will have to return to the original terminal land-side to collect your luggage , which would be difficult as you would need to get past customs to collect it . Here 's an <URL> on flytalk . One of the quirks of the airside transfer buses and the flight connection areas in each terminal is that you can arrive on an INT flight at T5 but cross the UK border at another terminal . In fact you can also do this in reverse , so arrive on an INT at T3 for example , and cross the UK border at T5 . Whilst this is not really recommended normally , you may wish to do this if you have your car or left luggage at another terminal or you find the UK border at the terminal you arrive at to be very busy .
end question
start question
Visiting the Very Large Telescope ( VLT ) in Chile ?
A group of us went to Chile back in 2010 , and one of my friends split off from us to visit it for a few days . It 's only open one weekend a month , from memory , but he thought it was brilliant , and if I return to Chile I 'd be very keen to try and get there . At the time , he had tried written/online contacts , but eventually called them from when we were in an internet cafe in Calama , Chile , and got hold of them then . So yes , then at least , the best way was to call them - they spoke English , and were very helpful on the phone . EDIT - you asked how far in advance , the open day was on the weekend ( Sat or Sun , I forget ) and he called then on the Wednesday afternoon beforehand , from memory . EDIT : <URL>
Considering you are a Greece passport holder you can simply hop on a plane and go to Chile for a stay of up to 90 days . Greece nationals do not need a visa if they intend to visit Chile for less than 90 days . Kindly make sure your passport is at least 90 days till expiry , prefer to be 6 months . resourceful links : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you want to clear any confusions you can call the embassy @ 202-785-1746
Daytime temperatures are around 10-20 ° C which seems good for hiking ( up to 23 ° C in Tetovo ) . Nighttime temperatures can drop down to 0-5 ° C . You could get some rain and thunderstorms during a day but also few sunny days in a row ... If you go hiking for a week in April/May , you are pretty likely to get 1 to 3 days with some rain . Temperatures source : <URL>
The most common rules ( may vary of course ) : you have to remove your shoes . men : trousers , not shorts women : long skirt ( or trousers ) women : shoulder and arms can not be exposed women : scarf ( sometimes )
The Queensbridge Projects are located in Long Island City , and this means you can communicate directly with the cognizant community board for travel advice and other matters arising in that area . The board is called , " Community Board 1 " , and their contact details are Conveniently , they have an email and will be able to provide you with the best times and routes to use through the Projects . With fortune , they may be able to connect you with a local ' guide ' who can accompany you . The Mayor 's will be able to put you further in touch for the other Projects in NYC you want to visit . Source <URL>
As a native Londoner : The weather in the UK is notoriously variable , so the only way to know for sure is to check nearer the time . But it 's likely to be around freezing , maybe as low as -10 C or as high as +10 C. I would certainly bring some warm clothes . Snow is possible , but does n't happen every year . If the weather is very cold or snowy , prepare for potential public transport delays . London is normally dressed up for Christmas , yes . You should find Piccadilly Circus/Oxford Street in particular will have Christmas decorations up . Depending on how close it is to Christmas , prepare for potential crowding in some popular tourist areas ( e.g. Oxford Street is often busy ) . London has a lovely atmosphere around Christmas , though . Hope you enjoy your trip ! Like all enormous cities , plenty will be happening . <URL> is a good place to look for events / restaurants / etc. .
Most North Korean visas are issued on <URL> , not in your passport , and are thus not a problem . Likewise , on entry and exit , they will stamp the paper and not your passport . Even if you do get a visa in your passport , as far as I 'm aware no country has a policy of actually refusing entry to people who have visited North Korea ; certainly neither Japan nor South Korea do , even though they 're technically at war . It certainly is the kind of thing you may expect to get a question or two over though .
The SEEQ cards cost either $ 79 ( 3 days ) or $ 129 ( 5 days ) , and they basically offer 3 things : 2 one-way trips on the <URL> 3-5 days of unlimited travel on other <URL> services <URL> at various retailers Realistically , most of the " discounts " listed appear to be things that you 'd expect to find in the free tourist guides/maps/etc available at the airport or tourist information centers - so the real value there is probably minimal . The value of the 3-5 days of unlimited travel will obviously depend on how much you intent to use public transport , but I suspect you 'd have trouble running up a transit bill of ~ $ 25 per day every day , unless you intend to use a LOT of public transport ! The Airtrain component is the interesting part here . Presuming you are intending to use AirTrain both to and from the airport , then this alone could save you anywhere between $ 26 ( pre-paid AirTrain return to/from the Brisbane CBD ) and $ 68 ( return to/from Varsity Lakes on the Gold Coast ) . So clearly there 's no single answer as to whether it 's worth the money or not - it will depend entirely on your expected travel on TransLink services . If you 're planning to catch the Airtrain , AND have at least one/two longer train trips ( such as down to the Gold Coast stations ) then it may be worth the money . If you 're just intending a few short trips around Brisbane itself - even if you 're also planning on catching the AirTrain - then it 's probably not worth the asking price .
It 's actually very simple , there are no complex rules on how to keep time , what counts or not , or anything like that . Each time you cross an external border , you should get a stamp with a date on it . The day you got an entry stamp , the day you got an exit stamp and every day between them count as one day towards the 90-day limit . So if you enter and leave immediately , or during the same calendar day , it counts as one day , whether it 's a day trip , en errand to run , a layover or what not . In fact , if you enter 1 hour before midnight and leave 2 hours later , then your passport would show two days of stay in the Schengen area . On the other hand , if you can transit without leaving the transit lounge / " international " area of the airport ( and major European airports are set up to allow that in many cases ) , it does n't matter . You wo n't ( need to ) go through an official border check or be admitted to the Schengen area and wo n't get a stamp so there is no need to count days .
Well the closest decent-sized town to all of this is Lhasa . There is rain there of about 500mm ( 20 inches ) annually , but most of that is in <URL> . As such , for warmer months and to avoid the weather , May is the peak tourist season . <URL> it indicates that in May , the average precipitation is 1.1 inches ( 26mm ) in May . So next to nothing really , you 'd be unlucky to get a lot of rain , if at all during the day . The average temperatures according to that are from a low of 5C to average high of 19C , so potentially even better than you thought ;)
Getting a B1/B2 would easily cover both your needs and makes more sense in your case . Supplying more information would also improve your chances of getting that visa .
The issue comes up often and unfortunately , there is no perfect solution for this scenario . A multiple-entry visa would of course be a good one but those are mostly intended for trusted travellers who have been to the Schengen area before and have a reason to visit the same country repeatedly . You can always ask but you ca n't really make sure you will get one . If you were planning a single trip with several destinations , you should apply to the country that will be your main destination ( e.g. where you spend the most time ) , the regulation is very clear on that . But in this case , you are really doing two distinct trips and there are no guarantees that either consulate would be willing to issue a visa covering both . If you have the time and money for it , you could also spend the time between June 12 and June 23 in either Austria or Italy . You would then have a single trip with a clear main destination and could apply for a single-entry visa accordingly . For two distinct trips , the most straightforward approach would be to apply for a visa for the first trip , use it , come back to your country of residence and only then apply for a visa for the second trip . If you still have all the documents from the first application and you can show that you used the first visa correctly ( i.e. you did n't cheat ) , getting another one should be very easy . But 10 days is a short time to get a visa ( although if everything else fails , it 's not necessarily impossible so keep that as a back-up solution ) . You could also apply for both visas in advance ( in April-May ) , starting with Austria and then Italy . My understanding is that as long as they do n't overlap , it should be possible for the Italian consulate to issue a visa even before you used your Austrian visa . You would need to pay twice of course but you would otherwise be certain to be able travel as you wish . What you need to avoid is getting something like a single-entry Austrian visa valid for the whole month of June because it would not be enough for your trips but would prevent you from applying for another visa from Italy before using the Austrian one . Another solution in your case would be applying to Italy first , as soon as possible . If you are lucky , they might issue a multiple-entry or two-entry visa valid for June-July , and you are set . If they only give you a single-entry visa valid from June 23rd , you could still apply for another single-entry visa from Austria to cover the first trip . And if they decline to process the application , you still have time to lodge another one with either Italy or Austria and you have lost nothing ( in the case , the consulate should refund the application fee and return the documents ) . Whatever you do , you can always write a cover letter explaining your situation and join it to the application . Hopefully it will help the consular officer understand the problem and issue what you need . Also make sure to double-check all the documents and to have a very strong application . If you have everything ready , it will be easy to resubmit it to the other consulate if needed and ensure it will processed in a timely manner . Finally , if you get an Italian visa , be aware that the Austrian border guards might ask you about it . If they ask , simply explain why you did it this way and have all documents pertaining to your Italian trip with you , if they want to see them .
Telling the truth that your are married is correct and after giving the invitation letter and salary certificates . I do n't think there wont be any issue at all . If possible , if you have marriage certificate , there are no chances to question your wife anything thereafter .
Every ( tourist ) hostel in the old town of Cartagena in Colombia can arrange a taxi for you at any time . I would think any hotel can as well . If you 're on your own , you could try your best at calling a taxi company and arranging a pickup . But , asking for help at one of the tourist offices would probably be a better bet . Unless your Spanish is good . If you are comfortable walking through the old town in the middle of the night , taxis are waiting for rides on the eastern corner of the old town , near <URL> . I 've never been to the airport in Cartagena , but considering it 's not a small town , I would think that aiming for 4AM would not be a bad idea . But , that 's speculation .
It seems that the blog entry you linked is outdated ( 2012 ) , as a newer similar <URL> simply does not list the tennis rackets as a prohibited item onboard while it does list the other items . <URL> has the most recent policies , which clearly allows it . Anyway , here is a list of some of the airlines policies regarding tennis racquets , they would have not allowed them if they were not allowed by TSA : Delta : Allowed , check <URL> , under " Fragile , Bulky &amp; Other Items " . United : Allowed ( one item only ) , check the " Tennis " section in the <URL> . JetBlue : : Allowed ( counted as a carry-on piece ) , check the <URL> . American Airlines : : Allowed , check the <URL> . Bear in mind that most ( if not all ) airlines will count it as a carry-on baggage , so if your carry-on allowance is one piece , then the racquet will use that , you will need to pay some $ if you are carrying a bag with you along with it .
Indian immigration officials only really care about yellow fever vaccination certificates if you have travelled or were in transit within past week in <URL> . This is a prerequisite for clearing immigration checkpoints so do n't ignore it ; albeit this is something that will affect only a small set of travellers to India as there are n't many direct flights from South America or Africa . . World Health Organisation also only lists information about malaria and yellow fever . <URL> : Courses or boosters usually advised : diphtheria ; tetanus ; poliomyelitis ; hepatitis A ; typhoid ( polio not required for Andaman and Nicobar islands ) . Vaccines sometimes advised : hepatitis B ; rabies ; Japanese encephalitis ; cholera . Assuming you have followed your country 's standard immunisation course , whether you really need a vaccination depends . If you 're going for a couple of days or a short 1-2 week trip , you probably do n't need any of these . For longer term travellers : If you plan to travel by trains or local public transport , I 'd highly recommend getting a tetanus booster . Especially on public buses many surfaces are made of sheet metal and chances are that if it 's old , it 's going to have sharp corners you might jab yourself on . This is probably erring too much on the side of caution ; still , you 're better off getting one than panicking once you 're on the road and not near a major city . Any of the water-borne disease vaccinations such as cholera , typhoid , hepatitis A/B : this really depends . Some travellers are made of sterner stuff and can walk away with <URL> at worst . Others are not - I 've contracted typhoid twice in India , for instance ( not when travelling though , grew up there ) . This is a call you need to take . If you plan to travel a lot to semi-urban/rural areas , then this will be sensible precaution to take . Also , if you plan to travel for a longer term but have n't had time yet to get your vaccinations before flying in , consider getting vaccinated in India . You 'll probably fly into a major city like Delhi , Mumbai , Bangalore , Hyderabad , Chennai , or Kolkata and the standard of healthcare is generally pretty good in all these cities . Cost of private outpatient healthcare is relatively very cheap in India and you can just walk in without an appointment and get your vaccinations for a fraction of the cost of getting it in your home country . Most private clinics and practices have English-speaking staff and good standards of quality control . If pressed for ideas , just search online for ' Apollo Clinic ' or ' Max Medicentre ' in the particular city you 're staying in - these are well-known private clinic chains . ( Prices are slightly higher than usual at these chain private clinics . )
Living in Costa Rica is obviously really , really cheap . Immigration will accept a wallet full of Euros as " proof of sufficient funds " - any decent bank will have no problem changing Euros , US Dollars or Pounds for Colones . Yuan , Rials , Baht and other currencies not printed in the roman alphabet are less likely . The taxi driver wo n't take Euros , but the money exchange counter at any international airport serving Central America can give you enough local money to get you through the weekend . At the usual extortionary rates of course . You could always take a couple of hundred US dollars , but get $ 10s or $ 20s . US$ 100 are frequently counterfeited , and in that part of the world will likely set off the drug detector .
Yes there are . There are several bus lines that I could find online though I could only find 1 that provides cross border routes : <URL> If you look at their schedule you will find that they have a bus from <URL> and a connecting bus from Punta Arenas to Puerto Natales though I ca n't find the trip duration so it is possible that you may have to spend the night at Puerto Natales .
There is only one place designated for visitors inside the walls of the Vatican , the Domus Sanctae Marthae ( Casa Santa Marta ) . But its purpose is to lodge ecclesiastical personnel serving at the Secretariat of State and , as far as possible , at other Dicasteries of the Roman Curia , as well as to cardinals and bishops visiting Vatican City to see the Pope or to participate in events and meetings organized by the Holy See . <URL> and in particular , the cardinal electors during a papal conclave . In other words , being invited to stay here as a lay person not on official business would be something extraordinary . You might petition your prelate to recommend you for an invitation , but I think receiving one would be akin to receiving an invitation to stay at Buckingham Palace or the Blair House . There are various options very close to the Vatican , but there will be tradeoffs . There are a couple of accessible full-service hotels like the Residenza Paolo VI and the Palazzo Cardinal Cesi within a block or two of St. Peter 's Square , but prices seem to be high . As pilgrims , you may prefer a guesthouse operated by a religious order ( mostly convents ) , of which there are many in the city . The website <URL> , after the guidebook of the same name , includes selected recommendations for convent stays . A more complete and up-to-date website to check would be <URL> , though the English content is sparse . But to make arrangements directly , you 'll probably need someone who speaks Italian , so a site like <URL> or <URL> might be well worth the booking fee . Another tradeoff is that these are not hotels . The accommodations are simple , and the establishments offer limited services . They mostly impose curfews and early checkouts . The staff you meet may only speak Italian . They may not be accessible for the mobility-impaired . And naturally , the closer the amenities one is to that of a hotel or inn , the closer in price to a hotel or inn you may expect to pay . The extraterritorial properties of the Vatican are mostly individual buildings , and I do not believe it is possible for a tourist to stay overnight in any of them .
The region has a very long tradition of international trade , and it 's a cornerstone of the economy . Taxes and tariffs are low , so many things are indeed cheaper . Additionally , the sheer number of shopping opportunities is an attraction in itself . Dubai has one of the world 's <URL> ( among 50 others ) , one of the <URL> , and even a special <URL> .
end question
start question
Changing EasyJet reservation : what happens to my Extra Legroom surcharge ?
From Easyjet on <URL> ' If you 've already selected seats , these will automatically be transferred to your new flight so no worries . ( 1/2 ) If the seats you chose are no longer available , we 'll allocate the closest match we can find . Any issue , please DM . Anna <URL> Hope this helps .
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
No and no . The address on the passport is a convenience , acting as proof of address and so the passport can ( in theory , anyway ) be returned to you if you lose it . It does not have to be up to date . The <URL> does not explicitly state this , but a number of the questions like Q65 say things like " Proof of Present Address ( if address is different from the one mentioned on passport ) " , which clearly implies that it 's OK to have an old address in your passport .
I found some answers at their website at <URL> : They only have self-service kiosks in Riga : Currently available to our passengers travelling from Riga airport , self-check-in kiosks allow you to check in at the airport free of charge . Also , they do have a 10 EUR airport check-in fee , but that <URL> " passengers who have already checked in online , via mobile check-in or at a self service check-in kiosk " . They <URL> that they 'll print it for free as long as you have checked in online : Hello ! We 're sorry for late response . If you 've checked in online , you can get a boarding pass at the check-in desk free of charge . Anyway , it looks like their <URL> is a better option if you happen to be in possession of a mobile phone , as you avoid queuing at the check-in desk : A : With airBaltic mobile check-in you will save time and money , escape queues and the EUR 10 check-in fee at the airport . It gives you flexibility and the possibility to check in on your way to the airport . Please pay attention to the check-in deadline . You enter booking ref and surname ( whether or not you 've already done online check-in ) and get a " mobile boarding pass " with QR code to show at the gate : Edit : Last weekend I used the mobile boarding pass on four separate airBaltic flights , so I can confirm that there is no need to print anything by yourself .
You will have to go through passport control as you are exiting the Schengen zone . This in and of itself can easily soak up the 1:40 that you have available to you . Not to mention the time it takes to cover the distance from gates A - > Terminal Lobby - > Passport Control - > C - > Gate 15 Now the good news is that everyone at the airport will know which flights are departing and you will most likely be put on a priority queue if there is a long line at immigration ( this is really , your only real cause of concern ) . Your luggage will be transferred automatically , as you are on one ticket . Personally , 1:40 is a bit tight for my liking - but as the airline has booked you the itinerary , it is their responsibility to make sure you reach your destination . Lets assume the worse case scenario that your flight is delayed in-bound , and there is a long queue at immigration , and by the time you clear all that and find your way to the gate , the flight has departed . Before any of that happens though : You 'll notice people running around yelling the flight number and destination of your flight . You 'll see someone that is minding the queue at immigration , and they will be calling for people with flights close to departure . Your name may be called as well . Once the flight has departed : a. Lufthansa will arrange to put you on the next available flight . b. Depending on how long the delay is to your next flight ; you may be provided compensation . So , the worse that will happen is that you will be bumped to a later flight along with some compensation .
EasyJet 's policy is that you have an allowed number of bags and an allowed weight . As long as each bag is n't too heavy , you can distribute the weight between the bags however you wish . This <URL> on their site explicitly says you can distribute weight between two bags ( when you 're allowed to carry two bags ) ; their <URL> says that an individual bag ca n't exceed 32kg . So you can take 1x12kg + 1x28kg instead of 2x20kg . You might have to drop the heavier bag at a different baggage drop but they 'll tell you that when you check in .
<URL> Former London flight attendant Mrs Meho said there 's little cabin crew can do with a corpse , so the priority is to place the body out of sight . " We make the body comfortable , " Mrs Meho said . " Either that means taking it somewhere discreet or lying the body flat and covering with a blanket . If there are not seats we ' prop ' the body up . " " We can place them ( bodies ) anywhere , but not a lavatory , " Sharon said . " We are also given the option of putting an oxygen mask on the person and simply saying they did n't feel well , even if we were sure they had gone to meet their maker . "
I have looked into this in the past and it 's very disappointing how insecure this functionality is in general . The only specific additional security I could find was the Amadeus <URL> which states this : PNR Security Amadeus individual pnr security allows you to set up special security rules so that a pnr can be accessed by one or several other offices . The PNR security functions may allow access to a PNR even when there are no other special agreements in place and can override agreements that are contained in the current security tables . PNR security allows you to share PNR viewing and/or updating capabilities , without changing PNR accordingly . Creating a pnr security element The individual pnr security element is an un-numbered and can only be created by the responsible office . R = For read only access : it is possible to view the pnr , but no updates are allowed . In this case the agent is given an error message at the time any pnr update entry is attempted . B = For both read and write access : full pnr update is allowed , except for change of ownership . N = For no access : the office id specified can not retrieve this PNR via extended security agreements . ( This overrides EOS ) Office IDs can include wildcards . To enable this , it sounds like you 'd have to book via a trusted travel agent who could set these specific GDS parameters for your PNR .
You might not have a seat . In European trains , the seat reservation is independent from the train pass . Some trains require a seat reservation ( TGVs in France ) but not all . In German countries ( at least Germany and Austria ) it is possible to buy a train ticket and then a seat ticket . You can also buy it anytime ( as long as there are seats left ) and the price is always the same ( apparently 3-3 ,5 $ in Austria ) In practice , what will happen if you do n't pay for the seat is that you 're gon na go through the coaches and search for a free seat . In Austria , it apparently is written on the seat whether it is reserved . Most of the time you 'll find a seat , since trains have hundreds of seats , but you might look for some time . For long-distance trains ( like ICEs across Germany ) the seat will be used by several passengers throughout the trip so you might need to switch seat if it is reserved for a short part of the trip . Another important parameter is peak hours . I suppose the train will be pretty full then . Especially on Railjet trains , that are apparently operating on the main lines of Austrian network . For more details : <URL>
I 've carried a laptop into Shanghai probably 20 times by now . Never have they opened a single bag or even known I was carrying it . Only once has customs shown any interest in our baggage and that was long ago -- I was wheeling out a cart piled with 4 suitcases ( but no carryons ) and there was n't anyone else going out at the time . Unusual -- it drew the interest of a customs guy . The entry stamp two days earlier drew more interest . He started running the bags through his x-ray when my wife caught up ( she was taking forever talking to the baggage people , I finally headed out to get her to quit talking ) and explained we were picking up our bags the airline left behind and that was the end of it . ( I left the explanation to her as she 's a native speaker . ) On the other hand 6 years ago she tripped a nuke scanner at customs and nobody showed up . We waited a bit and finally walked on out .
" 3 Hours " is a very common recommendation for international flights at many airports around the world - and it 's almost always far more time that you need . Airlines like to get passengers to the airport early , not only because it gives more buffer if there are any problems , but also as it spreads out the " rush " period before the flight - you can imagine what the check-in counter would be like if the entire plane turned up exactly 90 minutes before the flight ! As long as you are at the airport 2 hours before you will have plenty of time ( even 60 minutes is enough at some airports ! ) . Given you 're traveling with a young child and in an area you 're not familiar with I would n't recommend cutting it any more fine than that . That 's not to say that planning to catch the 5:52 am train is n't a good idea - obviously the earlier you get there the less chance of something going wrong . As far as easing your worries , the best recommendation I can make is to make sure that you 've got multiple alarms set for the early start . An alarm on your phone , one on the in-room clock , and a wake-up call from the front desk would n't be overkill in a situation like this , and means that if one does fail for some reason ( phone hangs , power outage in the room , etc ) you 'll still have something to wake you up ! Check with the front-desk in advance for any hints on getting to the train station - perhaps the entrance nearest the hotel is n't open until 7am , or before 6am you ca n't buy tickets from the ticket booth , etc. . But most of all , do n't panic ! If you plan on the 5:52 am train as you are , then you 've got some buffer in case of problems . Short of something major happening , you 'll make it easily ! And you can always sleep on the plane :)
The short version is that <URL> . If your parents come to the US and incur massive medical bills , the hospital/insurance company can try to claim the back from the parents , but not you . And if your parents have no assets in the United States , it will generally be difficult to impossible to enforce payment of those debts overseas . Travel insurance is generally sold as a standalone product , where the insurance company takes on all the risk and does not require any sort of co-signed or guarantor . Since your parents apparently arranged their own insurance , there 's no way you could have accrued any legal liability for it . One potential exception : If your parents should happen to die in the United States , there is a possibility that you would be held responsible for their medical bills under <URL> laws , but these vary from state to state and are <URL> unless there 's evidence of ill will ( eg . you siphoning your parents ' bank accounts dry ) . Due to the ridiculous cost of medical treatment in the US , travel insurance to the US is usually expensive , doubly so if you are elderly . So in your shoes , I would be more concerned with checking that the coverage is adequate . Otherwise there is a low but non-zero risk of your parents being refused admission to a hospital , especially if it 's not directly life-threatening medical emergency .
The check-in desk never checks the passport number , so he 's good to go . Source : flew with Turkish after getting a new passport .
Generally , if you have a through booking , then if you miss the flight because of the airline 's fault then you become their problem . This does n't mean you 'll automatically get put on the next flight . You 'll need to talk to the airline and ask for help , and ask for re-booking . If the next flight has spare seats , then all should be well . Most likely though , you 'll get put on standby for the next flight , and hopefully will make the next one or the one after . As it 's the airline 's fault , you should get meal vouchers , help with a hotel if needed etc. ( Note - the exact level of help you get depends on the jurisdiction you 're in , and the home jurisdiction of the airline ) However , if you miss the connecting flight because of your own fault ( eg you fall asleep while waiting near the gate ) , then it 's probably no different to if you have two independent bookings ...
Probably , but with care Although the EU security regulations do n't prohibit spare batteries , there are separate safety restrictions . <URL> state that : Spare batteries < 100Wh are permitted in cabin baggage , but not in the hold . You can only carry two spare batteries between 100-160 Wh , again only in the cabin . Batteries over 160Wh are not permitted . In all cases , each battery must either be in a separate plastic bag , or have its terminals covered to prevent a short circuit . The <URL> for example are a little more restrictive , requiring airline approval for anything between 100-160Wh . Not sure whether any EU member states have similarly strict guidelines . For comparison , a laptop battery is typically less than 100Wh
Try a credit union . Many of them boast surcharge-free ATMs . Lots of smaller banks do n't collect surcharges either . Those that do n't often will have a big sign saying so near the ATM . The Credit Union National Association , the Independent Community Bankers Association and The Co-Op Network all have ATM locators on their Web sites . Ask for cash-back when you use your ATM card at a grocery store . This service is free at many stores . If you 're going through San Francisco , residents recently voted to ban ATM fees . So grab some cash while you 're there ;) <URL> Of course this means there are still SOME out there ! ( From same survey ) the average fee is $ 2.33 . So at the least , try and beat that target ;)
From Easyjet on <URL> ' If you 've already selected seats , these will automatically be transferred to your new flight so no worries . ( 1/2 ) If the seats you chose are no longer available , we 'll allocate the closest match we can find . Any issue , please DM . Anna <URL> Hope this helps .
No , it 's fine . Unused visas are common for business travellers ( I have several in my passports ) , and are not considered a problem for future visa applications , at Immigration , etc. .
I can not guarantee it will be work in every scenario , but at least in this case , I found an answer . It appears sometime after ticketing , the American Airlines number will work in the BA <URL> page , as suggested by IKeelYou - somewhat . I tried it again this morning and it gave me an error , stating that it could n't find the reservation , but pre-populated the reservation number box on the error page with a different reservation code . I tried this reservation code from the MMB page , and lo and behold - my reservation ! Seems like BA 's website needs some bug-fixing , but I do at least have access now .
The simple answer is , it depends ! Each airline , and even sometimes each airport , will have different rules about what is and is not allowed . As a general rule , most airlines will NOT automatically check your luggage through for an overnight connection . You will normally need collect your luggage when you land , and re-check it the following morning . This is normally a good thing as it allows you access to your luggage for your overnight stay . However this is not true for all airlines - some WILL check your luggage through , especially for short overnight stays ( eg , arrive 11:30 pm , depart 5:30 am ) . The only way to find out exactly what they are going to do is to ask the airline , and even then you might find that when you get to the airport they proceed to do something different anyway ! If you want access to your luggage at the stopover point then basically all airlines will honor such a request at check-in . This is called " short-checking " , and although not all airlines will do it in a general sense , they all should for an overnight layover . If you want them to keep your luggage overnight , then it may be a bit more of a struggle . Some airlines , and even some airports , have policies that they simply will not do this - so whilst you can ask , be ready for a refusal . The one time you may be able to talk them into doing this where they otherwise refuse is if you are not able to go through passport control at the connecting country ( eg , you do n't have a visa ) , in which case you will not be able collect your luggage - in this case they may be more willing to check it all the way through , however I would not bet on this always being successful .
end question
start question
Is there a point where it would make more financial sense to charter a flight than to buy tickets ?
Yes , there is , and yes , airlines do have a group discount . This depends on a lot of factors however . I know dive resorts who charter one whole airplane every 5 days since they change the complete occupancy of their quite remote resort each time . You will never know until you ask though since the availability of open seats in regular airplanes is a main driving factor for the price .
You are better off asking a doctor this . A child often needs medication labelled for children and it 's important you do not give him an adult dosage . Does your child have the flu ? Or are you trying to pack medication ' just in case ' ? If he has a runny nose I would recommend a simple salt based nose spray , if he has no complications at all and you are just trying to prepare , do n't bother .
There are some <URL> ( common but <URL> ) that the lower air pressure ( and humidity ) in a plane 's cabin increases the risk of thrombosis . Another factor is that buses usually have toilet breaks every couple of hours , which gives everyone an opportunity to stretch their legs - and people are more likely to make use of these opportunities than to do it regularly in a plane because there is more room and they 're reminded and encouraged by the bus stopping and lots of others getting off .
Things to consider : data roaming is very expensive you 're charged for incoming calls in roaming you 're charged local cost + roaming surcharge for outgoing If you have a sim-free second phone , your best option is to buy local sim . Pay-as-you-go ( called pre-paid here ) are very popular and inexpensive in Poland . You can get them as low as 5PLN ( $ 1.60 CAD ) . You can get 1GB data package for 25PLN ( $ 8.10 CAD ) . Comparison of current offers : <URL> Columns are different offers from various operators . Row groups : first 4 - price per minute to different networks ( " bezpłatnie " = free ) . SMS in the same network , different network , MMS , data w/o data package validity of the credit in days ( outgoing/incoming , depending on the credit you bought , eg . with 5zł " Play na kartę " starter you can make calls for 5 days and receive calls for 65 days before you have to recharge more credit , " rok " = " a year " ) extra packages ( most likely not interesting for you , except data packages ) .
Some better hostels actually do have curtains around their bunk bed , both top and bottom , but they are not many of there . Same for couchettes , some night trains have curtains but again that 's not the norm . I doubt that there is anything purpose built on the market . I think it would also be pain to carry such a thing with you all the time . I sometimes used towels or blankets borrowed from the hostel and just stuck the top end under the mattress of the top bunk . Of course this is much easier if you have the bottom bunk . I also used my mosquito net sometimes , it gives a little bit of privacy .
Hope it 's okay I answer my own question as it might be useful to others but I tried an ATM at Scotiabank and I was able to withdraw $ 1000 . Not sure if it 's that particular ATM or just that bank 's machines but years earlier I renember being able to withdraw a large amount from SB as well . Perhaps RBC and CIBC save their bills for everyone so the machines do n't go empty but Scotiabank does n't care ?
There is a related question <URL> however your situation is slightly different . You are looking to short-check one bag to Lisbon . As the related post says , airlines are often reluctant to do this as they wish to ensure that you are flying the itinerary as sold . People who request to short-check bags are sometimes attempting to take advantages of fare discrepencies to bypass the airline 's revenue management , and many airlines have instituted policies to prevent it . In your case , it is obvious that short-checking only one bag would not allow you to leave the airport at LIS . If the airline personnel are logical , they should understand this and tag only one bag to ORY and one to LIS . Technically , this is entirely possible . Update : I contacted TAP and they said all you need to do is inform their staff at check-in .
The best option is to buy a " Trampoline " ticket on Lille - Kortrijk . This ticket costs 8 Euro and is valid the whole day on all trains ( both ways ) on the Lille - Kortrijk route . <URL> You can buy this at the ticket office , or from the ticket vending machines . Trying to do it all using " local " transport will make the trip a lot longer , and will unlikely be cheaper than the 8 euro Trampoline ticket . On weekends SNCF also offers Trampoline tickets to other destinations in Belgium . They 're a bit more expensive , but still good deals .
I think BA are pretty good with baggage - I fly with them quite a bit and I 've certainly never had any problems . ( They did have some major problems the first few weeks after T5 opened , but those are all now sorted and luggage generally works very well at T5 now ) There can always be problems though , so there are two things you should always do when travelling with checked luggage . The first is have travel insurance with decent delayed/lost baggage cover . This will mean that if your luggage is delayed , you 'll have some cash with which to buy necessities . ( The airline may cover some things , but usually not as much as a decent travel insurance policy will ) . Secondly , always take one set of underwear and a clean top in your carry-on . That way , if your luggage is delayed , you 've still got some clean clothes to wear the next day while you wait / go buy some other clothes . If there are two of you travelling , do n't pack exclusively " his " and " hers " ( or hers 'n hers ) suitcases . Put a couple of changes of clothes into the other person 's suitcase . That way , if one of you finds your bag delayed for 24 hours , you 've got some stuff . Otherwise , try to avoid very tight connections . Tight connections are often the source of delayed bags , because you can often run from one gate to another much faster than your bags can get offloaded , sorted and re-loaded . Things around the MCT are problematic in the events of delays , so be extra careful at busy / weather prone / delay prone airports . Finally , make sure your bags are in good condition , and do n't have things that could get eaten by machinery ( wrap them if they do ) . A suitcase with bits hanging off that 's on its last legs is much less likely to survive a problem than one in good condition ! For your case , book your flights as a single ticket ( it 's all oneworld so that should n't be an issue ) , that way if one flight is delayed there wo n't be any issues with getting put for free onto a later flight + receiving support ( food , overnight accommodation etc ) if needed . Most BA flights use T5 at Heathrow , CX use T3 , so both you and your bags need to change terminals . Factor that in to how long you have between the two ! Oh , and there are quite a few oneworld flights to Hong Kong every day from Heathrow ( 5 ? 6 ? ) , so if your bags do miss your flight for some reason , it should n't be too long to wait until the next one for them to come on !
It is an IATA recommendation , and airlines tend to go with the minimum recommended in case the policy is in their favor , and opposite is true when the recommendation is against them : 3.2 PERIOD OF VALIDITY A ticket is valid for carriage for one year from the date of commencement of travel or if no portion of the ticket is used , from the date of issue thereof , except as otherwise provided in the ticket , these Conditions or Carrier 's Regulations . There are conditions in which the validity is extended . Basically when it is the airline 's mistake , such as cancelling a flight or so . Many airlines include this in their " General Conditions of Carriage &amp; Tariffs " , some types of tickets have less validity , usually the discounted tickets ( ~ 3 months ) . Source : <URL>
Can I take the train , instead of going by car ? Would this cause me any trouble later during the trip , especially regarding visa issues ? It will not be a problem as long as your ' invitation ' still sync 's up with your travel dates . Also , it will not prevent you from getting visas in the future .
I fly either that route ( as part of a GRU-SCL-AKL-MEL ) or the GRU-SCL-SYD-MEL route about 8 + times a year , though typically in business . There are really only two airlines to get you from SAO to AKL , and they 're Qantas and LAN , who each code-share the other 's flights . LAN 's fares are usually cheaper tha Qantas , even for exactly the same flight ( ie a LAN-marketed-fare on a Qantas-operated flight ) . The service and amenities in business at least are almost identical on both the LAN and Qantas flights out of Santiago ( SCL ) . In economy I suspect Qantas will be better , as I do n't think LAN have seat-back entertainment in economy . Because of the lack of competition on these routes , you will not find great variance between days of the week , especially if booking from further out . As the date gets closer , the weekends and Monday and Friday tend to book up , leaving only the higher fare classes aqvailable , so 1-4 weeks out you may see perhaps as much as a 20-30 % difference in fare between a mid-week flight and the other days . But this depends entirely on what has filled up . I recommend you book a LAN-marketed flight on Qantas metal , via an OTA such as Expedia . This is likely to be the best value .
If you are interested in both United Club membership and holding a United mileage credit card , by all means go for the United Club card . But everyone is n't necessarily like you . Some people are n't interested in holding an additional credit card , or ca n't qualify for an additional credit card , or ca n't qualify for this particular card , but are still interested in United Club membership . Some people do n't want another card , but also do n't mind the higher membership fee because they pay for Club membership with miles . Some people do n't want another card , but also do n't mind the higher membership fee because they are reimbursed for membership through their employer or other organization . Some people do n't want another card , but also do n't mind the membership fee because it is discounted on account of their frequent flyer status . United frequent flyer elites already receive the non-Club benefits of the card such as a free checked baggage allowance and priority boarding , so Premiers and GS gain nothing from the card in terms of travel privileges except for Club membership . All the U.S. carriers are heavily dependent on their affiliated credit cards for revenue , so it is unsurprising that United finds the idea of gaining another cardholder more desirable than a mere hundred dollars of annual revenue . The time may come when that is no longer the case , and the annual card fee and the annual club membership fee may fall closer together in price , but the option to join the club without holding the credit card is not likely to go away . ( Note that the United Club membership provided through the card is a regular United Club membership . There is no special tier of membership just for credit card holders ; you are not entitled to any benefits beyond an ordinary Club membership . You are entitled to same number of guests as well : 2 adults , or 1 adult with any dependent children , not an unlimited number of traveling companions . )
The answer is : it depends on where you are , what aircraft you 're flying on , how frequently you fly on them , and how often you stand next to tall objects in the middle of a field during thunderstorms ( among other factors . ) If you 're talking about the recent average chance of dying in a plane crash on a U.S. mainline air carrier per year vs. the recent average chance of getting killed by lightning in the U.S. per year , then , yes , you 're far more likely to be killed by lightning . <URL> , but there have been no passenger deaths at all on any U.S. mainline carrier due to an aviation incident ( i.e. not counting " passenger had a heart attack at 30,000 feet " ) since late 2001 <URL> . On the other hand , if you 're referring to flying daily on a helicopter with a shoddy safety record in a mountainous region where the climate also never results in any <URL> , then you 're much more likely to die in an aviation crash . Real conclusion : Without additional constraints , this is not an especially meaningful thing to compare . If you simply do n't fly , your chance of dying as an occupant in an aircraft crash is 0 % . If you spend all of your time in a place with no <URL> , your chance of dying in a lightning strike is also ( almost ) 0 % . * On the other hand , if you 're flying frequently on a private aircraft with shoddy maintenance or you have a habit of standing near tall objects in the middle of large , open fields during thunderstorms , you 'd best have good life insurance . * There are a few non-thunderstorm possible causes of lightning , <URL> , but these probably represent a statistically-insignificant number of lightning deaths .
Wind affects how long a flight takes . A jet plane travels at about 550 miles per hour . If you have a 100 mph head wind then your speed overland is around 450 miles per hour . If you have a 100 mph tail wind than your speed over land is about 650 miles per hour . Over the course of a 3600 mile or longer flight ( about 6.5 hours without wind ) the difference can be quite noticeable . Furthermore , wind patterns can be seasonal . There are some flights that take 6 hours during part of the year and 9 hours during other parts of the year .
Update : Good news , when you load the official page , you 'll now see that they accept VISA payments . As a result , you can now buy advance tickets from outside of Peru directly with the website . However , there are still many other ways to do this . I 'd recommend <URL> for sources on how to do it . There are numerous online tour agencies that you can pay to get you tickets . Once you 're in Cusco , you can buy a tour then if you 're doing one of the trails . Once you 're in Aguas Calientes ( final stop on the train route ) , you can buy tickets there . You can even buy tickets at the last second at the gate when you arrive at Machu Picchu . So do n't despair , there are plenty of other ways to achive your dream of going :)
Sure the risk is increased ( doubled , perhaps , but I imagine some connections are worse than others ) . Probably less risk if all your flights are with the same airline . If there 's a large variation in connection risk then two may be almost the same as one , statistically . The right decision depends on a bunch of factors . If ( say ) your first stop is in city X and you 're immediately getting into a rental car and driving 4 hours to city Y to make a presentation to a key customer then a delayed bag containing important stuff might be a real issue . If you arrive the night before and your bag does n't arrive until noon the next day , then you 're scuppered . Otherwise it might just be an inconvenience . Personally I would not ( probably could not ) take a 10 day multi-stop business trip with just a carry-on . Time is money when it 's for business and I would try to avoid hotel laundry more than once . If you 're just going to a fixed location such as a conference , have some free time , and the airport is reasonably near your hotel ( usually they 'll deliver a delayed bag ) , the risk is minimal . The risk of complete loss is pretty low , but you can decrease it by not putting anything that looks valuable in your bag . Most likely nobody wants to steal your clothes and reading material .
The earlier accepted answer by JonathanReez was written in 2014 . From December 2015 , <URL> .
The first thing to note is that there are in principle no situations in which you are free to choose where you should lodge your application . The rule is that you have to apply to the consulate of your main destination country serving your place of residence and , if there is no main destination , to the relevant consulate of the country through which you will enter the Schengen area . If you are planning a tour involving several countries , you could plan to stay a little longer somewhere or add a transit to target a specific country but this always involve adjusting your stated itinerary . The visa fee are defined in the visa code and thus exactly the same for all countries/consulates ( $ 60 for most pople , $ 35 for children between 6 and 12 and nationals of a handful of countries , and free for some special categories of applicants including infants and family members of EU citizens ) . Some consulates outsource some part of the process to a subcontractor ( often VFS Global , but France uses a company called TLScontact ) and they can add a processing fee on top of that . But that 's consulate-specific rather than country-specific . The documentary requirements should be more-or-less the same . The actual legal requirements ( and thus the standard an applicant has to meet and the valid reasons to refuse an application ) are also defined in the Schengen visa code and thus fully harmonized . That said , the requirements in question are pretty high-level requirements , e.g. " documents in relation to accommodation , or proof of sufficient means to cover his accommodation " which does leave quite a bit of room for interpretation . One example would be visits to friends and family : You need an official invitation but getting one involves quite a bit of hassle and the requirements do vary from one country to the next . However , it 's not easy to use these differences to your advantage as you obviously have to get the invitation from the place where your sponsor lives ... I do n't have any recent statistics at hand but those I have seen a few years ago show that there are indeed rather sizable differences in the refusal rates from one country to the next . However it 's not clear that targeting a country with a lower refusal rate can really help you . Among many other factors , consider this : There are also large differences in the origin of the applications processed by each country 's consular network . For example , Belgium processes nearly all applications for Schengen visas lodged in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( the Belgian embassy there runs something called the <URL> and handles applications on behalf of 18 different Schengen countries ) and this represents a large part of all applications processed by Belgium worldwide . There are many reasons why applications from the DRC tend to be weaker , or perhaps examined more rigorously than elsewhere and the refusal rate is indeed high , driving Belgium 's average up . But this is certainly not predictive of the odds of getting a visa from the Belgium consulate in London for a UK resident with a stable situation .
Rental prices are not designed for periods of more than a few days . It might be possible to negotiate a long-term price at a flexible rental business . It 's definitely possible to get a decent used bike for 50-100 EUR . There 's a risk that it could be a stolen one , but almost none of running into problems , even if it is . I 'm pretty sure that shipping a bike from Germany to Egypt and back will cost more than 100 EUR .
end question
start question
In Aviation terms , what is a Ground Stop ?
A <URL> is a ban of all aircraft taking off or landing at an airport . This could be due to a variety of reasons , but is primarily for safety - weather could be an issue ( e.g. thunderstorms ) , or there could be a security alert on the ground , or concern about something that may be on board a plane . It 's usually issued by the FAA , but could be issued by an individual airport as well . Flights already inbound may be directed to other cities to land there instead .
There is the <URL> card system , which you can get at the GO station , but not all subway stations currently accept it ( many a tourist would use do ) . All streetcars apparently now do accept it . If you are primarily visiting the downtown core , you 'll probably be taking the subway and streetcars , and less so buses . At subway stations you can usually pay in cash ( and get change ) if you need to , though the fare is higher . Streetcars can accept exact fare change . It 's a a stored-value card - you can charge it with a credit card at the ticket window of a GO station . It is zone system so you must tap it on entry and exit or you could be charged more than you trip should cost ( if you miss the exit tap ) or fined ( if you are riding effectively without a ticket ) . See the FAQ for information on refunds - I only have direct experience charging it for GO bus trips for my son . It seems to say that you could get an immediate refund of less than $ 50 balance , less 4 % service charge , otherwise you might have to wait for months . The TTC also has a day pass for $ 12 , which you could consider . The TTC fare using Presto is 2.90 CAD vs. 3.25 cash . Presto also gives you a ~ 11 % discount on the GO train fares ( probably around $ 10 each way from Burlington to Union Station ) . You can also buy TTC tokens at 3 tokens for $ 8.70 ( 2.90 per trip if you use them all ) . They 're really light and small - like an aluminum dime , take care they do n't get lost . Personally , for a day or two , I would suggest buying a return ticket for cash or credit card at the GO station and picking up some tokens ( credit and debit accepted over $ 10 ) at the subway station - and keeping it simple . ( Or use Presto and load it with the GO fare plus $ 12 or so for the day ) . For future reference , TTC tokens are due to be eliminated in favor of Presto , but that will not happen until mid-2017 . Edit : With regard to borrowing your host 's Presto card , yes it is explicitly allowed and would be an excellent solution : Can more than one person use the same PRESTO card to travel at different times ? Yes , PRESTO cards are transferable . If you are using a card that has a concession fare set , you must also be eligible for any discounted fares set on the card ( i.e. child , student , senior ) . A student , senior or child may use an adult 's PRESTO card to travel at full adult fare . However , an adult may not use a student 's , child 's or senior 's PRESTO card to travel . Also , there is no problem at all using your credit card to refill your host 's Presto .
tl ; dr : In theory no , in practice yes . Most national monuments ( e.g. Louvre , Musee d'Orsay , ... ) are managed by the same organization and likely they stick to the same rules . I assume this is similarlay valid for other sights ( e.g. Eiffel tower ) . In theory : <URL> states that entrance is free for disabled visitors and their guest or helper and A list of all acceptable proofs of entitlement is available at the museum from the Information Desk ( under the Pyramid ) . Now that is not very accessible and <URL> . The page is in French so if you do n't read that it basically says you need a card from MDPH or CDAPH which seem French institutions to me ( and a degree of the handicap of 80 % or more ) . Following the letter of this regulation , holders of foreign handicapped cards should not be granted the reduction . However I doubt this is the way it is handled in practice . In practice : A German issued card was accepted without hesitation for the card holder and an accompanying person ( even when not specified on the card , regardless of degree of disability ) at Musee d'Orsay . I assume similar policies are in place also for the other national monuments .
You do NOT have to return back to your home country . It 's perfectly fine to travel to the US from anywhere as long as you have the right visa . Many people leave their home countries once , travel to many places as long as they have the right visas , then finally go back home . They do n't have to go back home after every country they visit along the way . That 's not how visas work , and not how common sense works as well . Also , that 's why websites have multi-city bookings , that 's one of the reasons why real travel agencies ( eg . not online ) are still there , to be able to make such complicated itineraries . Your travel agent gave you a bad advice , he / she is either new to this , or has a plan to make more money out of this .
The different types of waiting lists are : GNWL : General Waiting List RLWL : Remote Location Waiting List PQWL : A Pooled Quota Waiting List RLGN : Remote Location General Waiting List RSWL : Roadside Station Waiting List RQWL : Request Waiting List CKWL or Tatkal waiting list An <URL> in trainman.in website explains about these waiting lists as follows : GNWL : General Waiting List ( GNWL ) waitlisted tickets are issued when the passenger begins his/her journey at the originating station of a route or stations close to the originating station . This is most common type of waiting list and has got the highest chances of confirmation . RLWL : Remote Location Waiting List ( RLWL ) means ticket is issued for intermediate stations ( between the originating and terminating stations ) because usually these are the most important towns or cities on that particular route . This type of tickets will be given a separate priority and confirmations will depend on the cancellations of a destination confirmed ticket . Remote location stations prepare there own chart 2-3 hours before the actual departure of train . For this type of ticket there are less chances of confirmation . PQWL : A Pooled Quota Waiting List ( PQWL ) is shared by several small stations . Pooled Quotas normally operate only from the originating station of a route , and there is only one Pooled Quota for the entire run . The Pooled Quota is generally allotted for passengers travelling from the originating station to a station short of the terminating station , or from an intermediate station to the terminating station , or between two intermediate stations . RLGN : Remote Location General Waiting List ( RLGN ) is issued when a user books a ticket where WL quota is RLWL . This means after ticket booking RLWL gets named as RLGN . RSWL : Roadside Station Waiting List ( RSWL ) is allotted when berths or seats are booked by the originating station for journeys up to the road-side station and distance restrictions may not apply . This waiting list has also very less chances of confirmation . RQWL : If a ticket is to be booked from an intermediate station to another intermediate station , and if it is not covered by the general quota or by the remote location quotas or pooled quota , the request for the ticket may go into a Request Waiting List ( RQWL ) . CKWL or Tatkal waiting list : For tatkal tickets , the waiting list issued is CKWL . If tatkal ticket goes up , it directly gets confirmed and does n't go through RAC status unlike GNWL . During chart preparation , general waiting list ( GNWL ) is preferred over tatkal waiting list ( CKWL ) therefore tatkal waitlisted tickets are less likely to get confirmed . Thanks to <URL> for the information .
I would recommend Ambleside : there 's a frequent bus service ( 555 ) from Windermere ( which it is very close to ) and you can do day-hikes without a bus to Grasmere and quite a few fells ( e.g. Fairfield ) . With short bus trip ( at least in Summer ) you can get up the Langdale valley , and on to Coniston or towards Keswick for day-hikes on some classic hills ( the Old Man of Coniston , Helvellyn , etc. ) You might also consider Keswick itself ( about 30 mins by bus from Penrith station ) which is handy for Blencathra and Skiddaw hikes and Derwent Water .
Allemansrätten , or Every person 's right , is a freedom in Sweden which states that everyone must have access to nature . As far as I remember , there are similar rules in other Nordic countries , but I 'm not familiar with the specifics . <URL> is the Swedish environmental protection agency that regulates the access to nature . You can read the rules at length <URL> , but for your convenience , here 's the executive version : You are allowed to hike , ski , swim , ride , cycle , camp in the great outdoors , under some specific restrictions : Not allowed in cities and private gardens , or on land used for cultivation . Not allowed in vicinity of buildings ( e.g. houses ) -- at least 150 m from the nearest house . Foraging is permitted , but hunting and fishing are expressly prohibited . No motor vehicles allowed without owner 's permission , but if a private road is available , its use is permitted . When horseback riding or cycling , be careful not to damage the ground , if possible Fires are allowed , but naturally safety regulations must be observed . You can stay for a night or two in a particular spot , but for longer periods , you should ask for permission from the land owner . Or , you can just pack and go to another location . <URL> apply for natural preserves and protected areas It goes without saying that you must not destroy or damage owner 's property , and must not cause disturbance . Apart from these , the rules are pretty liberal and you are free to roam to your heart 's content in the vast Swedish countryside . Enjoy your stay !
Yes , you can . And I did . I just tried it from my recent trip from Narita to Shanghai Pudong via Incheon transit . I first asked Asiana Airline via email if it is possible , and they answered I must call by phone to cancel the flight . Then I called , and the operator said I should cancel the flight at the check-in counter . They seemed to not cancel my flight at that time . Then at the time of check-in , I asked again and the staff there said I can , as long as I book another return ticket and show him the ticket . I did n't have another ticket , so I immediately tried to search for and booked my return ticket , which is from Incheon to Narita in 6 days after . He accepted it , but during him checking my ( original ) ticket , he said that I can change the date of the ticket ! . According to his explanation , I did n't have to book another return ticket ; I should just change the date of the ticket of the only Incheon to Narita part . Hmmm ... it 's too stressful . It meant that I replaced my Asiana ticket with the cheap LCC one and also lost my US$ 100 . Sigh ... My ignorance ... But if you want to ditch only the last part of your return flight , it is possible ! . NOTE : Because I just booked my flight shortly before the departure , and had n't booked my hotel , I got myself into the investigation room at immigration . You shall be better off expecting a slightly more demanding , scrutinizing inspection .
Turkish Airlines published a notice on their website regarding this very issue . Unfortunately the link is currently down ( probably due to the large load ) , but here is a <URL> : <URL> Dear Passengers , Due to the incident that has taken place at Ataturk International Airport on 28 June 2016 , passengers who have bookings on the flights from/to and connected Istanbul Ataturk Airport between 28 Jun - 05 Jul 2016 , provided that they submit their request until 31 Jul 2016 : 1 ) All rebooking and rerouting will be made without any charge . 2 ) Refund requests : a ) Unused tickets : Refund will be made without any charge ; or b ) For partially used tickets , when planned trip is not complete ; the remaining flights will be refunded without any charge . 3 ) Extension of ticket validity : Validity of ticket can be extended until 31 Jul 2016 ( included ) without any fare difference or charge . We kindly ask our passengers to check the latest information about their flights before their trip on our web site or call center . ( 90 212 444 0 849 ) Regards Turkish Airlines Unfortunately this does not apply to you as you are traveling in August . Even if it did apply in your situation , you would have a difficult time getting any recourse from Turkish Airlines as the ticket was purchased through a third party . Thus , your only recourse is to ask flighthub.ca for a refund , and <URL> : The majority of airline reservations booked in economy class are non-refundable and non exchangeable . In some cases an airline may issue a credit voucher in lieu of a cash refund , which can be used for future travel with that airline . Please be aware that these vouchers are usually valid for one year from the date the original ticket was issued . In the event where the ticket you purchased is refundable it will be subject to penalties imposed by the airline as well as a processing fee by FlightHub . Any cancellations will be handled on the day the request was made . Please note that any refunds can take as long as 6 weeks to appear on your credit card statement .
Use the <URL> to find the best exchange rate in the city ( <URL> works great for Russian ) : As of today , <URL> has the best rates .
They returned to the immigration office asked some questions and apparently the receipt tells them to come back on Thursday ( 4 days time ) to collect their passports .
I found a statistic for you that lists the average medical evacuation cost for at least some countries : <URL> As you can see , you have to be prepared for some 10,000 USD .
Absolutely ! Conservation areas often have them . Here 's a picture I took in 2010 from a lookout at the <URL> in Kawartha Lakes : <URL> There are plenty of others in the area . Are you looking to go north or south of Peterborough ? Would you like to get a lake involved as well ? The leaves are good right now in this area by the way . I got a gorgeous dose of leaf-peeping just popping out to pick up my veggies from the farm - 5 miles each way along country roads and lots of golds , yellows , and reds on either side of the road and occasionally over it .
No , there is no international standard , these policies are entirely up to the airline . As rough guidelines : For " unaccompanied minors " , meaning traveling alone but with support from airline staff ( usually a paid service ) , most airlines draw the line at 5 or 6 years . However , many impose additional restrictions if there are connecting flights , especially to other airlines . From ( around ) 12 years , minors may be permitted to fly entirely solo , with a guardian 's permission . In addition , policies for international flights are typically stricter than for domestic flights . As a typical example , here 's the <URL> from Qantas .
According to flypeach <URL> : Fees and charges are quoted in the currency of your first point of origin This is typical for airline websites , but online travel agents often allow you to book in the currency of your choice . If you wish to view the price in an alternate currency , then you could install a web page currency conversion plugin .
All ATMs in the Thai Bank Pool charge the 200 baht fee * , the two exceptions are Citibank ( only in Bangkok ) and AEON who charge 150 baht ( neither are technically banks which is why they are outside the pool ) . A traveler really needs to pull the max amount of baht allowed to keep the fee more minimal in terms of percentages . Most machines limit you to 20 notes , or 20,000 baht , though I heard a couple of bank chains now have new machines that will dispense 30 notes . You can go inside the banks and get a Visa or MasterCard cash advance . Some banks like Bangkok Bank do it without any fees , some others add a 2 or 3 % surcharge . But you need to use a Visa or MC debit card , not credit card , because credit cards charge you interest from the moment you get the advance , there is no 30 day grace period as you get on purchases . You also need to ask for an amount greater than the ATM allows or the teller will point you to the ATM machine outside . Travelers checks carry fees to exchange as well so are n't really any cheaper , plus only a few brands are accepted these days because too many counterfeits were circulating . Cash is , of course , the best in terms of no fees , but adds the worry for some folks about carrying that much cash around . With cash you need to make sure you have crisp new notes , banks are finicky about taking old tattered notes . You also need to consider that some currencies like the US Dollar , the rate you get depends on the denomination of the note , ie : you get a better exchange rate using $ 100 bills , than using $ 10 bills . * The ATM fee is scheduled to increase to 250 baht in August 2016
Any government issued ID should be fine , but PAN or passport is the most widely used . You will need to display the ID at airport security as well as the airline check in counter .
<URL> / transfer is simply opposite to public transportation , unlike buses for example where it is public to anyone , private transport means having your private non-shared transportation method like renting a car , motorbike , taxi or private jet :)
I went straight to Wikipedia for this . Their article <URL> states : David is a masterpiece of Renaissance sculpture created between 1501 and 1504 , by the Italian artist Michelangelo . It is a 5.17-metre ( 17.0 ft ) marble statue of a standing male nude . The statue represents the Biblical hero David , a favoured subject in the art of Florence . Originally commissioned as one of a series of statues of prophets to be positioned along the roofline of the east end of Florence Cathedral , the statue was instead placed in a public square , outside the Palazzo della Signoria , the seat of civic government in Florence , where it was unveiled on 8 September 1504 . Because of the nature of the hero that it represented , it soon came to symbolize the defense of civil liberties embodied in the Florentine Republic , an independent city-state threatened on all sides by more powerful rival states and by the hegemony of the Medici family . The eyes of David , with a warning glare , were turned towards Rome . The statue was moved to the Accademia Gallery in Florence in 1873 , and later replaced at the original location by a replica . So although you could see a replica at the Florence Cathedral , the real deal is currently at the Accademia Gallery , where it has stood since 1873 .
Making calls or texting on a handheld phone while driving is illegal and unsafe basically everywhere , and you 're entirely within your rights to tell them to stop and , if they do n't , complain to the taxi authorities or even the police . If they 're using a hands-free device though , and vast majority of cabbies are , you 're likely out of luck . This is ( usually ) legal , and dealing with bookings is a critical part of their livelihood : you 're already in the cab , they 're trying to find their next fare Of course , you can always request they stop , and ask to be dropped off right then and there if they do n't . But if you 're in enough of a hurry that you 're in a taxi in the first place , this may not be a realistic alternative .
end question
start question
What is a polite way to tell a Scottish person that I am struggling to understand his/her accent ?
I 'm English and lived in Glasgow for 4 years . Understanding many ( but certainly not all ) people will be tricky ( even us native speakers struggle ) , but they 'll be very willing to try to help you understand , and it wo n't cause offence . You probably wo n't even need to explain : as soon as they see look of blank incomprehension and hear you begin to say " Err , sorry " in a non-Scottish accent they 'll usually laugh and know what 's going on . It 's a common situation . A few things to understand about Glasgow : They 're used to it . It 's a running joke in the UK that the <URL> accent is especially hard to understand . I certainly struggled more than once , and I 'm a native English speaker . Everyone in Glasgow is familiar with this . Heck , plenty of people from Edinburgh struggle to understand Glaswegians ( to the delight of many Glaswegians , who take it as proof that their Edinburgh rivals are less truly Scottish ... ) . <URL> . It 's actually somewhat exaggerated - most Glaswegians are very easy to understand . So much so that <URL> - it 's a very expressive accent , and studies find people respond well to it , it sounds honest and warm . But when an individual Glaswegian is difficult to understand , and many are , they 're very difficult to understand - and you will encounter several such people . It wo n't be everyone you meet , or even the majority , just a very memorable , sizeable minority . They take pride in being helpful to foreign guests . Glaswegians take a lot of pride in being welcoming to outsiders ( especially non-English outsiders ... but surprisingly welcoming to us <URL> too ) , and particularly to Scandinavians ( many pro-independence Glaswegians feel more affinity to social-democratic Scandinavia than they do to the London-dominated , more conservative UK ) . The <URL> is a topical textbook example of Weegie pride in being warmly welcoming to foreigners . Most Glaswegians will be very happy to try to help you out . They 're very aware of the difference between their speech and standard English , and tend to be rather proud of it . The idea that <URL> is not a dialect but a wholly separate language to English is pretty popular in pro-independence Glasgow , and there 's even a term for and books about <URL> . Scots spell differently when writing in Scots as opposed to formal English , there are even <URL> . Glaswegians take a lot of pride in having a good sense of humour and being able to take some stick , and also in being a bit different to everywhere else . Something like this wo n't cause offence . They may have had the same experience themselves . Not only are Glaswegians familiar with others struggling to understand their accents , they 're also familiar with struggling to understand other , even stronger Scottish accents themselves . For example , there 's the potentially-offensive Scots word <URL> ( pronounced like Choo-chter , with the second like Loch ) , which a Glaswegian friend cheerfully translated to me as meaning " Those <URL> from up North who we cannae understand what they 're saying " ; before doing an impression of a Teuchter accent ( north highland Scottish ) which , to me , was actually slightly easier to understand than her normal speech ... Scottish accents are very varied , and it 's not uncommon for Scots to have experienced struggling to understand other Scots . While getting people to try to help you understand will be easy , getting them to succeed in helping you understand them is a different story ... Luckily , if all else fails , Glaswegians tend to be very expressive with their body language . You 're very unlikely to cause offence ( unless you accidentally get your country names mixed up and talk as if Scotland is a part of England , or imply that you think Edinburgh is in any way Scotland 's most important city ... those common tourist mistakes will cause offence ! ) One thing to be aware of is , Glaswegians tend to be much more direct and expressive than Londoners . Do n't panic if a Glaswegian says something which seems blunt or confrontational to a point where a Londoner would only ever say it to a mortal enemy - it 's usually just friendly banter intended in good humour . If they 're actually being angry or aggressive , you 'll know . Update - Mast posted a comment above suggesting practicing with a native to get used to the accent . If that 's hard to do , there are several famous Glaswegian comedians who have medium-strength Glaswegian accents . Look for videos of : Kevin Bridges Billy Connolly Frankie Boyle ( warning - not for the easily offended ) ( fictional character ) Rab C Nesbitt ( also possibly not for the easily offended ) Episodes of the sitcom Still Game
I think the most standard scenario is visibly leaving the money ( or a credit card ) in the book/cup/whatever . Make sure banknotes can not fly away and wait . The waiter will expect you to do that and try to check again shortly . Just laying the cash and leaving is not the end of the world but it 's clearly not the usual way , at least in France . If they are too busy and you really want to leave , you can also walk up to the counter/desk/whatever but that would also be somewhat unusual . Whatever you do , waiters will try to accommodate you but people standing up before they have paid does create some stress . Note that in France for example , a tip is not really expected ( when I worked as a waiter I was happy to get one of course but at least half of the tables do n't give any and that 's perfectly OK ) . The way most people tip is by getting their change and then leaving some ( or perhaps even more than that ) on the table when leaving . Saying " make 15 " ( say on a EUR 20 banknote for a EUR 13 bill ) is something Germans do ;-) I do n't know precisely about Italy or Belgium but I think that in the Netherlands there is a stronger expectation that you stand up and go to the desk to pay , at least if the place is not too fancy .
I 'm English and lived in Glasgow for 4 years . Understanding many ( but certainly not all ) people will be tricky ( even us native speakers struggle ) , but they 'll be very willing to try to help you understand , and it wo n't cause offence . You probably wo n't even need to explain : as soon as they see look of blank incomprehension and hear you begin to say " Err , sorry " in a non-Scottish accent they 'll usually laugh and know what 's going on . It 's a common situation . A few things to understand about Glasgow : They 're used to it . It 's a running joke in the UK that the <URL> accent is especially hard to understand . I certainly struggled more than once , and I 'm a native English speaker . Everyone in Glasgow is familiar with this . Heck , plenty of people from Edinburgh struggle to understand Glaswegians ( to the delight of many Glaswegians , who take it as proof that their Edinburgh rivals are less truly Scottish ... ) . <URL> . It 's actually somewhat exaggerated - most Glaswegians are very easy to understand . So much so that <URL> - it 's a very expressive accent , and studies find people respond well to it , it sounds honest and warm . But when an individual Glaswegian is difficult to understand , and many are , they 're very difficult to understand - and you will encounter several such people . It wo n't be everyone you meet , or even the majority , just a very memorable , sizeable minority . They take pride in being helpful to foreign guests . Glaswegians take a lot of pride in being welcoming to outsiders ( especially non-English outsiders ... but surprisingly welcoming to us <URL> too ) , and particularly to Scandinavians ( many pro-independence Glaswegians feel more affinity to social-democratic Scandinavia than they do to the London-dominated , more conservative UK ) . The <URL> is a topical textbook example of Weegie pride in being warmly welcoming to foreigners . Most Glaswegians will be very happy to try to help you out . They 're very aware of the difference between their speech and standard English , and tend to be rather proud of it . The idea that <URL> is not a dialect but a wholly separate language to English is pretty popular in pro-independence Glasgow , and there 's even a term for and books about <URL> . Scots spell differently when writing in Scots as opposed to formal English , there are even <URL> . Glaswegians take a lot of pride in having a good sense of humour and being able to take some stick , and also in being a bit different to everywhere else . Something like this wo n't cause offence . They may have had the same experience themselves . Not only are Glaswegians familiar with others struggling to understand their accents , they 're also familiar with struggling to understand other , even stronger Scottish accents themselves . For example , there 's the potentially-offensive Scots word <URL> ( pronounced like Choo-chter , with the second like Loch ) , which a Glaswegian friend cheerfully translated to me as meaning " Those <URL> from up North who we cannae understand what they 're saying " ; before doing an impression of a Teuchter accent ( north highland Scottish ) which , to me , was actually slightly easier to understand than her normal speech ... Scottish accents are very varied , and it 's not uncommon for Scots to have experienced struggling to understand other Scots . While getting people to try to help you understand will be easy , getting them to succeed in helping you understand them is a different story ... Luckily , if all else fails , Glaswegians tend to be very expressive with their body language . You 're very unlikely to cause offence ( unless you accidentally get your country names mixed up and talk as if Scotland is a part of England , or imply that you think Edinburgh is in any way Scotland 's most important city ... those common tourist mistakes will cause offence ! ) One thing to be aware of is , Glaswegians tend to be much more direct and expressive than Londoners . Do n't panic if a Glaswegian says something which seems blunt or confrontational to a point where a Londoner would only ever say it to a mortal enemy - it 's usually just friendly banter intended in good humour . If they 're actually being angry or aggressive , you 'll know . Update - Mast posted a comment above suggesting practicing with a native to get used to the accent . If that 's hard to do , there are several famous Glaswegian comedians who have medium-strength Glaswegian accents . Look for videos of : Kevin Bridges Billy Connolly Frankie Boyle ( warning - not for the easily offended ) ( fictional character ) Rab C Nesbitt ( also possibly not for the easily offended ) Episodes of the sitcom Still Game
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
So since you have to basically go on a tour ( unless you volunteer ) , it 's fairly easy to get a visa - see <URL> . Book a tour and they 'll sort the visa for you . <URL> . Volunteering is certainly possible , and a quick google reveals many who have done it . I 'll try and indicate different examples , as each might be harder or easier for future readers . <URL> through Health Volunteers Overseas . <URL> from people who have done it - including a page on <URL> . Another <URL> describes volunteers from Japan , Singapore and New Zealand . Finally <URL> advertised . Many other such sites would exist as well , google certainly showed many more . What 's important , however , as the last blog post pointed out is that you should only volunteer to actually contribute something towards their country , not just to avoid a tourist fee . Of course , if you can succeed in doing both , everyone wins !
From a former cabin crew 's point of view , there are two issues here : 1 . Waking the passengers up : This is done for two reasons actually : Safety reason : It is a good practice for the airlines to wake passengers up whenever possible , the real reason behind that is checking if the passenger is ok or not . Many cases of very sick passengers ( incapacitated ) were discovered this way . Sometimes the crew fails to wake up the passenger and call a doctor onboard , doctor comes and discovers something wrong and saves the passenger ! . ( I have personally experienced that ) . Sometimes dead passengers are discovered this way . Furthermore , this practice is embedded in most airlines ' safety policies . Service reason : If the crew did not wake up the sleeping passengers at the time of the service , once the passengers wake up they will ask for a meal . This is not easy for many reasons , the meals can not be re-heated again ( food poisoning risk ) and most likely the crew will heat all of the meals for that service at once so no extra frozen meals available . The crew also can not use the meals from the second service before its time , also heating the meals takes from 20-30 minutes and there will be no time especially after the second service . So to save their selves from some problems , wake them up and ask them , that 's the best for both crew and passengers . 2 . Asking the passengers to put the seat in upright position : Now this does not really make sense , most of the airlines interior manufacturers have solved this issue and not the space nor the position of the opened tray table is affected by the seat position ( either upright of fully reclined ) because tray tables are not originated from the seat itself , they are originated from the seat legs which are fixed and do not move . So reclining the seat will only makes the upper area smaller but does not actually move the table backward . I worked for years as cabin crew on different models and different interior designs and never seen this issue . Yes reclined seats can make it harder for you to enter the row because the upper are will be more narrow but for sure it will not affect the lower area where the tray table is . Many airlines do distribute a " Do Not Disturb " sticker in long-haul flights to people who wants to sleep undisturbed will stick it so crew will not wake them up during services . First and Business classes passengers do not have to worry about this because they usually have more space between rows and in-seat tray tables . To answer your question , why do they do it in this airline , I really do not know and I can not know , but I am sure they have a good reason . Either they have a bad interior design or just some policy for a reason I am not aware of . As you can see in the photo above , the tray table is attached to the seat leg which is fixed . Reclining the seat while the table is down will not affect the table position . Otherwise the table will also be tilted !
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
If you have a specific flight in mind , with the flight number , you can use <URL> , which has pretty good global coverage for most airlines . The duration is shown on the right : actual duration for completed flights and scheduled duration for upcoming/in progress ones .
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
Seafood allergies are a big issue in Japan , vegetarianism is often hard to deal with , a strong allergy to shrimp will cause problems unless you know what not to eat and are prepared to tell the waiter your needs in Japanese . If you rely on English skills only and do not avoid special types of food , you will have a problem , guaranteed . My first recommendation would be to for sure avoid deep fried food such as Tempura , Kushikatsu amd Tonkatsu . Those are all fried in the same oil as other customers food and therefore for sure mixed with shrimp . Secondly , as long as you go for other food types you might be fine most of the time provided that you prepare a paper for the waiter in Japanese that makes them aware of the issue and thus stay safe of ordering something that contains a sauce or soup made of shrimp . You better also get a proper understanding what causes the allergy so that you know if it 's only shrimp or also crabs or other types of shellfish . Shellfish varieties in Japan are numerous and you want to avoid a misunderstanding . Then you will be ok and enjoy a huge variety of Japanese food . Be aware that in many cases waiters do not know too much about the food they are serving and have to check with the cook about the ingredients of what they serve , so you better have something on the paper that says " Please check with the cook that ... " . Last but not least there is the probably most important warning : The Japanese healthcare system is suffering from a slew of litigation cases which causes many hospitals and clinics to refuse emergency cases . A friend of mine had to be brought to 6 ( ! ) different clinics in Tokyo with a bust appendix until he was accepted . So if the consequences of the allergy are life-threatening , you better ask your doctor at home if you can get any emergency treatment injection or pills to stop or delay the effects of the allergy until you can get accepted in a hospital and get proper treatment . Otherwise you might face dire consequences .
One option is to take the train . I 've just looked for a random weekday in September , and there 's basically one train an hour in each direction . It 's direct , and takes just shy of 4 hours . To get train times , your best bet is to use <URL> and search from there . ( Yes , that is the German railways rather than the Italian I 'm suggesting , but they have a better site and can search basically all of Europe ! ) In terms of Cheap , it is n't too bad . It 's about $ 100 return if you book in advance onto specific trains ( Mini ) , rising to about $ 200 for a flexible ticket ( Flessibile ) .
Given that <URL> I 'd say that it would be perfectly legal for you to wear one on the plane regardless of which class you 're flying in . Worst case scenario you 'll get some looks from other passengers . Go ahead and fly comfortable .
Aside Greyhound ( costing 30-60 ) , <URL> shows various other bus options including <URL> costing 20 . There is also a bus combination using <URL> which supposedly costs 19-24 . <URL> can get you there for as low as 11 one way depending on what day of the week you 're traveling and how far in the future you book your ticket . The bus trip takes 4 to 4.5 hours
There 's really only one choice : the Karakorum Highway . Regular buses travel between last Pakistani town on the highway , Sust , and Kashgar . The only caveat is that the highway is subject to closure during the cold season , so it is best to arrange for travel before November . Sust is not a particularly nice place , so if possible try and get tickets before showing up there . If you have to wait a few days before the bus goes , however , just head back down the highway to Passu or Karimabad , which are very nice . Getting to Sust is easy since the Karakorum plunges down through the mountains to the Punjab , where Rawalpindi and Islamabad are located , so you can start your journey from there by tavelling to Gilgit , which is the largest town in the Northern Areas and a transportation hub . If you are in the Hunza , you 'll also want to make for Gilgit , unless you can find transportation directly to Karimabad . Wherever you find yourself on the highway , there are lots of buses ( further south ) and minibuses ( further north ) travelling in both directions . Pre-earthquake , it was possible ( if technically forbidden ) to enter Azad Kashmir and visit Muzaffarabad , but this is strictly optional . A note about the bus between Sust and Kashgar : it 's a two-day ride and you 'll be put in a hotel ( likely unheated ) for a night in Tashkurgan after passing through Chinese customs . The hotel price should be included in the bus ticket , but you might want to double check that . There 's also a " park fee " you have to pay to travel through the last bit of Pakistan . It 's very modest .
Yes there is : <URL> , specifically the <URL> , which offers sensible alternatives automatically . For example , if you enter a query like " <URL> " , it will tell you that you can take the Tube ( every 2 min , estimated time 6 min ) and that you could just walk it ( estimated time 11 min ) .
You could try talking to the Pakistani Embassy to find out if presenting a British passport at the same time as your Turkish one might count as " having a British visa " . It might depend on the exact legal definition . Getting a UK visa when you are already a UK citizen is going to problematic , even if it is possible , and may make someone suspicious of why you are doing it . You could also try to obtain a Schengen or US visa with your Turkish passport , both of which should be possible . However the point of the exercise seems to be to avoid getting a Pakistani visa in advance - but to do it you have to apply for another visa ( in advance ) . Unless there is a really good reason it would seem to be simpler to just apply for a visa from Pakistan
I do n't know exactly what the situation is with businesses in Stockholm , but in Gothenburg ( the 2nd largest city ) , nearly every place will take both card and cash . Some places , generally high-end restaurants , will only take card as payment , and in festivals , street markets and student pubs it could happen that they only accept cash .
You can , but it is a very roundabout solution . From Phuket , you must travel to Singapore . From there you can take the Ferry to the port of Belawan . Then travel to Banda Aceh . Another route is from Pulau Aceh which travels to MIN Ulee Lheue . Unfortunately according to here , <URL> , the ferry from Penang was closed . The ferry from Penang is no longer operating . One thing I did notice , have you thought about flying out of Penang ? It seems flights are much cheaper . SIDENOTE : If you fly from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur in early Dec. the rates are much cheaper . Then fly from Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . But I can see why you mentioned this is complicated . ADDENDUM : However , I looked up flights in Air Asia matching early Dec flights . My trip went from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur , then Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . PH - > KL $ 45.25 Dec 3 Depart 8:05 -10:20 AM flight KL - > BA $ 35.75 Dec 3 Depart 13:15 -13:45 PM BA - > KL $ 42.20 Dec 10 Depart 8:50 -11:20 AM KL - > PH $ 48.61 Dec 10 Depart 18:05 -18:40 Total Price : $ 171.81 or 5950.38 Thai Baht
You have at least two options : Bus + train The nearest railway station to Courmayeur is Pré-St . Didier , approximately 6 km from Courmayeur . To get from Courmayeur to Pré-St . Didier , take a bus with <URL> . This bus departs several times per day and takes 10 minutes . You need <URL> . It 's also possible to take this bus all the way to Aosta , but it 's perhaps more interesting to change to the train . For the train from either Pré-St . Didier or Aosta to Milano Centrale , you can use the search engine at <URL> . To get from Pré-St . Didier to Milano Centrale , you need to take the train to Aosta , then Aosta -- Ivrea , Ivrea -- Chivasso and Chivasso -- Milano . This route takes 4 hours 18 minutes and costs $ 17.40 . There are other routes that take longer . Note that <URL> , used by bahn.de and other websites , is incomplete . It claims a journey trip from Pré St. Didier to Milan takes 6 hours 55 minutes , by train to Aoste , bus to Martigny , train via Visp to Milano . This is neither fastest nor cheapest ! By bus all the way SAVDA also operate <URL> . Times and frequency depend on the time of day . The bus takes approximately 3 1/2 -- 4 hours , and costs $ 18 .
end question
start question
Website or application for travel recommendations ?
The <URL> comes very close to what you are looking for . It has no option for the budget . I think it used to have one , but I never found it very useful . Budget is something very stretchy . It depends a lot on what you want to spend . Or put differently , you can control it , at least partially , by appropriately choosing mode for travel , accommodation , catering , etc. . Depending on the type of traveler you are , you can also try sites like ltur.com . There you specify a point of departure , and you can search according to regions and budget .
Answering my own question because this took a lot of legwork : We found precisely two insurers who cover travel beyond 26 weeks . ( Only for uncomplicated births : no multiples ( twins ) , no IVF . ) <URL> offers coverage up to 36 weeks in some countries . However , if you 're based in Australia , <URL> , and that requires an expensive " Pregnancy Extension Option " that pushed the insurance price to over $ 800 for 5 weeks ( ! ) . <URL> offers cover <URL> as a part of their standard policy , and will even provide a letter on request stating so ( handy for those US immigration authorities ) . They 're happy to insure residents of any country for travel to virtually any country , and while not cheap , at 323 euros the cost was still about half of what Columbus wanted . No prizes for guessing which one we went with ! Update : In the end , neither check-in nor US immigration noticed my wife is pregnant , and the birth occurred outside the US as well . So we never had to " test out " the insurance .
The specific policy will depend on your fare rules and on the airline you choose , but a week is a frightfully long time when it comes to airline tickets . Revenue tickets Some airlines let you pay a fee to reserve a seat and guarantee the price at the time of booking for up to seven days . For example , United calls its offering <URL> , Air France <URL> , and Lufthansa the unimaginative <URL> . It may not be offered for every fare or on every route . Some airlines allow you to reserve the seat and price for free , but only for 24 hours after booking or till midnight the following day . Some airlines , including American , make it possible to hold online ; others require you to call in . Still other airlines , including Qantas , allow you to reserve a seat for free , but will not honor the price at reservation time . Among U.S.-based airlines , it is most common now that the airline will not hold a reservation for you ; however , they do give you up to 24 hours to cancel a purchase without penalty , subject to other restrictions ( e.g. the trip might need to be at least a week or two in the future ) . In other words , you have post-purchase rather than pre-purchase flexibility . In my experience , the refund extends even to non-refundable fares . Cathay Pacific , for its part , allows <URL> a 24-hour prepurchase hold or a 24-hour postpurchase refund grace period , but not both . Award tickets Things are a looser with frequent flyer award tickets -- sometimes . Air Canada , British Airways , and others do not allow holds on award tickets at all , and few airlines are willing or able to hold award seats on partner carriers . But if you are redeeming on your " native " metal , you may be able to call in and hold the seat for several days . Extending a hold Sometimes , you can get call in and get an agent to extend a hold for you once or twice , especially if you have elite frequent flyer status . But there are no guarantees . They will not do so on high-demand routes , especially for frequent flyer redemptions in premium cabins , and may not be able to enforce a hold or an extension of a hold on partner airlines in the itinerary in the first place . Back in the days when many bookings were done through travel agents and on paper , there was more uncertainty as well as more capacity , allowing holds of three or even seven days on some fares . But airlines , like any other business , prefer to have the revenue of someone willing to pay now as opposed to the potential revenue of someone who might pay later , and in the modern competitive environment , holds are quite unpopular . The 24-hour window persists because ARC , the largest clearinghouse for airline tickets , continues to extend its traditional 24-hour grace period for travel agents to void tickets without penalty -- but that may not last either .
Websites for comparing US air travel prices : Aggregators <URL> <URL> Online Travel Agents <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Other Airline websites ( e.g , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. )
Yes , in principle you should have gotten an entry stamp for the Schengen area . It seems the French border guard did not follow the rules . I do n't think UK border guards generally put exit stamps in passports , I believe the UK authorities should have gotten a passenger list from IDBUS so you should be fine as far as the UK is concerned . As far as Schengen rules are concerned the burden of proof will indeed be on you and you could theoretically be treated as an overstayer if you can not show a recent Schengen entry stamp , as set in article 11 of the <URL> : Presumption as regards fulfilment of conditions of duration of stay If the travel document of a third-country national does not bear an entry stamp , the competent national authorities may presume that the holder does not fulfil , or no longer fulfils , the conditions of duration of stay applicable within the Member State concerned . The presumption referred to in paragraph 1 may be rebutted where the third-country national provides , by any means , credible evidence , such as transport tickets or proof of his or her presence outside the territory of the Member States , that he or she has respected the conditions relating to the duration of a short stay . The previous exit stamp and UK entry stamp will at least show you have n't been in the Schengen area all the time since your last entry stamp but it would still be best to keep your IDBUS ticket to document the date you reentered the Schengen area , at least until the next time you exit it and probably for a few years after that . This is especially important if you are playing it close and want to stay several weeks ( if you are leaving within a few days of your first entry , it does not matter at all as you would not exceed the maximum allowed stay either way ) .
What criteria would you use to label people xenophobic ? And would these criteria really reflect your own experience visiting these places ? In <URL> , the criterion is the answer " strongly/somewhat disagree " to the statement " The presence of foreigners is good for the city " in the EU survey " Perception survey on quality of life in European cities " . While the question does fit with the definition of xenophobia , it does n't really reflect the experience of visiting these cities as a tourist , assuming the sample size is sufficient for a meaningful analysis ( which is most unlikely ) People tend to be a big part of the reactions they get . Some people can travel just about anywhere and enjoy a great welcome while others go to the same places and are endlessly disappointed , scammed ... Any broad generalization on the matter is more likely to cause problems than it is to help travelers . You would be better served by making a list of countries you are interested in and doing some more detailed research on those . Check out what scams are frequent . Check out if people complain of double pricing . Check out if formal segregation between locals and foreigners . Read accounts of foreigners who travel cross country by bike/motorbike as they will usually give you a good idea of how they were perceived by people they met . etc. . It will give you a far better picture of the situation than some superficial xenophobia index .
The Schengen visa application form uses " sponsor " in the following context : Cost of travelling and living during the applicant 's stay is covered : [ ] by the applicant himself/herself [ ] by a sponsor ( host , company , organization ) , please specify : - [ ] referred to in field 31 or 32 - [ ] other ( please specify ) Since you 're not paying your own costs , you should n't check " by the applicant himself/herself " , and thus whoever is actually paying should be put down as a sponsor . I would check " other " , and explain the details in words on a separate sheet . You 'll want to attach some evidence of your father 's economic situation which makes it plausible that he can and will fund your trip . Apart from that , do n't sweat it . As long as you 're actually providing clear , complete and truthful information about the circumstances of your planned trip , and it does n't look like you 're trying to hide something , they 're not going to refuse the application simply because you put the information in this field of the form rather than that .
Are you marrying a US citizen ? If not I doubt it will matter . Just update them when you get married or send them an email informing that you are getting married . If you are marrying a US citizen then that can cause problems since part of the student F-1 visa is to prove your ties to India and that you plan to return there after your studies .
Your question reminds me of a quote from a quantum mechanics teacher I once had : Only after teaching a subject twice , one may begin to understand it . Apart from hosting the occasional Couchsurfer , I have no experience myself in being a tourist guide . But I guess : to become a better tourist guide , be a tourist guide . I think in many places , tourist guides are often student jobs , relying not ( only ) on professionals but also a lot of amateurs . Therefore , if you 're genuinely interested in becoming a better tourist guide , you could apply to be one in your own city or region , maybe during the summer months ( or weeks ) . I 'd expect that this means following a few classes and then heading out in the city centre . You 'll tell the same story on every trip but might get different questions on every trip , that you would need to figure out . That 's probably a highly effective way to learn the touristic information for your city or region .
Definitely not the platzkart ! I 'm serious , you 'll never get a calm trip if you are in there . Platzkart has additional side places across the train , so it 's up to 52 people there in a car compared with 4 * 9 = 36 people in kupe car . Also , if you have an upper place ( the even one ) , you simply can go upstairs , and rest for whole trip ( yes , there is a probability that your neighbors will try to speak with you , but it 's much less than in platzkart . Also in kupe you have doors to close and remove outer noises , which you ca n't do in platzkart .
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
Acceptable medical insurance for a schengen visa must meet following criteria : Medical coverage of at least Euro 30,000 ( valid in all schengen countries ) Must cover emergency medical evacuation and repatriation of remains . However some embassies/consulates of Schengen Countries requires a " grace period " which will be added to the validity period . This means that 15 days will be added to your visa 's validity . Please note , that validity period and duration of stay is not the same . An example : if you in your application form applied for a 8 days visa , you will always be given 15 days of grace , in total 23 days . And answer to your first question Does hungary follow the same rule of additional 15 days ? The best answer you can get from Hungry Embassy/Consulate at your home country . Moreover not all Schengen countries applies this requirement and you have already made 23 days travel insurance , does n't matter Hungry requires additional 15 days or not it should be acceptable.It will not be a problem .
From <URL> : Changing flight awards Contact American Airlines Reservations for assistance with changing a flight award ticket . Changes to the origin or destination or airline For MileSAAver awards , origin or destination changes to the itinerary will incur a change fee of $ 150 , even when retaining the same award type For awards involving travel on other airlines , origin or destination changes or changes to the airline ( s ) in the itinerary will incur a change fee of $ 150 , even when retaining the same award type For AAnytime awards , origin or destination change fees are waived only when retaining the same award type The change fee will be waived for Executive Platinum members using miles from their account Reinstating flight awards You can request to have your AAdvantage mileage reinstated for a wholly unused AAdvantage award ticket and if the ticket has not expired The reinstatement charge is $ 150 per account for the first award ticket . Additional award tickets reinstated to the same account at the same time will have a $ 25 charge per ticket This fee will be waived for Executive Platinum members using miles from their account
Here 's my take , which is n't actually based on anything empirical as much as about a decade living on the East Coast : If you 're along the Acela corridor , served by the Acela Express and the Northeast Regional lines , your best bet is probably the train . This is rooted by two experiences : Boston Logan is built out in what is essentially the Atlantic Ocean . It also has delays and closures at the drop of a hat . I hated flying out of Logan in the winter . During the massive snow emergency last year ( Winter 2010 ) in the Eastern U.S. , the trains kept running long after the airports shut down . One train I was on was indeed crowded with people from canceled airline flights trying to make it to their destinations , and it was so apparent that Amtrak actually ran a print ad campaign in some East Coast cities about it .
When you take an overnight train in Russia and you book a sleeping compartment ( there are two classes of these ) , the compartments come with a mattress and a pillow . For the additional option you have asked about , , an attendant will come around and deliver a bottom sheet , top sheet , a pillow case , and a blanket . It 's impeccably sanitary and well-advised for this reason . If you do not purchase the option you get the standard mattress and uncased pillow , less sanitary . You do not get the previous passenger 's stuff ( except his detritus ) ; previously used bed clothing gets collected by the attendant .
It seems to be a <URL> ; you can find it on the <URL> website .
<URL> Non-Muslims are strictly prohibited from entering the city of Mecca . Road signs to guide non-Muslims are provided . The minimum penalty is deportation from the country . Documentation will be checked upon entry and anyone not showing proof of being Muslim will be refused entry . As a solitary exception , the Mecca bus terminal ( outside city limits ) is open to all . More : If you remain on the main highway , there is a police checkpoint just after the exit , where non-Muslims are kept out of the holy city . Actually this is decision of Allah and he stated in Quran : " Oh you who believe ! Truly the idolaters are unclean ; so let them not , after this year , approach the Sacred Mosque "
Checked with a few colleagues that have been through the interview ... The interview is done by CBP ( Customs and Border Patrol ) . The questions seem to vary , but mainly cover your travel patterns , countries you 've been to , employment/employer , etc. . Total time for the interview was around 15-20min , including watching a short video , and a sample of how to use the GE kiosk . None took any other documentation , and none were asked for any . It sounds like a business card may not hurt if you have one , but that 's about it .
Yes , website that reference those codes do exist . CouponsHelper is an example . Better than referring to a website , I suggest installing the <URL> if you use Firefox as your web browser . Basically , every time you come across a website that has coupon number entry , a prompt appears on the top of the browser with known working coupon numbers for that website . It works with various retailers , including travel-related services . For instance , codes are suggested when booking a ticket on the French railways website .
Shamelessly converting <URL> in a answer , <URL> is a website which allows you to compare diving prices by location ( <URL> ) , and <URL> . They even have <URL> .
end question
start question
Where can I find a local guide for Japan ?
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
The cheapest solution I 've been able to find was the <URL> ( Italian only , sorry ) which is a nice camping not so far from downtown Mantova . It 's actually a 15 mins walking from almost every place in Mantova with an event associated to the festival . The camping is provided with plenty of space to plant your tent , a common area where you can have your meals and recharge your phone/laptop/whatever batteries and toilets and showers with hot water . The cost for one night is 5 $ , 15 $ if you plan to stay all the 5 days the festival last . Parking the car is free of charge .
The vast majority of UK rail fares are " settled " between <URL> through a central system called the <URL> ( RSP ) . When you do a search on <URL> you will see RSP fares ( some exceptions may include some <URL> fares ) . TOCs can discount certain TOC-only Advance fares ( i.e. Advance fares that are for routes wholly within their TOC franchise area ) in order to attract customers to book directly with them rather than with a third-party retailer like TheTrainline ( or another TOC ) . The TOC still has to pay the full pre-agreed price through RSP , meaning that they will be making a loss on these discounted fares ( offsetting the loss as a marketing cost because the customer is likely to book directly with them again in future ) . Rather than selling tickets to individual customers , " rail-appointed agents " are usually <URL> buying tickets on behalf of corporate travellers ( see <URL> ) . My understanding is that agents can only issue fares via RSP just like any TOC or online third-party retailer , and do not have access to any special fares . It is therefore likely that you have discovered some sort of anomaly and it is not actually possible to purchase the fare . However , if you are able to provide further information about the TOC and the fare in question I will be able to provide a more precise answer . The regulation of fares and the franchising system in general is a mess and there are some odd exceptions to the rules , and so it would be worth providing more detail . To answer your question about Loco2 , if and when we start selling UK rail we would unfortunately be unlikely to be able to offer any special fares , only what is available in RSP ( i.e. the prices you see on National Rail or TheTrainline etc ) . A " rail-appointed travel agent " is an offline agent , whereas as a third-party online retailer ( whilst still an " agent " ) connects its software to the RSP system somehow . Loco2 would count as the latter .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
Buses are leaving from the Ortachala bus station 4 buses a week 20 Lari from Tbilisi to Baku Source : <URL> For times and confirmation of the service , I would still go over to the bus station . The <URL> also mentions buses from Marneuli ( 30km south of Tbilisi ) to Baku .
I tried it in my recent trip to Seoul . You can buy the SIM card from KT olleh and use it for tethering . I asked the staff at counter if I can use tethering , and she kindly replied " Yes " . And now I 'm writing this answer on my MacBook via tethering . It 's 4G/LTE , unlimited , and likely no speed cap or restriction , but for me it seems a bit slow , but OK . By the way , <URL> says the following but it is NOT correct : SIM card rental They rent out a data-only prepaid SIM and a general prepaid SIM with voice and data . Both SIMs include " unrestricted " data use during the rental period . You need to link your credit card and in case of loss 10,000 will be charged . Remember , you need to give or sent back their SIM . Rental rates for both SIM cards are : for 5 days : 25,000 for 10 days : 35,000 for 30 days : 65,000 Actually , only prepaid SIM with voice and data is a rental type . Data-only SIM is purchasable and does n't need to be returned . I purchased the data-only SIM . The price is the same for both cards , for your information .
Disclaimer : This isnt specifically in Kyoto . It 's about 1h by train/car from Kyoto Station . The <URL> could be what you 're looking for . It 's located in Kobe , near Osaka . The museum features LOTS of information and displays on how woodworking and carpentry evolved from prehistoric Japan all the way to modern days . The building is gorgeous and there are plenty of examples of the different techniques demonstrated . You can also borrow a very thorough audio guide that completes the visit very nicely ( Which I highly recommend you do ) . A bonus point is that , while in Kobe , you can eat some amazing Kobe Beef !
A quick Google search got me to <URL> with Krakow city guide . The map is pretty detailed and is in image form already so you can print it easily . Since I 've already been to Krakow , I can tell you that this map is quite adequate if you plan on visiting major attractions and explore the city center .
Google Maps now supports mass transit navigation in Berlin , so there 's no need to use external apps . <URL>
Obviously , the best book for you depends a lot on what you are looking for . Many criteria are to be taken into account : the place ( s ) you 'll go to : some books will cover only the capital , other will cover the main cities and other will cover the countryside as well . the duration of your trip ( many books are explicitely for trips of a couple of days ) the kind of tourist you are : what are you really looking for ( cultural visits , natural landscapes , relaxation ) how much are you willing to spend on your trip ( many books are for backbackers and might be irrelevant for a family trip ) : the transportation , the places to sleep/drink/eat / visit and the can be really different how much cultural background you want to know : a few small sentences in the foreign language ; the whole history of the country ; a description of the culture you 'll be living in . All those things can make a difference and might or might not be relevant to you how you want to use your guide : read the whole thing before the trip , open it at random once you are there , etc how you want to find the information in your guide : sorted by city/price/type of activity many other things In any case , if you are in the shop , it 's worth opening the different books to see if they really talk about what you are looking for and if it seems good to you ( which is mostly of matter of personal preferences ) . If you are front of your computer , you can still have a look at the readers reviews ( on Amazon for instance ) even if it might not be really accurate as one usually tries only one guide per trip/destination . Finally , after a while , you might get used to a specific type of guide and feel more comfortable with it . As for me , I 'm really used to the " Guides du Routard " ( French collection ) and I 'm not really fond of the " Lonely Planet " .
Japanese schools differ by area . In Hokkaido , the long winter means longer winter holidays . Opposite applies in the south . Public holidays are universal though , inc Golden Week . From my experience holidays are usually end Mar / start April , August and mid / end Dec to early January . New school year starts in April .
Broadly speaking , tea plantation tourism is not a thing in Japan , for multiple reasons : the picking season is short ( as little as ten days , although Kagoshima squeezes in 4-5 harvests per year ) , they do n't want tourists in the way of the giant lumbering machines that do the bulk of the harvesting , and traditionally the places that process , roast , package and sell tea are separate from those that actually grow it . But ! After way too much searching , I found one group in Kagoshima that organizes tea tours : <URL> ( 茶寿会 ) , who in season run " green tourism " tours every couple of days that tour a live tea plantation and sample some fresh produce , for a token & yen ; 200 per head . Two major catches : you need a group of at least 15 people , and you will likely need a Japanese speaker to book and accompany you . If this sounds like too much hassle , you can pay a visit to <URL> ( 大野岳 ) , from whose viewing platform at the 466m summit you get a panoramic view of all the tea fields around you .
For 2012 , it would seem you 're out of luck by official routes . The <URL> describes the ticketing structure and process , and the final dates have indeed passed . A <URL> reveals at least one seller of tickets , but I 'd be very cautious buying tickets second-hand - not that it ca n't be done though .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
According to <URL> and <URL> there is no visa on arrival for Thai citizens at any location including South Sinai airport ( which I am guessing refers to Sharm el-Sheikh ) . So even if the website you linked states otherwise you should consider <URL> as an authoritative source for the airline .
In Netherlands there is this <URL> The entire airplane has been converted into a single luxury suite for two guests . This means you have the complete craft at your disposal -- including its top-flight facilities , which include a Jacuzzi , separate shower , infrared sauna , mini bar , 3 flat screen televisions , blu-ray DVD player with a comprehensive collection of DVDs , a pantry with oven/microwave combination , coffee and tea maker , free wireless internet , air conditioning , etc. . PRICE : An overnight stay for 2 persons including a luxury breakfast costs $ 350 . The airplane is available to you from 15:00 on the day of your arrival to 11:00 on the day of your departure . There 's also a <URL>
The monsoon rains generally do not start until the end of May in that part of the world . What this means for you is that , the ocean on the western side of Sri Lanka is generally calm until June . So , I would say any beaches in and around Colombo or below would be great to check out . As a bonus , you might be able to do some " blue whale " watching , if you go to the southern side of Sri Lanka ( <URL> ) .
IGN produces several series of maps covering the whole of France . For hiking , I always use TOP 25 maps ( 1:25000 scale ) . You can <URL> ( Grenoble is <URL> ) , have them print a specific area on demand ( only slightly more expensive and convenient if you want an area that is in between two maps of the regular series ) or <URL> ( the system had many problems at the beginning and it is still somewhat difficult to get around but it 's all there ) . I do n't know about using the site on the go or printing/downloading , I always get paper maps before serious hikes . There are also two other options that I never used . TOP 100 are less detailed but I believe that they have more touristic information ( trails , mountain huts , it 's all there on the TOP 25 maps of course but it 's so detailed that you sometimes need more effort to figure things out ) . TOP 75 maps are new and especially designed for hiking . Unlike the other two , they are not available for the whole country but there is one covering <URL> . Obviously it 's not online but other than that , it could be a good choice for your trip . There are also apparently some mobile applications ( more information in French <URL> and <URL> ) allowing you to download these data and use them on a GPS/mobile device but I never tried any of them .
end question
start question
What kind of weather can I expect in Scotland in the Spring ?
April is actually the driest month in Edinburgh , as you 've found . However , while Edinburgh is considered the ' sunny ' side of Scotland , it still gets 186 days of rain a year on average . It 's WET . So bear that in mind , even if you are going in the driest month . Interestingly , May is like the ' early ' summer - more sunny days than any other month , and hours , despite not being the middle of summer in terms of the earth . I think the Average temperature is misleading - the <URL> , the low being 3 , so I suppose the average is in the middle , but you can certainly expect higher during the day . Now , description . I 've been in summer , winter , and autumn - and the autumn ( October ) is meant to be almost identical to April , so that works out well . It 's darker than London , being further north the sun sets earlier . You can and likely will get strong winds - fierce winds even . And yes , you 'll likely get rain . HOWEVER , when I was there in October , we had 1 day in 6 of which was sunny . It was still chilly , but outdoors most days , even in the rain - we had torrential rain and storm the one night . This was spent mostly in Edinburgh , the highlands , Isle of Skye , and Fort William , but from what we heard , it was dismal in most places - but it does n't matter if you go in expecting it . It did n't stop us hiking , exploring ruins , lochs and cities . The only thing it prevented was a view of Ben Nevis as we drove by - the cloud was too low . So go prepared for bad weather , bring good wind-proof jackets , but hey , you could get lucky , and then it 'll seem like a bonus !
You have to follow both , i.e. stay at most 28 days at some time between 02/08/2015 and 13/09/2015 . Therefore , you can not stay longer than 28 days on this visa in any event and if you have not used your 28 days by the 13th of September , you must leave anyway . You also have to respect the number of entries , which means that if you enter some time in August and leave a few days later , you can not use this visa anymore and you lose the benefit of the rest of the maximum period of stay . 09/08/2015 to 05/09/2015 is indeed 28 days and within the period of validity of your visa , so that 's fine . In principle , the conditions of your visa should be based on the information you submitted with your application and allow you to complete your trip as intended . The validity is typically a little longer to give you some flexibility .
The monsoon rains generally do not start until the end of May in that part of the world . What this means for you is that , the ocean on the western side of Sri Lanka is generally calm until June . So , I would say any beaches in and around Colombo or below would be great to check out . As a bonus , you might be able to do some " blue whale " watching , if you go to the southern side of Sri Lanka ( <URL> ) .
Indonesia uses European-style two-pin round plugs ( ' C ' - type is the most common variant found ) : Voltage is at 220 V 50 Hz ( as opposed to 110 V 60 Hz in US ) . Most modern electronic equipment that has auto-sensing capability should work without needing a voltage converter , you will need a plug adapter though which can buy cheap online . As for Apple products specifically have a look at <URL> .
Do n't pack anything . You 'll find much cheaper , and probably better , plug adapters all over India . Expect to pay Rs 15-30 for simple ones that just accommodate US-style plugs , and Rs 40-50 for full universal ones . You can find them at any general store/convenience store in major cities and tourist locations , but might get a better selection at electrician 's shops .
Like American Thanksgiving , Canadian Thanksgiving is largely a family affair . You wo n't find outdoor celebrations , fireworks displays , or anything like that to the same extent that you would on July 1st or Victoria Day . However there can be major events coinciding with Thanksgiving . If you happen to be in Kitchener , Ontario , you can take part in the <URL> ( the biggest being Munich of course ) with a parade , massive beer tents , barrel racing , and more schnitzel and sauerkraut than you know what to do with . Canadian Thanksgiving is also somewhat tied to harvest celebrations , so you will find farming and pumpkin related events going on . Here 's <URL> . A lot of things will be closed on the Monday . Schools and anything government-related , supermarkets and most stores . Some restaurants close but some do not . Most tourist-related things are open , although bear in mind this is outside the tourist season for many parts of Canada . Here is <URL> . TL ; DR What 's open ? No government , few stores , some restaurants , most tourism . But check .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
what is expected of me while I stay there If someone carries your luggage to your room , they expect a tip ( $ 1 to $ 2 per bag ) . It 's also customary to leave a tip for the maid ( $ 1 to $ 3 per day ) . Otherwise , it 's really the other way round : it 's the job of the hotel staff to meet your expectations ( within reasonable bounds ) - you 're paying , after all . what is provided for me and what I should bring The <URL> can give you some idea of what you can expect . The hotel will provide towels , and you can get new ones every day ( nowadays there 's usually a sign that says to leave the towels on the floor if you want new ones ) . Bedsheets will be changed at least once per week , and the room cleaned daily . They usually also provide small packages of things like toothpaste and shampoo , but not necessarily enough for a stay longer than a few days . There may be a clothes cleaning service , but you 'll have to ask for it . Many ( but not all ) hotels have hair driers in every bathroom . You should bring any other appliances you need . Nowadays , many hotels have some sort of internet connection in the rooms , but it may or may not be free . If you have booked the room with breakfast included it will be served in a dining room in a fixed time frame ( e.g. between 7AM and 10AM ) . is there any gotcha that I should keep on the look out for ? There is a " check-in time " ( typically late afternoon ) - you probably can not get into your room before that time when you arrive , as it may still be need to cleaned up after the previous guest . Correspondingly , on the day you leave you have to vacate the room and " check out " at the reception before a certain time ( usually 10AM or 11AM ) - if you do n't , you may have to pay for an extra day . If you arrive before the check-in time or leave significantly after check-out time , most hotels offer to store your luggage for you while you spend the time somewhere else ( at no extra cost ) . Many hotels have a " minibar " in the rooms , which is a small fridge containing various beverages . These usually cost extra ( prices are listed on the fridge door or a leaflet somewhere ) and may be very expensive . But this seems to have gone out of fashion and I 've seen a lot of empty minibars ( which can be useful to keep your own stuff in ) . The maid will come into your room every day to clean up - usually around noon . You can hang a sign on the door handle if you 're in the room and do n't want to be disturbed , and they 'll come back some other time . Theoretically they could steal things from you ; this is very rare , but many hotels have installed a small safe in every room to deposit exceptionally valuable items .
I would say no , not on the roads or paths , but there is only one thing you can expect from Iceland 's weather - that it 's unpredictable . Last year I 've been to þingvellir in late February and there was no snow on roads or paths , unless you drove through the mountains . However , this year the winter they have is so fierce , they consider <URL> ! I recommend these websites when planning trips : <URL> <URL> Have fun ! Iceland is a truly beautiful place .
I traveled most of the Panamerica by public bus in 2008-2010 . A normal car should be sufficient for the main road even though south of Mexico is is usually a 2-lane affair and can be pretty windy in the mountains and you ca n't go too fast . However you may want to leave the Panamerica for some side trips and the smaller roads are often not in the best condition . But normal cars are used by the locals everywhere .
October in Japan is going to be a lot like October in Europe and America , namely autumn . In Tokyo , <URL> , mostly clear skies but occasional rain , beautiful autumn foliage . Personally , late September/early October is one of my favorite seasons to be in Japan , second only to cherry blossom season around April . Not too hot , not too cold , and off-peak so not too many tourists . But if you 're expecting beach weather , then sorry , you 'll only find that at the southernmost tip around Okinawa ... and since Japan is a long and skinny country , there might already be a dusting of snow up in northern Hokkaido . There 's one catch though : October is the tail end of typhoon season in Japan , which could make a cruise pretty unpleasant ( and explains the high precipitation readings on the chart linked to above ) . However , the peak is Aug-Sep and the typhoons usually hit the Pacific side of the islands , not the Japan Sea side you 'll presumably be sailing on , so odds are pretty high you 'll be OK .
I do n't know what the law is , but when I was on Cuba , I always left my passport in the hotel safe and carried a copy . I spent some hours in a police station in Havana but I do n't think anybody ever wanted to see my passport . Many Europeans also have an identity card , I often carry that with me as a form of authentication . It does n't help you to get into the country , but it is a legal document and can be helpful if you have to deal with the authorities .
Here 's my own answer : It 's OK to ride a bicycle on any road in Switzerland except an Autobahn/Autostrasse . These are easy to recognize ( for Americans ) because they 're akin to interstate highways in the U.S. : Limited access points , multiple lanes each direction , and high speeds . You 're not that likely to accidentally enter one on a bicycle . You can also recognize them by this sign : Given that the road 12 I was asking about was only single-lane each way , had low speed limits , and had numerous businesses and houses with street-front access , it was pretty clearly not an Autobahn or Autostrasse . As best I can tell , the road I rode on was the " old " highway 12 between Bern and Fribourg before the Autobahn/Autostrasse was built and also given a designation of 12 . We do that kind of thing here the U.S. as well , but we usually remove the designation from the old road .
<URL> : 6:00 to 23:50 ( time of departure from each terminus , arrival 15 -- 20 minutes later at the end station , if I understand the automatic translation from Turkish correctly ) <URL> : 6:00 to 23:40 ( time of departure from each terminus , with an extra train from Kızılay 0:20 to Ostim 0:40 )
For the visa part , the rules are ( <URL> ) : Visitors continuing their journey to a third country within 72 hours can obtain a Shore Pass/Transit Pass on arrival , provided : being able to prove to Japanese immigration that Shore/Transit Pass will be appropriately used ; and departing from the same airport of arrival ; or departing from a different airport ( or seaport ) in the district of the airport ( or seaport ) of arrival , provided both ports are located within the same group as listed below . Group A : Airports : Narita ( NRT ) , Haneda ( HND ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) , Niigata ( KIJ ) , Komatsu ( KMQ ) and Yokota . Seaports : Tokyo , Yokohama , Niigata and Nagoya ; Group B : Airports : Kansai International ( KIX ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) and Komatsu ( KMQ ) . Seaports : Kobe and Nagoya . Group C : Airports : Fukuoka ( FUK ) , Nagasaki ( NGS ) , Kumamoto ( KMJ ) , Kagoshima ( KOJ ) , Naha ( OKA ) and Kadena . Seaports : Hakata ( Fukuoka ) , Shimonoseki and Naha ( Okinawa ) . Group D : Airport : Chitose ( CTS ) . Seaports : Tokakomai , Otaru , Hakodate and Muroran . Additional Information : Tokyo ( NRT ) closes at 11:00 pm.Visa required passengers intending to transit overnight , must hold a transit visa or obtain a Shore Pass in order to clear Immigration . Under those rules , you should be able to obtain a transit pass on arrival at Narita and venture out of the airport .
As a native Londoner : The weather in the UK is notoriously variable , so the only way to know for sure is to check nearer the time . But it 's likely to be around freezing , maybe as low as -10 C or as high as +10 C. I would certainly bring some warm clothes . Snow is possible , but does n't happen every year . If the weather is very cold or snowy , prepare for potential public transport delays . London is normally dressed up for Christmas , yes . You should find Piccadilly Circus/Oxford Street in particular will have Christmas decorations up . Depending on how close it is to Christmas , prepare for potential crowding in some popular tourist areas ( e.g. Oxford Street is often busy ) . London has a lovely atmosphere around Christmas , though . Hope you enjoy your trip ! Like all enormous cities , plenty will be happening . <URL> is a good place to look for events / restaurants / etc. .
Those machines seem to have been quite common . Here is a photo of one : There were even patented , but unfortunately <URL> does not reveal the financial background . From this <URL> however , you can read about the process of making such a purchase : The policy set out across the top the following specifications : " Do Not Purchase More Than a Total of $ 62,500 Principal Sum -- Nor for Travel on Other Than Scheduled Air Carriers . This Policy Covers on One-Way Trip Only Unless Round Trip Ticket Is Purchased Before Departure . " Below this printed statement a box form provided for the insertion on appropriate lines of the insured 's name , the name and address of the beneficiary , the point of departure and destination , the extent of the trip as on a one-way or round-trip ticket , the date , the principal sum of insurance ( $ 62,500 ) , the amount of the premium ( $ 2.50 ) , and the insured 's signature . The evidence does not clearly show whether at the time of purchase the aperture of the vending machine disclosed the entire top portion of the policy , including the printed warning as to amount and coverage for travel on " scheduled air carriers , " or merely the form for the personal data and flight information to be furnished by the purchaser . After obtaining the policy , Mr. Steven , using the envelope provided by the machine , mailed it to his wife . The court case however points already to the difficulties of such an insurance and the issues that arise . <URL> that quotes this court case as an example of these issues . This was an issue specially because such flight insurance was available routinely at airports across the USA as <URL> .
Although I agree 35L can be enough if you only intend to carry two changes of clothes and some small gear , I 'm not sure you 'll be comfortable enough having most of your things hanging outside your backpack ( and this will be the case for at least your tent , your sleeping mat - either on top or bottom of your bag - , and maybe your stove and tins . Even your shoes , if it 's summer ) . You can put your camera , your first aid kit ( bring one ! ) and your clothes inside . You 'll still be fine with a 35L , but if you are also bringing food and water you might consider a 50L . It really depends on what sort of trip you are planning , what places you want to visit and what 's available around those . You 'll still have to carry whatever you chose to bring , but backpacks do n't have much weight by themselves so a bigger one is not that costly .
According to <URL> there is an Iranian embassy in Tbilisi so you should be able to apply for a visa .
To start with , you should ask the company before you pay . On the other hand , it really depends which area of the world you are going to . Law and customs are quite different in different areas of the world . Whereas in the western countries I would expect the operator to have some basic level of insurance cover for accidents , I would expect exactly the opposite in most of the developing countries . You still should double check with the company ( guide ) to make sure that the level of cover is satisfactory for you .
end question
start question
How do I evaluate the HHonors " Earning Style " options ?
A lot of this depends on how you value your points . First of all , fixed miles is a bad deal unless your stays are all of only one night at Hampton/Homewood ( and even then , unless you have a rate below 100 dollars all the time , it 's a questionable choice ) , or ~ 2-3 nights at other properties ( total dollar value of stay < 500 ) . Variable miles gives you 1 mile/dollar spent , whereas fixed is a rate of 100/500 per stay depending on the property type . At this point , you need to figure out the relative value of 5 HHonors points versus 1 Delta SkyMile . People value points differently , depending on their travel preferences . The best way to do things is to price out a few different hypothetical trips you might want to use your miles for , whether that be a flight to see family for Thanksgiving , or that dream vacation to Bangkok . Figure out the cost in points for each , and compare it to the cost in dollars to come up with a value per/point . The internet consensus , for the most part , seems to be that Delta miles are worth somewhere in the range of <URL> HHonors points , by contrast , are considered to be worth around <URL> However , as I mentioned , your own travel patterns will effect this heavily . If you mainly want to use the rewards to fly to visit family , you probably wo n't need a hotel - your valuation of miles is probably a bit higher . If you 're fond of taking road trips , and eschewing airports , maybe hotel nights are of more use - especially when you can use them at some low-demand locations with really favorable rewards rates along an interstate in the middle of nowhere . Do the math and decide for yourself .
Several restaurants offer Thanksgiving Dinners , with prices ranging from roughly # 20 to # 130 . Some can be found with brief descriptions at the links below . <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> allows ' today ' flight searches . You should also be able to make bookings with airlines on their websites directly .
No . Any open fire requires a permit . A campsite might operate a communal campfire on special occasions , but guests are not allowed to light their own campfires . Reference : Icelandic Tourist Board , guidelines for campsites , section 5.7 : <URL> Það er stranglega bannað að kveikja eld á opnum svæðum . Leyfi frá lögreglu þarf ef fyrirhugað er að kveikja bálköst / varðeld á svæðinu . Loosely translated : It is illegal to light a fire in an open area . Permit from the police is required for lighting a bonfire / campfire in the area .
The views are pretty sweet from some of the hotels . Here 's one from a room that cost me $ 25 extra for a " falls view room " : Really , it 's from the room : I 'm pretty sure it was the Sheraton . Update : since someone mentioned the Skylon tower , here 's a shot ( on a fairly old cellphone ) from the restaurant . Go up for dinner on a night they have fireworks , and you can see fireworks from above , which is very cool .
UPDATE : The type of vouchers mentioned in this question no longer exist , and thus this question and all answers for it are no longer relevant to any vouchers that anyone may have ! It sounds like what you 've got is a " Type B " voucher . You should have 5 or 6 pieces of paper - one covering terms and conditions , ( possibly ) one with a summary , and then 4 vouchers , each of which is for $ 100 giving a total of $ 400 . On each of the vouchers it should state " Treat as Type B Voucher " . " Type B " vouchers are basically able to be used as payment for any United/United Express/Continental flight . This is different to many other United vouchers ( aka " E-Certificates " ) which give a " discount " on the fare , rather than being treated as payment for the normal fare . You can use one or more of the $ 100 vouchers on a single booking , although you will not receive any credit for using only part of a voucher . eg , if your flight cost is $ 280 , you can give them 2x $ 100 vouchers and pay $ 80 , or you can give them 3x $ 100 vouchers but you will lose the additional $ 20 . Unfortunately you ca n't book flights with " Type B " vouchers online - you need to go via the United call center . If you 're a Mileage Plus member you can reach them at the number on your card ( which may take you to a dedicated reservations center , depending on your status ) . If you 're not a MP member , you can call 1-800-UNITED-1 ( aka 1-800-864-8331 ) . Note that there is NO charge for a phone booking when using a voucher ! Normally you would be charged to book over the phone , but they will waive this when booking with a voucher . Depending on the agent you get it 's possibly they will try and charge you a fee - if they do , just remind them that you are using a " paper voucher " and they will remove the fee . Once you 've booked your ticket the booking will be placed on hold until you pay for it by getting the voucher ( s ) to United . You can do this by either mailing the vouchers to United ( I 'd suggest registered mail , just in case ! ) or you can take the vouchers to a United ticket counter at any airport . Personally I 'd suggest going to the airport - it may cost you a little more , but it gives you the piece of mind of knowing that the vouchers are n't going to get lost . If your flights are less than 2 weeks away this is the only option they will offer you .
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
So , you 've actually ended up asking multiple questions in one which strictly ( [ faq ] ) you should n't do , but I 'll try to address it as one . In relation to getting there in time for your flight , it depends on the airline you take , what they say , and also how much lee-way you want to give your arrival at the airport . However , yes , you can take ground transportation , and depending on what your plans are it 'd be a consideration . You can get buses directly from Flores to Belize , however , if you 're in Tikal , there 's this from <URL> : Don David 's is fantastic - we were there in January . They will be able to arrange all your transport if you need them to . I have rarely met such helpful people ! The buses to Belize run from Flores / Santa Elena but will pick up at El Cruce which is the main road junction about 20 minutes walk from Don Davids . Alternatively , Don Davids will arrange a ride into Flores . The buses run direct to Belize City with just a stop at the border . We used the service in the other direction with a direct bus from Chetumal to Flores via Belize City . The only advantage in going to Flores is that there is more choice of agents but they are all selling tickets on the same bus services . So you could ask your Tikal Inn if they can do the same , if not , wander over to Casa Don David 's and ask them for help . What about driving ? Some kind person has detailed <URL> ( well they went the other way , but just reverse it ) . <URL> ( Tikal Park ) lists a few flight connections that may be of use to you . And someone else <URL> : Finally , there is <URL> , but be aware the discussion is from a few years back , and may not be up to date . Conclusion - if you 're up for an adventure , I 'd go for the bus ride . Driving sounds like too much hassle . But if you have the time , public transport is always a fun time , or a good story . Much more interesting than just another flight .
As a developer of some search engine for the Amadeus ( one of the major companies who provides the air-tickets search ) , I can say : Yes , you can , but you should find the site working with Amadeus and provides such option to the search . This option is not as popular as flexible-dates-feature , but you still can try to search such sites . I 'll do my best to find them : <URL> - use the " Add nearby airports " checkbox and " Customs " menu . <URL> - the same menu , because the search engine is provided by Amadeus
Unless it is a significant amount , changing coins is n't worth it . The amounts are small and most banks and foreign exchanges wo n't accept coins generally . My solution is to collect the left over foreign coins until I fly on an airline that participates in the <URL> program and then donate them . British Airways and Virgin also have their own programs . It is a great concept as a small amount of foreign coins is n't very valuable to you , but when compounded across thousands of passengers a year , it can make a real difference . If you do n't want to wait until your next flight to donate , many charity shops ( at least in the UK ) accept foreign coins .
From the Ukrainian point of view , <URL> in 2014 . As a result , transport options have been restricted from both the Ukrainian and the Russian side . In addition , it is now necessary to have a Russian visa ( or visa-free passport ) in order to access the Crimean territory . Flights In September 2015 , all flights between Russia/Crimea and Ukraine <URL> . So it would take at least two transfers from Kiev in order to reach Crimea : Bus It 's possible to take a <URL> from Kiev to Sevastopol for ~ 40 $ , however foreigners ( as in , everyone except Ukrainians ) now require a <URL> to cross the Ukraine/Crimea border : On September , 16 , 2015 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed the Resolution No 722 , amending the Procedure for entry to the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and exit from it regarding the entry to and exit from Crimea by foreign nationals , inter alia : Extract from the Para 3 of the Resolution : Foreign nationals can entry and exit from temporary occupied territory of Ukraine through special check points by presenting a passport and special permission issued by territorial body of State Migration Service of Ukraine or territorial body of Department for Migration Service of Ukraine in Novotroitsky or Genichesky district of Kherson oblast . This permission can only be issued to persons having relatives/property in Crimea or <URL> . Therefore this option is probably not reasonable for most travelers . On Foot The land border can be crossed on foot , but that option requires a special permission ( see the section above ) . Trains <URL> connect Ukraine to Crimea , however it 's possible to take a train to the Ukrainian border in the Kherson region . From the border region one could in theory cross on foot ( see the section above ) . Going from Crimea to Ukraine Unless you 've previously acquired the above-mentioned special permission and entered Crimea via Kherson , it 's impossible to cross into Ukraine from Crimea over land . The Ukrainian border guards could either deny you entry or arrest you for illegally entering the Ukrainian territory through Russia . Conclusion Flying via Moscow is probably the only feasible way for most tourists . Note that this option is technically illegal from the Ukrainian point of view , so I would avoid talking about Crimea to Ukrainian border guards in the future .
Assuming you are flying on a regular scheduled flight ( clearly , you are ) , it is always included in the final price of the ticket . It is paid for by the operator ( i.e. the airline ) . Source : <URL> .
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
It is likely that the establishment first offering pizza in NYC is now lost in the mists of time . Having said that , you can check out Lombardi 's Pizza , 22 Spring Street ( at the corner of Spring and Mott ; also a one-time boundary of New York 's Little Italy ) . Lombardi 's has been operating on the same location since 1905 , and for a pizza house , that 's truly amazing . 109 years ! Take the E down town and alight at Spring Street . A if it 's late . While getting your Nathan 's hot dog , you may be able to root around Coney Island and find something with similar roots . That would be the second logical choice after what 's now left of Little Italy . The other contender , and arguably the best known , is Rays Pizza . To my mind Ray 's is the most tasty and I will invariably have one each time I 'm in Manhattan . But Ray 's claim to being the ' Original ' is somewhat tainted as it began in 1964 , a relative infant in the Big Apple 's pizza scene . Lombardi 's is your best bet , with a recommendation to have a Siciliana style at Ray 's . <URL>
The City of Munich operates a number of indoor ( and outdoor ) swimming pools in and around Munich . These pools are invariably fitted out with changing rooms and showers . There is no need to go swimming if you only want to use the shower , but you will still have to pay the entrance fee . You can peruse a list at <URL> . As for ' reasonable fee ' , swimming pools usually charge about EUR 5 to EUR 10 , depending upon location and facilities available ( e.g. , sauna ) .
I 've done the Pamir Highway in the summer of 2014 . It 's hard to answer the question how long it takes because it 's not a road for getting from A to B but it 's an experience in itself and you may want to spend as long as you can up there . There are several points to think about before heading out : Which route ? do you want to take , there are several options from Khorog , you can go south along the Afghan border to the Wakhan valley and then turn north to join the M41 . You can go north via the Bartang River or along the Shokh Dara valley . The most direct route is to leave Khorog on the M41 and stay on it all the way to Osh in Kyrgyzstan . I think all of them are worth taking , you could do the Southern loop and come back to Khorog and then do the M41 . How to travel ? , the easiest way is to hire a jeep with a driver . This will be expensive , if you can find other people to form a group , it may be affordable , I was originally planning to do this , but never found more than one other person to join me . Using shared taxis ( usually SUVs , but also old Opels ) only gets you so far . You can get from Khorog to Ishkashim , or Murgab to Sary Tash , but you have to be very lucky to find them in the remote areas of the Pamirs , there are just not enough people travelling there . You can try to hitch , usually all cars and mini-buses still charge you something . On the M41 between Khorog and Murgab there are a few trucks every hour going to China . I hitched with several of them and they never wanted money . But in the Wakhan valley and between Murgab and Kyrgyzstan there are no trucks and very few cars . I remember one morning waiting at the side of the road not seeing a car for four hours either way . And finally you can cycle or walk . I started walking early in the morning and by 11 am when it got really hot I started hitching until I reached the next place with a homestay . How often to stop ? Besides Khorog only Murgab has one hotel . There are basic guest houses in Eshkashim and Jelandy , but otherwise it 's all homestays and there are not so many villages on the way . The tourist office in Khorog has a list of homestays , but I never used it . Whenever I got to a village it was easy to find a family that would take me in . There are many places to stop and do side trips on the way . Lots of hiking opportunities . I spent 17 days in the Pamir region , not long enough . If you have a hired jeep you can make it in two or three days from Khorog to Osh , but then you would n't stop much .
This wiki is a very good source of info : <URL> Many companies offer prepaid SIM cards . <URL> is a good option . I use a <URL> SIM card , which is a re-branded blau card that is sold for 5 $ in Netto grocery stores ; other discount grocery stores ( Lidl , ALDI , etc ) have their own offerings . A one-month data plan will cost 10-15 $ . I just saw an ad for what appears to be an amazing deal from Telekom ( the largest operator ) that seems to include unlimited use of the Telekom network for only 10 $ per month : <URL>
There is a similar exchange for hitch-hikers in Norway called <URL> . I have n't used it , but I would find it strange if you find any offers for a ride on an odd route like Kiruna-Tromsø on a specific date . You can of course place your own ad to tell that you are looking for a ride , but I do n't think the site is well known and much in use . Even if you got a catch , I am not sure if I would rely on an offer if you really need to be in Tromsø on time to get your flight . If you are looking for other options , I have a few suggestions : The first one is pretty tight , but since the new train schedule adds almost two hours to the journey time from Stockholm to Narvik , there is at least a chance that the train will not run late so often . Train from Kiruna Central ( dep 12:33 ) to Katterat ( arr 15:06 ) Taxi from Katterat to Trældal ( 27km , appr . 25 Minutes ) Bus from Trældal ( dep ~ 15:55 ) to Tromsø ( arr 19:50 ) You probably have to pre-order a taxi to Katterat station and perhaps check if the bus stops in Trældal ( I would be very surprised if it did not ) . Another option is that if any of the car rental companies in Kiruna by chance have a car with Norwegian license plates present , you may get a good deal if you take it back to Norway for them . Otherwise , cross-border one-way-fees are usually very high .
That 's a lot of questions , son . The cheapest way to stay in touch with your family is to install <URL> or an equivalent service on your phone , and then call from some place with wifi . If you both use Skype , it 's absolutely free even for video calls ; if you use Skype to call their mobile or landline phone , you 'll pay a few cents per minute . Just be sure to use wifi , not roaming , or the data costs will be murderous ! Here 's the basic logic : since it 's you who 's roaming ( = in a different country ) , you pay all the extra charges if somebody calls you or you call someone . In other words , if your family calls or texts you , they pay for the call/text to Canada ( because that 's where your number is ) , and Bell will then charge you for forwarding the call/text to the US at some astronomical rate . If you get a US SIM card , you now have a new number in the US . ( And since your old SIM card is no longer in the same phone , it 's now unreachable ; you need to tell everybody your new number . Of course you can always swap it back when you return . ) If your family calls/texts your new US number , they pay the cost of the international call ; if you call out to Canada , you pay . One catch : you need to ensure that your phone is " unlocked " , so it 's allowed to change SIMs . Call up your operator and ask . There 's absolutely no point in getting a new phone , all you need is the SIM . I 'm currently visiting the US and have been reasonably happy with AT&amp;T 's <URL> ( link to random but informative blog post ) , which you can get set up for $ 20 or so , although you 'll probably want to pay $ 25 extra for 1 GB of data . Then a major caveat at the end : the above is how things work in 99 % of the world . The US , Canada and other <URL> countries are kind of messed up , since they share the same country code and they do n't distinguish between mobile and landline numbers , making it generally impossible to figure out where any given phone number is actually located and thus complicating the normal logic of " caller pays only for where they think they are calling " ... so while you 're guaranteed to get reamed if you roam anywhere in the world , in the US/Canada/NANPA it 's possible that people calling you get reamed as well . Yay for telcos !
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
end question
start question
Is the sleeper train from Hong Kong to Shanghai an enjoyable experience ?
Of course this highly depends on what you deem enjoyable . Also , if you have never experienced any sleeper train , it 's hard to know whether you are in general the kind of person who would enjoy that . Having said that , I found the Chinese sleeper trains to be surprisingly comfortable . There are , however , several different classes . <URL> has details on which classes are available . ( Side note : Chinese trains in general surprised me . The Shanghai-Suzhou train was actually more comfortable/modern than a recent German ICE . ) While I did n't take this particular train , I experienced both a " soft sleeper " and a " hard sleeper " on different routes ( Nanjing-Zhengzhou and Zhengzhou-Taiyuan , respectively ) . Soft sleeper basically means you can shut a door and beds are fairly comfortable . Hard sleeper are n't as hard as it sounds , but they can be quite crammed ( in my case , three beds stacked vertically ) and since they are open to the aisle there 's next to no privacy . This picture was taken by me crammed in the top bed in a hard sleeper carriage : However , this was still okay for me for one night . This is probably as bad as it gets . Now compare this to the pictures in the mentioned Wikipedia article . I envy you already ! That train looks really modern and comfortable . As for " doing some activities " , if that means doing concentrated work , I would n't expect to be able to do that . Reading a book , looking outside , playing a card game with some kids , sure . In conclusion , Chinese sleeper trains are actually quite comfortable and I would recommend travelling with them as it can be a great experience ! The only thing you should plan well is getting the ticket , since there are times when they are sold out really fast . Maybe someone can elaborate on the situation on this particular route . ( Actually , me taking that hard sleeper train was just the result of the soft sleepers being booked out . )
The historic principality of Jammu and Kashmir is split between the Pakistani Azad Kashmir ( ' free Kashmir ' ) and the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir . India and Pakistan have fought wars over the control of Kashmir and you can absolutely not cross the line of control which serves as the de facto border . Not only that , but as a foreigner you are are not even allowed to enter Azad Kashmir although with a little luck you can still do so . Pakistani-controlled Kashmir also suffered from a devastating earthquake in 2005 and even if you do manage to enter , be aware that it will not have completely recovered . Travel in Indian-controlled Kashmir is possible , if somewhat restricted due to violence between the Indian military and Kashmiris who do not wish to be part of India . Getting to either Kashmir from Europe is fairly straightforward and there are two obvious routes , the northern and the southern . Note that the ' middle ' Caucasus route is not viable due to war , closed borders and general instability in the north Caucasus . North : if you are in Russia , then you must travel to China via Mongolia or , preferably , Kazakhstan . China 's Xinjiang province borders Pakistan and the two are connected by the Karakorum highway . Parts of the Karakorum run parallel to the border of Azad Kashmir , so it is a convenient route if that is your destination . You can also follow the Karakorum to Islamabad and from there go to Lahore , which is next to the border crossing between Pakistan and India . South : starting in Turkey , travel through Iran to Zahedan and cross the border to Quetta in Pakistan . From there you can make the long journey to Lahore ( for India ) or Islamabad ( for Azad Kashmir ) . Getting into Azad Kashmir is possible if you avoid detection by the authorities at the internal border . There are minibuses which travel from the towns Mansehra and Murree to Muzaffarabad ( the capital of Azad Kashmir ) and if no one sees you at the checkpoint , you are in . Even so , hotels will immediately report the arrival of a foreigner to the police , so you should make good use of your time before they come to kick you out ! Many tourists in India visit Srinagar , the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir , so getting there is easy enough .
Yes . But be careful of course , timewise , if you have a flight . Your best resource that I 've found for this is <URL> which has a <URL> section . I was there in July but just wanted a view , not a climb , and was coming from Kanazawa on the west coast . We took trains down to Nagoya , and across , and then inland to Fujinomiya . It 's fairly easy - at each point just ask someone if unsure , or if you have a JR wifi pass ( pick it up at any JR station ) we used that to get google maps , and Google tells you exactly which train and routes to take . They 're fairly frequent too so if you miss one , it 's all good . I did all that , still had an hour in Fujinomiya , and still made it to Tokyo by 6pm , so it 's definitely feasible for you . You can approach on the north side and south side like I did , but the Wiki article explains all the options in detail .
During the strike there is restricted timetable - so you maybe have to wait longer , but you can get to Mainz by train . Take S8 or RB/RE to Mainz Main Station ( Mainz Hauptbahnhof ) . According to <URL> S8 will run every hour . Another option would be to get a ride . Check <URL> or <URL> - there are few rides from Frankfurt Airport to Mainz .
As far as I can tell reading on the embassies websites there is no reason for them to stop you at the airport at either destination . With the switch in BKK ( Bangkok ) I believe you will not enter customs and your luggage is automatically forwarded . The people at Bangalore have the option of stopping you if they think you will be refused entry to your destination . If your passport is enough to get you a Visa On Arrival then there is no reason for them to refuse you the flight . Also there is a chance Hong Kong would refuse you if you can not prove your continued itinerary , for that reason there is a chance they will stop you at Bangalore on the same grounds . A return ticket fixes this , or proof of continued traveling to other destination . So bring the usual stuff , your passport and ( return ) tickets . Good luck !
It certainly can be done -- is it reasonable , well that depends on your definition ... You 're going to have two major issues here . Visas You likely need visas for the places you 're visiting ( Russia , Mongolia , China ) , and they will need proof of onwards travel . You 'll likely have to get a specialist to help anyway and the overall visa validity is going to limit your options . Tickets If you do n't speak the local language getting tickets in some smaller places may be problematic -- this does n't mean it 's impossible with some help . However , let me quote from <URL> : But for travel between Russia and Mongolia or China , here 's a reality check : Demand exceeds supply for the two weekly Moscow-Beijing Trans-Mongolian &amp; Trans-Manchurian trains ( trains 4 &amp; 20 ) , also the weekly Moscow-Ulan Bator train ( train 6 ) , especially in the busy May-September peak season . Russian Railways opens bookings to travel agencies 60 days before departure , and Russian travel agencies buy up all the tickets to resell them at a mark-up . Station staff may therefore tell you that these trains are all sold out even if you went to the station the moment bookings opened to the public 45 days before departure , although you may be able to buy tickets if you called one of the agencies . If you want to use these trains , you should pre-book through an agency as shown in option 2 or 3 below . Ulan Bator to Beijing is also a pinch-point , as there are only 2 trains a week , so this too is best booked in advance through an agency . Which does n't mean you ca n't book through an agency from wherever you happen to be staying , but that may prove difficult . You 'll also see that trains are infrequent so if you do n't manage to get on a train be prepared to be stuck wherever you are for a few more days ( and have to pay the costs associated with that ) . Is it going to cost more ? Probably not , if you manage to get tickets at each station . Otherwise it 's difficult to say , prices seem reasonably fixed but if you 're dealing with agencies and booking with short notice it may inflate the price . So , possible -- certainly . Reasonable ? That entirely depends on what sort of traveler you , how much time , money and flexibility you have .
Most retailers in Hong Kong do not accept RMB . The 7-11 stores * have an enlightend policy where they will accept RMB at HKD face value and give you any change in HKD . As HKD are worth less than RMB they make a profit of the exchange rate on the transaction . The <URL> is 1 RMB = 1.25114 HKD ( April 2013 ) , so the 7-11 stores are making an additional 25 % profit for their kindness . Some other sellers MAY accept them but my recollection is that most will not . Trying to use HKD in China is about impossible . Note that in most of Asia NO commission or flat fee is payable . The rate offered applies $ for $ or whatever . In eg Australia they charge an iniquitous up front fee and changing enough to get eg $ 20 for a cofee may give you only $ A5 or less . Utter thievery . While , as uncovery says , there are a very large number of money changers in HK , I have found that banks and specialist big-business money changers offer poor rates and that the best rates of all are offered by a small number of small businesses if you know where to look . I stay in Mong Kok when I am in HK ( noisy , busy , cheap accommodation , more " authentic " than many areas , fun ) and have found a money changer who invariably offers superb rates - about 0.5 % off the actual exchange rate either way . Stunning . Location below . As I wander the city I note the various rate offered and in quite a few visits no other money changer has bested these ones . Taking subway to Yau Ma Tei ( quick cheap ride from city centre ) and exit at A1 and walk West along Pitt Street and you may be at their door - or , see below . Rate assessment : You can instantly determine how good a rate a money changer is offering by asking their cash buy and sell rates between two currencies ( or buy rate each way or sell rate each way , which gives the same result . ) The mean " markup is ~ = ( $ buy - $ sell ) / ( $ buy + $ sell ) Close enough you can use buy-sell difference / $ buy/2 ( = same as buy-sell difference / ( 2 x $ buy ) ) eg if some one is trading HKD-RMB , if they offer 1.2 HKD per RMB if buying RMB ( or selling HKD ) and 1.3 HKD/RMB if selling RMB ( or buying HKD ) Then markup = ( 1.3-1 .2 ) / ( 1.3 +1.2 ) = 0.1 / 2.5 = 4 % The simpler method gives ( 1.3-1 .2 ) / 1.2 / 2 = 0.1 / 2.4 ~ = 4 % close enough . Purists will argue that the true rate is square_root ( $ buy x $ sell ) but , again , the result is not much different . For any given currency pair just look at the buy-sell difference . The smaller the better . ForEx who seem to have booths in all airports and elsewhere offer consistently very terrible rates in my experience . Western Union are not usually very marvellous . Hong Kong 's cheapest rates : Location : Please excuse degree of uncertainty . I will have photos but probably not findable in your time frame . Location is " probably " where two red lines are . I start from Mong Kok proper near subway just above top of picture . Walk down Nathan road and after a few blocks drill in sideways . You can spot them by the queue !!! :-) . Two cashiers AFAIR opening onto street . Two small fast moving queues of happy customers changing all sorts . About 2 or 3 doors along further off Nathan Road on the same side is a Western Union office with 3 cashiers and NO customers !!!!!! :-) . Fast , polite , professional / business like . No Chinese language needed . " 7-11 " stores are unknown in my country ( NZ ) but are much the same as 7-11 stores in the US - corner stores selling food , groceries , drinks etc. ) .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
<URL> says that tickets can be booked on the online website of CFR , the Romanian Railway company . <URL> . Quoting from The Man : How to book trains within Romania [ ... ] You can book Romanian domestic train tickets online at www.cfrcalatori.ro , the Romanian Railways ( CFR ) website , including domestic sleeper trains . It will only book the compulsory-reservation mainline trains , not local services , but it 's easy enough to use and should have no problem with non-Romanian credit cards .
AirBnb : You can host people in your house and they will pay you for it . You should have your house ready to receive guests , like a clean house , good services like air conditioning , heating , be attentive and polite with your guests . Even some hosts give complimentary services , like breakfast , free beer , water or other things . It is like a little hotel with 1 , 2 or 3 rooms . You charge for the services and you have an obligation for good service to them . I would like to say , that you will have to pay taxes for the service . Couchsurfing : You are inviting people to sleep in your house ( sometime it can be just go for a walk with them , not just hosting ) . In that case , you are not " obliged " to get anything ready . Otherwise , it would be very polite from you to have a clean house or good services , but it just depend on you an the guest should not complain for anything , as long as they are not paying for anything . Even sometimes , host can bring you a little present , cook for you or pay a dinner or for drinks if you go out together . But it just happens sometimes . In both cases , you will be rated and shared the experience with the community .
Of course this highly depends on what you deem enjoyable . Also , if you have never experienced any sleeper train , it 's hard to know whether you are in general the kind of person who would enjoy that . Having said that , I found the Chinese sleeper trains to be surprisingly comfortable . There are , however , several different classes . <URL> has details on which classes are available . ( Side note : Chinese trains in general surprised me . The Shanghai-Suzhou train was actually more comfortable/modern than a recent German ICE . ) While I did n't take this particular train , I experienced both a " soft sleeper " and a " hard sleeper " on different routes ( Nanjing-Zhengzhou and Zhengzhou-Taiyuan , respectively ) . Soft sleeper basically means you can shut a door and beds are fairly comfortable . Hard sleeper are n't as hard as it sounds , but they can be quite crammed ( in my case , three beds stacked vertically ) and since they are open to the aisle there 's next to no privacy . This picture was taken by me crammed in the top bed in a hard sleeper carriage : However , this was still okay for me for one night . This is probably as bad as it gets . Now compare this to the pictures in the mentioned Wikipedia article . I envy you already ! That train looks really modern and comfortable . As for " doing some activities " , if that means doing concentrated work , I would n't expect to be able to do that . Reading a book , looking outside , playing a card game with some kids , sure . In conclusion , Chinese sleeper trains are actually quite comfortable and I would recommend travelling with them as it can be a great experience ! The only thing you should plan well is getting the ticket , since there are times when they are sold out really fast . Maybe someone can elaborate on the situation on this particular route . ( Actually , me taking that hard sleeper train was just the result of the soft sleepers being booked out . )
I see that every answer here is going on and on about special , luxury trains . This is specifically what the OP does NOT want . <URL> , trains higher up in the hierarchy are usually costlier . There are some exceptions , such as ' Garib Raths ' where the air-conditioned fares are lower than those of ' Express ' or ' Mail ' trains , but by and large this list shows the hierarchy of trains . Within a specific hierarchy ( such as ' Express ' ) and for a specific fare class such as ' sleeper ' or ' third sleeper ' , the fare is proportional to distance . This implies that for ' regular ' trains , the most expensive fare simply depends upon the distance . This can be found from the list of <URL> .
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
The 35 euro fares are discounted advertised fares that are hard to obtain . Trains between Amsterdam and Paris are more expensive , especially if you have to travel on short notice . A good alternative ( especially if you have time ) is to take the train from Amsterdam to Antwerp , then change trains to the train from Antwerp to Lille . From Lille on you can travel to almost anywhere in France . You really need to ask for this connection , because the railways try to sell as many high speed tickets as possible , just to pay of their high speed investment . From Lille on there are cheaper high speed train connection than the international connections . You can also choose to go for a so called TER connection . If you want to go to Paris for example , you can take the high speed link ( approx . 1 hour ) or you could choose to go take the " slow link " to Maubeuge and switch trains there to Paris ( approx . 4 hours ) .
Yes . Food is served for free inside all coaches of Duronto Express . The food charges are already included in your ticket expense . With what I remember from my last booking in a Sleeper Duronto Coach , I was asked the choice of Vegetarian or Non Vegetarian at the time of booking . In case you missed it , you could just let your coach attendant know about your choice . Happy Journey !
Mark 's answer is right , I just want to add some useful references for you . If you are in Russia , you can use the map engine from biggest Russian search provider , Yandex : <URL> ( <URL> ) . They works perfectly on mobile , so this is quite useful for you . They are similar to GoogleMaps , but are much more detailed for Russian cities . For example , Yekaterinburg : <URL> Another reason to use such engine is an easy search for anything you need in travel : <URL> Blue dots are small hotels , blue circles are medium hotels , purple circles are paid advertisers , I think . Green letters are metro-stations so you can easily get to any hotel you need : <URL> If you interested in some mobile application similar to Maps.Yandex , I recommend you <URL> . It can get your location and show interesting places around you . I works even without Internet connection , so sometimes is very useful : <URL>
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
end question
